---

title: 2-methylthiopyrrolidines and their use for modulating bacterial quorum sensing
abstract: Compounds of Formula (I) are disclosed herein and their use in inhibiting quorum sensing in bacteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09249095&OS=09249095&RS=09249095
owner: THE FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
number: 09249095
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---
The benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 497 811 filed Jun. 16 2011 is hereby claimed the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under grant number SC1CA138176 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Quorum sensing QS is a type of bacterial cell to cell signaling pathway mediated through the production release and detection of the small signaling molecules called autoinducers AIs reviewed in 1 . Such communication allows bacterial control of crucial functions in united communities for enhancement of symbiosis virulence antibiotic production biofilm formation and many other processes. The recent increase in prevalence of bacterial strains resistant to antibiotics emphasizes the need for the development of a new generation of antibacterial agents. As QS is utilized by number of pathogenic bacteria to direct virulence and biofilm formation inhibitors modulators of QS may serve as tools to study or intercept such community behaviors and might be beneficial as antibacterial agents 2 . One of the chemical signals or autoinducers AIs used by Gram negative bacteria are acyl homoserine lactones AHLs which are detected by their cognate regulator R proteins 1 .

The QS system recently reclassified as serves as the paradigm upon which all other QS systems are based. It is composed of a transcriptional regulator protein R and a synthetase I . The R protein is unstable unless it binds to the AHL which is produced by the synthetase. produces N 3 oxo hexanoyl homoserine lactone 3OC6HSL synthesizes N 3 hydroxybutanoil homoserine lactone HAI 1 and produces two distinct AHLs N 3 oxo dodecanoyl L homoserine lactone 3 OC12 HSL and N butyryl L homoserine lactone C4 HSL . produces a second signalling molecule a furnosyl borate diester termed autoinducer 2 AI 2 and a third CAI 1. CAI 1 has been identified in to be s 3 hydroxytridecan 4 one. also has a third QS signaling molecule 2 heptyl 3 hydroxy 4 quinolone PQS which is induced and repressed by the las and rhl systems respectively.

Over two decades several small molecules have been identified by many research groups as inhibitors of the AHL R protein complex. These are mostly AHL based structures with moderate changes on the acyl side chain and amide linkage. Some of the most potent inhibitors prepared by Geske and Blackwell are shown in 7 . Recently Meijler and co workers designed a ligand 3 which covalently modified LasR 8 . Since AHL is the pharmacophore present in the natural substrates AHL based inhibitors are likely to modulate R protein activation.

Studies of structural features other than the AHL scaffold as tools to understand the R type protein interaction with AHLs are limited although they might aid in rational design of QS inhibitors. Only a few examples of inhibitors with the altered lactone ring structure of AHL have been reported 9 12 . For example Smith et al reported 3 oxo C12 2 aminocyclohexanone 4 as a strong antagonist of LasR system 9 while Muh et al identified two LasR inhibitors having a phenyl and stetrazole ring e.g. 5 with IC50 in nM range 10 . It is noteworthy that thiolactone analogue of 1 showed inhibition of LuxR while the corresponding lactam caprolactam analogue was reported to lack LuxR binding 13 . Thus a need exists for new QS inhibitors.

Further provided herein are methods of inhibiting bacterial quorum sensing comprising contacting bacteria with a compound as disclosed herein or a compound as disclosed herein formulated in a composition. In some cases the bacteria are selected from and combinations thereof. In various cases the contacting comprises administering to a subject suffering from a bacterial infection. In some cases the subject is human. In some cases the subject is an animal.

Further contemplated is administering a second agent to the subject such as an antibiotic agent. Specific antibiotic agents contemplated include a penicillin a selexcid a cephalosporin a tetracycline a rifamycin gentamycin clindamycin a fluoroquinolone a monobactamer a carbapeneme a macrolide a polymyxin an aminoglycoside tobramycin a sulfonamide a fusidine a vancomycin an oxazolidinone a metronidazole a corticosteroid hydrocortisone triamcinolone betamethasone and combinations thereof. The second agent and the compound of formula I can be administered sequentially or at the same time. In some cases the second agent is administered before the compound of formula I while in other cases the second agent is administered after the compound of formula I . In some cases the second agent and the compound of formula I are co formulated.

Further provided herein are methods of treating a subject suffering from a bacterial infection comprising administering a compound as disclosed herein or a compound as disclosed herein formulated in a composition. Also contemplated is further administering a second agent as disclosed herein e.g. an antibiotic. In some cases the infection is a infection.

Also provided herein are methods of inhibiting biofilm formation comprising contacting bacteria with a compound as disclosed herein or a compound as disclosed herein formulated in a composition.

QS has been known to regulate a variety of cellular functions in many pathogenic bacteria including . The QS machinery including the two in LasI R and RhII R are based on the paradigm which includes a synthetase I and a regulator protein R . The signaling molecule synthesized in Gram negative bacteria is acyl homoserine lactone AHL which activates QS. In addition uses another signaling molecule autoinducer II AI 2 which is structurally different from AHLs to activate bioluminescence. However both bacteria use similar intermediates in synthesizing these signaling molecules S ribosylhomocysteine SRH and S adenosyl homocysteine SAH in and respectively. Since it is known that QS deficient strains are less pathogenic alternative treatments that target the QS system are being explored.

To explore further effects of non native AHL scaffold on QS novel lactam ligands were designed. Here optically pure lactams and cyclic azahemiacetals bearing alkylthiomethyl substituent with different length of carbon chain C3 C12 are reported which are capable of either inhibiting or in some cases inducing QS in . The lactam ring was chosen because it is a more stable isoster of lactone ring present in AHL inhibitors. Moreover the lactam and cyclic azahemiacetal ligands were further modified in a such way that they resemble S ribosyl L homocysteine which is known to regulate QS through the LuxS mediated biosynthesis of AI 2 1 14 16 in which the ribose oxygen is replaced with a nitrogen atom and the homocysteine unit is substituted with a simple alkylthiol chain. Described herein are analogs of SRH and SAH and their effect on and as determined by luminescence and a galactosidase assays. In particular disclosed herein are compounds of formula I 

The term alkyl used herein refers to a saturated or unsaturated straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group including but not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl tert butyl n hexyl and the like. Alkyls of one to six carbon atoms three to twenty three to twelve four to twenty four to twelve five to twenty five to twelve six to twenty six to twelve seven to twenty seven to twelve eight to twenty eight to twelve nine to twenty nine to twelve and ten to twenty are also contemplated. The term alkyl includes bridged alkyl i.e. a bicyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon group for example norbornyl adamantyl bicyclo 2.2.2 octyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl bicyclo 3.2.1 octyl or decahydronaphthyl. Alkyl groups optionally can be substituted for example with hydroxy OH halide thiol SH aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl and amino.

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon group e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl and cyclopentyl. Heterocycloalkyl is defined similarly as cycloalkyl except the ring contains one to three heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. Nonlimiting examples of heterocycloalkyl groups include piperidine tetrahydrofuran tetrahydropyran dihydrofuran morpholine thiophene and the like. Cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl groups can be saturated or partially unsaturated ring systems optionally substituted with for example one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkyleneOH C O NH NH oxo O aryl haloalkyl halo and OH. Heterocycloalkyl groups optionally can be further N substituted with alkyl hydroxyalkyl alkylenearyl or alkyleneheteroaryl.

As used herein the term aryl refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic group preferably a monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl or naphthyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four groups independently selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino COH COalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl chlorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl 2 4 methoxychlorophenyl and the like.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic or bicyclic ring system containing one or two aromatic rings and containing at least one nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom in an aromatic ring. Unless otherwise indicated a heteroaryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four substituents selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino COH COalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. In some cases the heteroaryl group is substituted with one or more of alkyl and alkoxy groups. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to thienyl furyl pyridyl oxazolyl quinolyl thiophenyl isoquinolyl indolyl triazinyl triazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl benzothiazolyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl and thiadiazolyl.

As used herein the term amino refers to a NRgroup where each R is independently hydrogen or alkyl e.g. NH NH alkyl or N alkyl . When the amino is substituted with two alkyl groups the alkyl groups can be the same e.g. NMe or different e.g. N Me iPr .

Of the analogs tested four demonstrated anti QS activity S 2 Oxopyrrolidin 5 yl methyl thiopropanol 5 Propylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one OMPP S 2 Oxopyrrolidin 5 yl methyl thiopropanol 5 Hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one OMHP S N Benzyl 3 4 dihyroxy 2 oxopyrrolidin 5 yl methyl L homocysteine BDOH and S 2 Hydroxypyrrolidin 5 yl methyl thiopropanol 5 Propylthiomethyl 2 hydroxy pyrrolidin HMPP . BDOH and HMPP exhibited a strong anti QS effect against . OMPP and OMHP had a dosed dependent inhibition on the expression of the lasI promoter of . The data presented herein demonstrates that the analogs described herein can be used to interrupt bacterial communication in difference bacteria and would be useful as an effective treatment for bacterial infections.

Compounds disclosed herein show selectivity between two QS systems acting as inhibitors against las signaling and moderate activators against rhl signaling possibly due to differences in the active sites of their cognate R proteins or transport of the native signaling molecule. Antagonism of las activity increased with the length of the alkylthio chain. Interestingly the cyclic azahemiacetal derivatives with shorter alkylthio chain were found to stimulate both QS systems at lower concentrations while strongly inhibiting at higher concentrations. The ribolactam and the corresponding cyclic azahemiacetal analogues inhibited las and stimulated rhl moderately. Although the mechanism of inhibition is still unknown it is plausible that the compounds act as competitive inhibitors by binding to the QS sensor or affect events downstream such as the binding of lasR or in some cases rhlR to the promoter. Affecting downstream events would require that the compound enter the cells which is unknown. Alternatively it is established that although the rhl signaling molecule C AHL diffuses freely transport of the las signaling molecule is more complex involving partitioning into the membrane and transport out of the cell by the MexAB OprM efflux pump 27 . Thus it is also possible that the compounds with longer side chains affect the membrane and that the las pathway is more sensitive to these changes. Given the central role the las and rhl QS pathways play in virulence inhibitors such as the ones described here have significant potential as therapeutics.

Asymmetric carbon atoms can be present. All such isomers including diastereomers and enantiomers as well as the mixtures thereof are intended to be included in the scope of the disclosure herein. In certain cases compounds can exist in tautomeric forms. All tautomeric forms are intended to be included in the scope of the disclosure herein. Likewise when compounds contain an alkenyl or alkenylene group there exists the possibility of cis and trans isomeric forms of the compounds. Both cis and trans isomers as well as the mixtures of cis and trans isomers are contemplated.

The salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the disclosed therapeutics may be prepared by reacting the appropriate base or acid with a stoichiometric equivalent of the therapeutic.

Acids commonly employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include inorganic acids such as hydrogen bisulfide hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydroiodic acid sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid as well as organic acids such as para toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid tartaric acid bitartaric acid ascorbic acid maleic acid besylic acid fumaric acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid formic acid glutamic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid lactic acid oxalic acid para bromophenylsulfonic acid carbonic acid succinic acid citric acid benzoic acid and acetic acid as well as related inorganic and organic acids. Such pharmaceutically acceptable salts thus include sulfate pyrosulfate bisulfate sulfite bisulfite phosphate monohydrogenphosphate dihydrogenphosphate metaphosphate pyrophosphate chloride bromide iodide acetate propionate decanoate caprylate acrylate formate isobutyrate caprate heptanoate propiolate oxalate malonate succinate suberate sebacate fumarate maleate butyne 1 4 dioate hexyne 1 6 dioate benzoate chlorobenzoate methylbenzoate dinitrobenzoate hydroxybenzoate methoxybenzoate phthalate terephthalate sulfonate xylene sulfonate phenylacetate phenylpropionate phenylbutyrate citrate lactate O hydroxybutyrate glycolate maleate tartrate methanesulfonate propanesulfonate naphthalene 1 sulfonate naphthalene 2 sulfonate mandelate and other salts. In one embodiment pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those formed with mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid and hydrobromic acid and especially those formed with organic acids such as maleic acid.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts may be formed with metals or amines such as alkali and alkaline earth metals or organic amines. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds may also be prepared with a pharmaceutically acceptable cation. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable cations are well known to those skilled in the art and include alkaline alkaline earth ammonium and quaternary ammonium cations. Carbonates or hydrogen carbonates are also possible. Examples of metals used as cations are sodium potassium magnesium ammonium calcium or ferric and the like. Examples of suitable amines include isopropylamine trimethylamine histidine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine dicyclohexylamine ethylenediamine N methylglucamine and procaine.

Similarly pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives e.g. esters metabolites hydrates solvates and prodrugs of the therapeutic may be prepared by methods generally known to those skilled in the art. Thus another embodiment provides compounds that are prodrugs of an active compound. In general a prodrug is a compound which is metabolized in vivo e.g. by a metabolic transformation such as deamination dealkylation de esterification and the like to provide an active compound. A pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug means a compound which is within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for pharmaceutical use in a patient without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like and effective for the intended use including a pharmaceutically acceptable ester as well as a zwitterionic form where possible of the therapeutic. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable ester refers to esters that hydrolyze in vivo and include those that break down readily in the human body to leave the parent compound or a salt thereof. Suitable ester groups include for example those derived from pharmaceutically acceptable aliphatic carboxylic acids particularly alkanoic alkenoic cycloalkanoic and alkanedioic acids in which each alkyl or alkenyl moiety advantageously has not more than 6 carbon atoms. Representative examples of particular esters include but are not limited to formates acetates propionates butyrates acrylates and ethylsuccinates. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug types are described in Higuchi and Stella Vol. 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series and in Roche ed. American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The compounds and compositions described herein may also include metabolites. As used herein the term metabolite means a product of metabolism of a compound of the embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt analog or derivative thereof that exhibits a similar activity in vitro or in vivo to a disclosed therapeutic. The compounds and compositions described herein may also include hydrates and solvates. As used herein the term solvate refers to a complex formed by a solute herein the therapeutic and a solvent. Such solvents for the purpose of the embodiments preferably should not negatively interfere with the biological activity of the solute. Solvents may be by way of example water ethanol or acetic acid.

The terms therapeutically effective amount and prophylactically effective amount as used herein refer to an amount of a compound sufficient to treat ameliorate or prevent the identified disease or condition or to exhibit a detectable therapeutic prophylactic or inhibitory effect. The effect can be detected by for example an improvement in clinical condition reduction in symptoms or by any of the assays or clinical diagnostic tests described herein. The precise effective amount for a subject will depend upon the subject s body weight size and health the nature and extent of the condition and the therapeutic or combination of therapeutics selected for administration. Therapeutically and prophylactically effective amounts for a given situation can be determined by routine experimentation that is within the skill and judgment of the clinician.

Dosages of the therapeutic can alternately be administered as a dose measured in mg kg. Contemplated mg kg doses of the disclosed therapeutics include about 0.001 mg kg to about 1000 mg kg. Specific ranges of doses in mg kg include about 0.1 mg kg to about 500 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 200 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg about 2 mg kg to about 50 mg kg and about 5 mg kg to about 30 mg kg.

As herein the compounds described herein may be formulated in pharmaceutical compositions with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier or diluent. The compound or composition comprising the compound is administered by any route that permits treatment of the disease or condition. One route of administration is oral administration. Additionally the compound or composition comprising the compound may be delivered to a patient using any standard route of administration including parenterally such as intravenously intraperitoneally intrapulmonary subcutaneously or intramuscularly intrathecally topically transdermally rectally orally nasally or by inhalation. Slow release formulations may also be prepared from the agents described herein in order to achieve a controlled release of the active agent in contact with the body fluids in the gastro intestinal tract and to provide a substantial constant and effective level of the active agent in the blood plasma. The crystal form may be embedded for this purpose in a polymer matrix of a biological degradable polymer a water soluble polymer or a mixture of both and optionally suitable surfactants. Embedding can mean in this context the incorporation of micro particles in a matrix of polymers. Controlled release formulations are also obtained through encapsulation of dispersed micro particles or emulsified micro droplets via known dispersion or emulsion coating technologies.

Administration may take the form of single dose administration or a compound as disclosed herein can be administered over a period of time either in divided doses or in a continuous release formulation or administration method e.g. a pump . However the compounds of the embodiments are administered to the subject the amounts of compound administered and the route of administration chosen should be selected to permit efficacious treatment of the disease condition.

In an embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are formulated with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipient such as carriers solvents stabilizers adjuvants diluents etc. depending upon the particular mode of administration and dosage form. The pharmaceutical compositions should generally be formulated to achieve a physiologically compatible pH and may range from a pH of about 3 to a pH of about 11 preferably about pH 3 to about pH 7 depending on the formulation and route of administration. In alternative embodiments the pH is adjusted to a range from about pH 5.0 to about pH 8. More particularly the pharmaceutical compositions may comprise a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of at least one compound as described herein together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Optionally the pharmaceutical compositions may comprise a combination of the compounds described herein or may include a second active ingredient useful in the treatment or prevention of bacterial infection e.g. anti bacterial or anti microbial agents.

Formulations e.g. for parenteral or oral administration are most typically solids liquid solutions emulsions or suspensions while inhalable formulations for pulmonary administration are generally liquids or powders. A pharmaceutical composition can also be formulated as a lyophilized solid that is reconstituted with a physiologically compatible solvent prior to administration. Alternative pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated as syrups creams ointments tablets and the like.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable excipient refers to an excipient for administration of a pharmaceutical agent such as the compounds described herein. The term refers to any pharmaceutical excipient that may be administered without undue toxicity.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are determined in part by the particular composition being administered as well as by the particular method used to administer the composition. Accordingly there exists a wide variety of suitable formulations of pharmaceutical compositions see e.g. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences .

Suitable excipients may be carrier molecules that include large slowly metabolized macromolecules such as proteins polysaccharides polylactic acids polyglycolic acids polymeric amino acids amino acid copolymers and inactive virus particles. Other exemplary excipients include antioxidants e.g. ascorbic acid chelating agents e.g. EDTA carbohydrates e.g. dextrin hydroxyalkylcellulose and or hydroxyalkylmethylcellulose stearic acid liquids e.g. oils water saline glycerol and or ethanol wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering substances and the like. Liposomes are also included within the definition of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

The pharmaceutical compositions described herein are formulated in any form suitable for an intended method of administration. When intended for oral use for example tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions non aqueous solutions dispersible powders or granules including micronized particles or nanoparticles emulsions hard or soft capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients particularly suitable for use in conjunction with tablets include for example inert diluents such as celluloses calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate disintegrating agents such as cross linked povidone maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as povidone starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

Formulations for oral use may be also presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example celluloses lactose calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with non aqueous or oil medium such as glycerin propylene glycol polyethylene glycol peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

In another embodiment pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated as suspensions comprising a compound of the embodiments in admixture with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient suitable for the manufacture of a suspension.

In yet another embodiment pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated as dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of a suspension by the addition of suitable excipients.

Excipients suitable for use in connection with suspensions include suspending agents e.g. sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents e.g. a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monoleate and thickening agents e.g. carbomer beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol . The suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives e.g. acetic acid methyl or n propyl p hydroxy benzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions may also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as olive oil or arachis oil a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin or a mixture of these. Suitable emulsifying agents include naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia and gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soybean lecithin esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids hexitol anhydrides such as sorbitan monoleate and condensation products of these partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monoleate. The emulsion may also contain sweetening and flavoring agents. Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents such as glycerol sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may also contain a demulcent a preservative a flavoring or a coloring agent.

Additionally the pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous emulsion or oleaginous suspension. This emulsion or suspension may be formulated by a person of ordinary skill in the art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents including those mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 2 propane diol.

The sterile injectable preparation may also be prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids e.g. oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

To obtain a stable water soluble dose form of a pharmaceutical composition a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein may be dissolved in an aqueous solution of an organic or inorganic acid such as 0.3 M solution of succinic acid or more preferably citric acid. If a soluble salt form is not available the compound may be dissolved in a suitable co solvent or combination of co solvents. Examples of suitable co solvents include alcohol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol 300 polysorbate 80 glycerin and the like in concentrations ranging from about 0 to about 60 of the total volume. In one embodiment the active compound is dissolved in DMSO and diluted with water.

The pharmaceutical composition may also be in the form of a solution of a salt form of the active ingredient in an appropriate aqueous vehicle such as water or isotonic saline or dextrose solution. Also contemplated are compounds which have been modified by substitutions or additions of chemical or biochemical moieties which make them more suitable for delivery e.g. increase solubility bioactivity palatability decrease adverse reactions etc. for example by esterification glycosylation PEGylation etc.

In some embodiments the compounds described herein may be formulated for oral administration in a lipid based formulation suitable for low solubility compounds. Lipid based formulations can generally enhance the oral bioavailability of such compounds.

As such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound described herein together with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient selected from the group consisting of medium chain fatty acids and propylene glycol esters thereof e.g. propylene glycol esters of edible fatty acids such as caprylic and capric fatty acids and pharmaceutically acceptable surfactants such as polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil.

In some embodiments cyclodextrins may be added as aqueous solubility enhancers. Exemplary cyclodextrins include hydroxypropyl hydroxyethyl glucosyl maltosyl and maltotriosyl derivatives of and cyclodextrin. A specific cyclodextrin solubility enhancer is hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin BPBC which may be added to any of the above described compositions to further improve the aqueous solubility characteristics of the compounds of the embodiments. In one embodiment the composition comprises about 0.1 to about 20 hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin more preferably about 1 to about 15 hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin and even more preferably from about 2.5 to about 10 hydroxypropyl o cyclodextrin. The amount of solubility enhancer employed will depend on the amount of the compound of the invention in the composition.

Some bacteria have a system by which they can monitor the density of their own population and control the expression of specific genes only when a certain population density has been reached. This ability to monitor cell density has been found in more than 20 different bacterial species and has been termed quorum sensing. Pathogenic bacteria use quorum sensing to turn on virulence pathways and form drug impervious communities called biofilms that are the basis of a myriad chronic infections. Over 80 of bacterial infections in humans involve the formation of biofilms as exemplified in lung infections by which is the primary cause of morbidity in cystic fibrosis patients.

The existence of quorum sensing was established in the early 1970s where experiments showed that bioluminescence of the bacterium is a function of cell density and that it is controlled by a small diffusible molecule later identified to be a N acyl homoserine lactone AHL namely N 3 oxohexanoyl L homoserine lactone.

The quorum sensing system of serves well as a basis for describing and understanding quorum sensing systems. It comprises a signal molecule synthase Luxl which produces the signal molecule AHL in casu N oxo hexanoyl L homoserine lactone from a precursor and a signal molecule dependent receptor protein LuxR . When the concentration of the signal molecule reaches a threshold level i.e. when the population of the bacterium reaches a certain level the signal molecule interacts with the receptor protein to effect an activation of it. The LuxR AHL complex binds to the lux box in the promoter region of the gene which in turn initiates the transcription of luxI the gene encoding LuxI and other genes responsible for bioluminescence. The LuxI production thus generates a positive autoregulatory loop. The signal molecules are often referred to as autoinducers.

Many Gram negative bacteria have been shown to posses one or more quorum sensing systems homologues to the LuxR LuxI system just described for and in particular appears to have at least two quorum sensing systems i.e. las and rhl. The las system comprises a signal molecule generating synthase LasI the major product of which is N 3 oxo dodecanoyl homoserine lactone OdDHL and a receptor protein LasR. The rhl system comprises a signal generating synthase RhlI the major product of which is N butyryl homoserine lactone and a receptor protein RhlI. The las system modulates the expression of LasI RhlI LasR and virulence factors such as elastase staphylolytic protease alkaline protease exotoxin and neuraminidase and biofilm differentiation. The rhl system modulates the expression of RhlI rhamnolipid and virulence factors such as alkaline protease elastase haemolysin pyocyanin and hydrogen cyanide. Moreover in vitro immunoassays on human leukocytes have shown that OdDHL possesses immunomodulatory properties e.g. inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation and down regulation of tumor necrosis factor alpha production and of IL 12 production Telford et al. Infect. Immun 66 36 1998 . In addition OdDHL has been demonstrated to activate T cells in vivo to produce the inflammatory cytokine interferon Smith et al. J. Immunol. 167 366 2001 and thereby potentially promote a Th2 dominated response leading to increased tissue damage and inflammation.

An important effect of a quorum sensing system is that e.g. virulence factors are only excreted when the population has reached a certain density. This is probably of vital importance for invading organisms because they at low density are more susceptible to the defense systems of the host. If an invading organism unveiled its presence by excreting virulence factors when still at a low population density they would be more easily targeted by the host s defense mechanisms A quorum sensing system endows bacteria with a capability to reach a critical population density whereby they overwhelm the host s immune defense and establish an infection.

The rationale behind quorum sensing based drugs is multifaceted. By preventing the excretion of virulence factors the pathogenicity of the invading organism is diminished or even eliminated. Furthermore as described above the signal molecules may themselves have an adverse effect on the immune system of the host so inhibiting the production of signal molecules will have a beneficial effect. Finally the development of persistent biofilms in some bacteria e.g. is also affected by the quorum sensing system Hentzer et al. Microbiology 148 87 2002 . Although the biofilm itself may not be virulent it protects the invading organism from the defense systems of the host. By preventing the formation of persistent biofilms the invading organism is left exposed to the defense systems of the host and the host may thus be able to clear the infection on its own. Alternatively the infectious organism will be left more receptive to treatment with conventional antibiotics. It is thus envisaged that an embodiment of the invention involving a combination treatment wherein a quorum sensing inhibitor of the present invention and an antibiotic is administered to a patient will be particular beneficial for certain types of infections.

Inhibiting the quorum sensing system as such will not have a toxic effect on the bacterium and while not wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that this will have an impact on the build up of resistance towards such drugs. Resistance to antibiotics is generated under the imposition of a selection pressure favoring mutants that are capable of tolerating the toxins. Quorum sensing inhibitors as such can be non toxic and they are therefore not expected to impose a selection pressure on the bacteria. As a consequence the formation of resistant strains is expected to be at a minimum i.e. the background mutational rate. Toxicity may be quantified in a simple assay wherein the bacterium is left to grow planktonic in the absence or presence of a test compound. Bacterial cultures are grown in ABt minimal medium supplemented with 0.5 casamino acids and 0.5 glucose referred to as growth medium . The ABt medium contains NH SO 2 g L NaHPO 2HO 6 g L KHPO 3 g L NaCl 3 g L MgCl 93 mg L CaCl 11 mg l and thiamine 0.5 mg L . Culture conditions The 20 ml cultures were grown in 100 ml conical flasks in an orbital air shaker at 200 rpm at 37 C. The cultures are inoculated from overnight cultures in fresh medium at an optical density of approximately OD 0.2. The cultures are grown to OD 1.0 then diluted in fresh test medium to OD 0.2. Growth is monitored by ODevery 5 min. Compounds which at concentration lower than 10 mM lower than 1 mM lower than 500 M or lower than 100 M cause an increase of the doubling time during the exponential growth phase relative to the doubling time in the absence of the compound by more than 5 e.g. 10 e.g. more than 30 such as more than 60 such as more than 95 are said to be toxic.

The absence of toxicity is also believed to reduce the number of adverse effects. Treatments involving traditional antibiotics are often connected with unpleasant side effect e.g. diarrhea caused by the effect of the antibiotics on the beneficial bacteria present in the gut. As quorum sensing inhibitors are non toxic they are not expected to affect other bacteria than those exploiting a quorum sensing system and the number of adverse effects is thus likely to be reduced.

Different assays are described in the literature by which to assess if a given compound is a quorum sensing inhibitor. WO 00 06177 discloses a method that assesses the extent to which the activity of the signal molecule synthase is modulated by a given test compound. The method provides a labeled homoserine lactone substrate allows the reaction to proceed to completion and determines the extent of the homoserine lactone substrate to homoserine lactone conversion in the absence and presence of the test compound. Wu et al. Microbiol 146 2481 2000 and Andersen et al. Appl. Envirom. Microbiol. 67 575 2001 describe how part of the quorum sensing system i.e. the luxR and the luxI promoter from may be fused with a gene encoding unstable versions Andersen et al. Appl Environ Microbiol 64 2240 1998 of the green fluorescence protein GFP . This fusion referred to as the LuxR QS monitor may be incorporated into bacterial strains which if exposed to a signal molecule will produce GFP which can be detected by epifluorescence spectroscopy. WO 01 18248 discloses the use of other reporter genes than GFP e.g. luciferase. The quorum sensing inhibiting effect of a given compound may also be quantified in an assay wherein the lasR and the lasB promoter from fused with the gene encoding unstable GFP referred to as the LasR QS monitor is incorporated into the chromosome of or a plasmid vehicle as disclosed in Hentzer et al Microbiol 148 87 2002.

Manefield et al Microbiology 148 1119 2002 describe a method to scientifically demonstrate and quantify the QSI activity of compounds. into which the LuxR QS monitor was incorporated was inoculated from an overnight culture in fresh culture medium at a density of approximately OD 1 and incubated at 37 C. for approximately 30 min. Aliquots 200 l of this culture were distributed to the wells of microtiter dishes into which a known signal molecule namely 3 oxo hexanoyl L homoserine lactone OHHL at 25 50 and 100 nM and the test compound had been pipetted. After two hours of incubation at 37 C. the relative fluorescence units RFU of each sample were captured with in Wallac Victor2 1420 Multilabel Counter using a 485 nm excitation filter and a 535 nm emission filter. The RFU values obtained for each concentration were used to calculate an inhibition index expressing the quantity of test compound per quantity of OHHL required to inhibit LuxR controlled P GFP expression to a given level X . This is termed the IDX value. The three values obtained one for each OHHL concentration were plotted as a function of OHHL concentration and the gradient of the best straight line fitted to the three points and passing through the origin was taken as the inhibition index IIX . The IIX expresses the number of mol of test compound per nanomole OHHL required to inhibit expression of fluorescence to X of the untreated sample. A low IIX value may therefore be interpreted as to reflect a compound with high efficacy. Test compounds with IIX lower than 10 lower than 5 lower than 1 lower than 0.5 lower than 0.1 or lower than 0.05 for X higher than 10 such as higher than 20 higher than 40 higher than 60 higher than 95 exhibit quorum sensing inhibition.

The assays discussed above use parts of the quorum sensing system from particular bacteria incorporated into particular bacteria. Despite that it has been found that such reporter systems function in a number of different bacteria and that they are responsive to a variety of quorum sensing inhibitors Manefield et al Microbiology 148 1119 2002 . The applied assay is therefore useful to identify compounds which inhibit the quorum sensing system in a wide range of bacteria e.g.

Gram negative bacteria represent numerous relevant pathogens using quorum sensing pathways. Besides other Gram negative quorum sensing bacteria include and

Biofilms are dense extracellular polymeric matrices in which bacteria embed themselves. Biofilms allow bacteria to create a microenvironment that attaches the bacteria to the host surface and which contains excreted enzymes and other factors allowing the bacteria to evade host immune responses including antibodies and cellular immune responses. Such biofilms can also exclude antibiotics. Further biofilms can be extremely resistant to removal and disinfection. For individuals suffering from cystic fibrosis the formation of biofilms by is eventually fatal. Other bacteria also respond to quorum sensing signals by producing biofilms. Biofilms are inherent in dental plaques and are found on surgical instruments food processing and agriculture equipment and water treatment and power generating machinery and equipment.

Thus provided herein is a method of treating a disorder associated with quorum sensing or biofilm formation in a mammalian subject the method comprising administering a compound of formula I as disclosed herein to the subject in an amount effective to disrupt quorum sensing or biofilm formation in the subject. The subject can be human animal or plant. In some specific cases the subject is human. In some specific cases the subject is an animal. Specifically contemplated animal subjects include fish and amphibians. In some specific cases the subject is a plant.

In various embodiments the disorder associated with biofilm formation in the subject is selected from the group consisting of cystic fibrosis dental caries periodonitis otitis media muscular skeletal infections necrotizing fasciitis biliary tract infection osteomyelitis bacterial prostatitis endocarditis native valve endocarditis cystic fibrosis pneumonia meloidosis or skin lesions associated with bullous impetigo atopic dermatitis and pemphigus foliaceus or implanted device related infections. In some embodiments the condition is a nosocomial infection including but not limited to pneumonia or an infection associated with sutures exit sites arteriovenous sites scleral buckles contact lenses urinary catheter cystitis peritoneal dialysis CAPD peritonitis IUDs endrotracheal tubes Hickman catheters central venous catheters mechanical heart valves vascular grafts biliary stent blockage and orthopedic devices.

Also provided is a method of modulating biofilm formation on a surface the method comprising contacting the surface with a compound of formula I as disclosed herein in an amount effective for disrupt or inhibit biofilm formation on the surface. In one embodiment the surface is an inanimate surface. Exemplary inanimate surfaces include but are not limited to metal glass plastic wood and stone surfaces. In another embodiment the surface is an animate surface. Exemplary animate surfaces include but are not limited to mammalian tissues mammalian membranes mammalian skin.

As used herein the term pathogenic bacterium or pathogenic bacteria refers to both gram negative and gram positive bacterial cells capable of infecting and causing disease in a mammalian host as well as producing infection related symptoms in the infected host such as fever or other signs of inflammation intestinal symptoms respiratory symptoms dehydration and the like.

In some embodiments and without limitation the bacteria is of a genus selected from the group consisting of and . For example in some embodiments and without limitation the bacteria is of a species selected from the group consisting of and

Also provided is a method of treating a disorder associated with QS in a mammalian subject resistant to treatment with a standard of care anti bacterial therapeutic comprising administering to the subject a compound of formula I as disclosed herein in an amount effective to inhibit QS in the bacteria causing the infection.

Contemplated bacterial infections include but are not limited to bacteremia septicemia endo and pericarditis sinusitis wound infection burn wounds upper respiratory tract infection urinary tract infection gastroenteritis intra abdominal infections arthritis pseudotuberculosis chronic bronchitis pneumonia cerebral pulmonary and skin lesions cerebral and liver abscesses meningitis dermatitis or folliculitis necrotizing fasciitis cellulitis urinary tract infections Glander s disease osteomylitis enterocolitis contact lens associated keritis and conjunctivitis. The treatment may also be used to treat infections immunocompromised individuals such as those with cancer and acquied immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS . These compounds may also be useful in treating disorders associated with biofilm formation in patients with cystic fibrosis dental caries periodonitis otititis media muscular skeletal infections necrotizing fasciitis biliary tract infection osteomyelitis bacterial prostatitis endocarditis native valve eendocarditis cystic fibrosis pneumonia infections associated with chronic granulomatous meloidosis or skin lesions associated with bullous impetigo atopic dermatitis and pemphigus foliaceus or implanted device related infections. It may also be used to treat nosocomial infections including pneumonia infection associated with sutures exit sites arteriovenous sites scleral buckles contact lenses urinary catheter cystitis peritoneal dialysis peritonitis IUDs endotracheal tubes Hickman catheters central venous catheters mechanical heart valves vascular grafts biliary stent blockage and orthopedice devices.

The methods of the embodiments also include the use of a compound or compounds as described herein together with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of disease conditions. Thus for example the combination of active ingredients may be 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by any other combination therapy regimen known in the art. When delivered in alternation therapy the methods described herein may comprise administering or delivering the active ingredients sequentially e.g. in separate solution emulsion suspension tablets pills or capsules or by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in simultaneous therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together. Various sequences of intermittent combination therapy may also be used.

In some cases a compound disclosed herein is administered and or formulated with a second therapeutic e.g. an antibacterial agent.

Antibacterial agents contemplated for use include without limitation antibiotics of the lactam group such as natural penicillins semisynthetic penicillins natural cephalosporins semisynthetic cephalosporins cephamycins 1 oxacephems clavulanic acids penems carbapenems nocardicins monobactams tetracyclines anhydrotetracyclines anthracyclines aminoglycosides nucleosides such as N nucleosides C nucleosides carbocyclic nucleosides blasticidin S macrolides such as 12 membered ring macrolides 14 membered ring macrolides 16 membered ring macrolides ansamycins peptides such as bleomycins gramicidins polymyxins bacitracins large ring peptide antibiotics containing lactone linkages actinomycins amphomycin capreomycin distamycin enduracidins mikamycin neocarzinostatin stendomycin viomycin virginiamycin cycloheximide cycloserine variotin sarkomycin A novobiocin griseofulvin chloramphenicol mitomycins fumagillin monensins pyrroInitrin fosfomycin fusidic acid D p hydroxyphenyl glycine D phenylglycine enediynes benzylpenicillin potassium procaine benzathine phenoxymethylpenicillin potassium phenethicillin potassium propicillin carbenicillin disodium phenyl sodium indanyl sodium sulbenicillin ticarcillin disodium methicillin sodium oxacillin sodium cloxacillin sodium dicloxacillin flucloxacillin ampicillin mezlocillin piperacillin sodium amoxicillin ciclacillin hectacillin sulbactam sodium talampicillin hydrochloride bacampicillin hydrochloride pivmecillinam cephalexin cefaclor cephaloglycin cefadroxil cephradine cefroxadine cephapirin sodium cephalothin sodium cephacetrile sodium cefsulodin sodium cephaloridine cefatrizine cefoperazone sodium cefamandole vefotiam hydrochloride cefazolin sodium ceftizoxime sodium cefotaxime sodium cefinenoxime hydrochloride cefuroxime ceftriaxone sodium ceftazidime cefoxitin cefinetazole cefotetan latamoxef clavulanic acid imipenem aztreonam tetracycline chlortetracycline hydrochloride demethylchlortetracycline oxytetracycline methacycline doxycycline rolitetracycline minocycline daunorubicin hydrochloride doxorubicin aclarubicin kanamycin sulfate bekanamycin tobramycin gentamycin sulfate dibekacin amikacin micronomicin ribostamycin neomycin sulfate paromomycin sulfate streptomycin sulfate dihydrostreptomycin destomycin A hygromycin B apramycin sisomicin netilmicin sulfate spectinomycin hydrochloride astromicin sulfate validamycin kasugamycin polyoxin blasticidin S erythromycin erythromycin estolate oleandomycin phosphate tracetyloleandomycin kitasamycin josamycin spiramycin tylosin ivermectin midecamycin bleomycin sulfate peplomycin sulfate gramicidin S polymyxin B bacitracin colistin sulfate colistinmethanesulfonate sodium enramycin mikamycin virginiamycin capreomycin sulfate viomycin enviomycin vancomycin actinomycin D neocarzinostatin bestatin pepstatin monensin lasalocid salinomycin amphotericin B nystatin natamycin trichomycin mithramycin lincomycin clindamycin clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride flavophospholipol cycloserine pecilocin griseofulvin chloramphenicol chloramphenicol palmitate mitomycin C pyrroInitrin fosfomycin fusidic acid bicozamycin tiamulin or siccanin. In some cases the second therapeutic agent blocks virulence products. In such cases the bacteria is prevented from secreting its virulence factors toxins etc. and the immune system can clear the bacteria. See e.g. Lin et al. 2010 Sep. 15 501 2 214 20. Epub 2010 Jun. 15 Darby et al. 2010 July 65 7 1424 7. Epub 2010 Apr. 30 Bryk et al 2010 Mar. 2 49 8 1616 27 Lin et al. 2009 Oct. 1 461 7264 621 6. Epub 2009 Sep. 16 de Carvalho et al. 2009 Oct. 8 52 19 5789 92 Nathan et al. Edinb . 2008 August 88 Suppl 1 S25 33 Bryk et al. 2008 Mar. 13 3 3 137 45 Casenghi et al. 2007 Nov. 6 4 11 e293 Hu et al. 2006 March 59 5 1417 28 and Kline et al. 2008 Nov. 27 51 22 7065 74.

Further contemplated are antibacterial agents selected from acedisulfone aceturate acetyl sulfametossipirazine acetyl sulfamethoxypyrazine acranil albendazole alexidine amatadine ambazone amdinocillin amikacin p aminosalicyclic acid hydrazine amoxicillin ampicillin anisomycin apalcillin apicyclin apramycin arbekacin argininsa aspoxicillin azidamfenicol azidocillin azithromycin azlocillin aztreonam bacampicillin benzoylpas benzyl penicillin acid benzyl sulfamide bicozamycin bipenam brodimoprim capreomycin carbenicillin carbomycin cafazedone carindacillin carumonam cefcapene pivoxil cefaclor cefazedone cefazolin cefbuperazone cefclidin cefdinir cefditoren cefixime cefinenoxime cefinetazole cefminox cefodizime cefonicid cefoperazone ceforanide cefotaxime cefotetan cefotiam cefoxitin cefozopran cefpimizole cefpriamide cefpirome cefpodoxime proxetil cefprozil cefroxadine cefsulodin ceftazidime cefteram ceftezole ceftibuten ceftiofur ceftizoxime ceftriaxone cefuroxime cefuzonam cephacetrile sodium cephadrine cephalexin cephaloglycin cephaloridine cephalosporin C cephalothin cephapirin sodium cephradine chloramphenicol chlorotetracycline cinoxacin ciprofloxacin claritromycin clavulanic acid clinafloxacin clindamycin clofazimine clofoctal clometocillin clomocycline cloxacillin cloxyquin cyclacilline cycloserine danoflaxcin dapsone deoxycycline deoxydihydrostreptomycin dibekacin dicloxacillin difloxacin dihydrostreptomycin dimetridazole diminazene dirirtomycin doripenam eflornithine enoxacin enrofloxacin enviomycin epicillin erythromycin etacillin ethambutol ethionamide famciclovir fenbecillin fleroxacin flomoxef floxacillin flumequine furonazide fortimycin furazolium chloride gentamycin glyconiazide grepafloxacin guamecycline halofuginone hetacillin homidium ipronidazole isoniazide iosamycin inosine lauroguadine lenampicillin levofloxin lincomycin lomefloxacin loracarbef lymecyclin mafenide mebendazole meclocyclin meropenem metampicillin metacicline methacycline methicillin sodium metronidazole 4 methylsulfamoyl sulfanilanilide mezlocillin meziocillin micronomycin midecamycin A minocycline miocamycin miokamycin morfazinamide moxalactam mupirocin myxin nadifloxacin nalidixic acid negramycin neomycin netlimycin nifurfoline nifurpirinol nifurprazine nimorazole nitroxoline norfloxacin novobiocin ofloxacin oleandomycin opiniazide oxacillin oxophenarsine oxolinic acid oxytetracycline panipenam paromycin pazufloxacin pefloxacin penicillin G potassium salt penicillin N penicillin O penicillin V penethamate hydroiodide pentamidine phenamidine phenethicillin potassium salt phenyl aminosalicyclate pipacycline pipemidic acid piperacillin pirlimycin piromidic acid pivampicillin pivcefalexin profiromycin propamidine propicillin protionamide puraltadone puromycin pyrazinamide pyrimethamine quinacillin quinacrine quinapyramine quintine ribostamycin rifabutine rifamide rifampin rifamycin rifanpin rifapentine rifaxymine ritipenem rokitamycin rolitetracycline rosamycin rufloxacin salazosulfadimidine salinazid sancycline sarafloxacin sedacamycin secnidazole sisomycin sparfloxacin spectinomycin spiramycin spiramycin I spiramycin II spiramycin III stilbamidine streptomycin streptonicizid sulbactam sulbenicillin succisulfone sulfanilamide sulfabenzamide sulfacetamide sulfachloropyridazine sulfachrysoidine sulfacytine sulfadiazine sulfadicramide sulfadimethoxin sulfadoxine sulfadrazine sulfaetidol sulfafenazol sulfaguanidine sulfaguanole sulfalene sulfamerazine sulfameter sulfamethazine sulfamethizole sulfamethomidine sulfamethoxazole sulfamethoxypyridazine sulfamethylthiazol sulfamethylthiazole sulfametrole sulfamidochrysoidine sulfamoxole sulfanilamide 4 sulfanilamido salicylic acid 4 4 sulfanilybenzylamine p sulfanilylbenzylamine 2 p sulfinylanilinoethanol sulfanilylurea sulfoniazide sulfaperine sulfaphenazole sulfaproxyline sulfapyrazine sulfapyridine sulfathiazole sulfaethidole sulfathiourea sulfisomidine sulfasomizole sulfasymazine sulfisoxazole 4 4 sulfinyldianiline N sulfanilylsulfanilamide N sulfanilyl 3 4 xylamide sultamicillin talampicillin tambutol taurolidine teiclplanin temocillin tetracycline tetroxoprim thiabendazole thiazolsulfone tibezonium iodide ticarcillin tigemonam tinidazole tobramycin tosufloxacin trimethoprim troleandromycin trospectomycin trovafloxacin tubercidine miokamycin oleandomycin troleandromycin vancomycin verazide viomycin virginiamycin and zalcitabine.

The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following examples which detail exemplary embodiments of the invention. They should not however be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. All citations throughout the disclosure are hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

5 Propylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 7a 5S . Procedure A. Propanethiol 50 L 42 mg 0.55 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of NaH 35 mg 0.875 mmol 60 mineral oil in dry DMF 1 mL under Ar atmosphere at 0 C. After 10 min till gas evolution has ceased solution of compound 6 17 5S 82 mg 0.46 mmol in dry DMF 1 mL was added dropwise and after 15 min the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 12 h the resulting mixture was quenched with water at 0 C. volatiles were evaporated and the residue was column chromatographed EtOAc 10 MeOH EtOAc to give 7a 5S 77 mg 96 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.98 t J 7.3 Hz 3H 1.60 sx J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.76 1.87 m 1H 2.25 2.34 m 1H 2.34 2.45 m 2H 2.52 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.54 dd J 7.7 13.2 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 5.5 13.2 Hz 1H 3.80 quint J 5.5 Hz 1H 6.73 br. s 1H C NMR 13.4 23.1 26.6 30.2 34.7 38.6 53.9 178.0 MS APCI m z 174 MH . HRMS AP ESI m z calcd for CHNNaOS M Na 196.0772 found 196.0779.

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 5 propylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 8a 5S . Procedure B. DMAP 114 mg 0.93 mmol and Boc O 398 mg 1.82 mmol were added to a stirred solution of compound 7a 77 mg 0.445 mmol in CHCl 2 mL at ambient temperature under Ar atmosphere. After 48 h the reaction mixture was quenched with HO 5 mL and partitioned between CHCl NaHCO HO. The organic layer was washed brine dried MgSO and evaporated. The residue was column chromatographed 30 40 EtOAc hexane to give 8a 5S 107 mg 88 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.95 t J 7.3 Hz 3H 1.50 s 9H 1.58 sx J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.96 2.04 m 1H 2.06 2.17 m 1H 2.40 ddd J 2.6 9.6 17.9 Hz 1H 2.50 dt J 4.9 7.3 Hz 2H 2.58 2.67 m 1H 2.60 dd J 9.2 13.5 Hz 1H 2.86 ddd J 0.5 2.8 13.5 Hz 1H 4.20 4.27 m 1H C NMR 13.3 21.9 23.1 28.0 31.2 34.8 35.4 57.5 83.1 149.8 174.2 MS ESI m z 274 10 MH 215 100 MH 59 .

5 Propylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 10a 5S . Procedure C. LiEtBH 1M soln in THF 0.98 mL 0.98 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 8a 107 mg 0.39 mmol in CHCl 3 mL at 78 C. under Natmosphere. After 30 min the reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 4 mL and was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned EtOAc NaHCO HO washed brine and dried MgSO . The resulting oil was chromatographed 30 40 EtOAc hexane to give N tert butoxycarbonyl 5 propylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 9a 5S 104 mg 96 as a colorless oil of the mixture of anomers rotamers MS ESI m z 274 10 M 1 258 100 M 17 . Procedure D. Compound 9a 104 mg 0.37 mmol in TFA 4.0 mL was stirred at rt for 2 h. Volatiles were evaporated to give 10a 62 mg 96 as a light yellow oil of a mixture of isomers accompanied by 25 of the open aldehyde form H NMR 8.89 s 0.25H and C NMR 180.8 MS ESI m z 158 100 M 17 .

Structure of compound 10a was additionally confirmed by conversion to the corresponding O benzyloxime derivative with benzylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 6 equiv. in anhydrous pyridine MS ESI m z 281 60 MH 158 100 M BnONH APCI m z 281 100 MH .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 3 4 dihydroxy 3 4 O isopropylidene 5 methanesulfonyloxy methyl pyrrolidin 2 one 13 3R 4R 5R . Step a. Triethylamine 93 L mg 67 mg 0.66 mmol and MsCl 25 L 38 mg 0.33 mmol were added dropwise to stirred solution of 11 20 60 mg 0.22 mmole in anhydrous CHCl 6 mL at 0 C. ice bath . After 5 min ice bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 30 min. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO HO and was extracted with CHCl. The organic layer was washed brine dried MgSO and evaporated to give N tert butoxycarbonyl 1 4 dideoxy 1 4 imino 2 3 O isopropylidene 5 O methanesulfonyl D ribitol 12 73 mg 96 as a mixture 3 2 of two rotamers of sufficient purity to be directly used for next step see SI for spectral data . Step b. RuO HO 8.5 mg 0.064 mmol was added to a stirred solution of NaIO 172 mg 0.96 mmol in HO 1 mL at ambient temperature. After 5 min a solution of 12 80 mg 0.32 mmol in EtOAc 1 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was continued to stir for 12 h. HO 20 mL and EtOAc 20 mL were added and the separated aqueous layer was furthermore extracted with EtOAc 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed brine dried MgSO and evaporated. The residue was column chromatographed EtOAc to give 13 78 mg 95 as a colorless oil H NMR 1.37 s 3H 1.44 s 3H 1.54 s 9H 3.01 s 3H 4.39 4.43 m 2H 4.58 d J 5.45 Hz 1H 4.64 dd J 11.2 3.1 Hz 1H 4.70 d J 5.45 Hz 1H C NMR 25.6 27.0 28.0 37.7 59.2 67.0 74.5 77.5 84.7 112.8 149.7 170.2 MS APCI m z 298 100 MH Boc MeOH .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 3 4 dihydroxy 3 4 O isopropylidene 5 hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 14 3R 4R 5S . Treatment of 13 60 mg 0.16 mmol in dry DMF 0.5 mL with sodium hexathiolate generated from hexanethiol 46.8 L 0.33 mmol NaH 14 mg 0.35 mmol 60 mineral oil in dry DMF 0.5 mL by Procedure A column chromatography 5 10 MeOH EtOAc gave 14 25 mg 40 as a colorless oil and N Boc deprotected 14 24 mg 38 as a white crystalline solid. Compound 14 had H NMR 0.81 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.16 1.27 m 6H 1.30 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.44 1.59 m 11H 2.36 2.50 m 2H 2.76 dd J 6.2 14.4 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 2.7 14.4 Hz 1H 4.31 dd J 2.7 6.2 Hz 1H 4.38 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.78 d J 5.5 Hz 1H C NMR 14.0 22.5 25.5 27.0 28.0 28.3 29.6 31.3 33.7 33.9 60.8 76.1 77.6 83.9 112.3 149.8 171.0 MS APCI m z 288 100 MH Boc . N Boc deprotected 14 had H NMR 0.88 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.25 1.36 m 6H 1.38 s 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.56 1.62 m 2H 2.52 2.75 m 3H 2.73 dd J 5.9 13.4 Hz 1H 3.81 t J 6.1 Hz 1H 4.50 d J 5.9 Hz 1H 4.69 d J 5.9 Hz 1H 5.94 s 1H C NMR 14.0 29.7 22.5 28.5 31.4 25.6 26.9 33.2 33.7 58.0 76.6 79.2 112.7 173.2 MS APCI m z 288 100 MH .

3 4 Dihydroxy 5 hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 16 3R 4R 5S . TFA HO 1 mL 9 1 was added to 14 or N Boc deprotected 14 22 mg 0.07 mmol and the resulting solution was stirred at 0 C. for 3 h. Evaporation of volatiles gave light yellow oil that was column chromatographed 5 10 MeOH EtOAc to give 16 12 mg 63 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.87 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.24 1.39 m 6H 1.52 1.59 m 2H 2.50 2.55 m 3H 2.73 dd J 5.5 13.6 Hz 1H 3.71 t J 6.4 Hz 1H 4.21 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.11 s 1H C NMR 14.0 29.6 14.1 22.5 31.4 32.7 35.3 59.9 69.8 71.8 176.0 MS APCI m z 248 100 MH .

3 4 Dihydroxy 5 hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 20 3R 4R 5S . Treatment of 14 40 mg 0.1 mmol in THF 1 mL with LiEtBH 1M THF 0.26 mL 0.26 mmol by procedure C column chromatography 10 20 EtOAc hexane gave N tert butoxycarbonyl 3 4 dihydroxy 3 4 O isopropylidene 5 hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 18 3R 4R 5S 39 mg 97 as a colorless oil of the mixture of isomers MS ESI m z 389 100 M . Deprotection of 18 39 mg 0.1 mmol with TFA HO 0.9 0.1 mL by Procedure D gave a light yellow oil that was column chromatographed 5 10 MeOH EtOAc to give 20 22 mg 88 as a light yellow oil. H NMR showed a mixture of isomers accompanied by the open aldehyde form. MS APCI m z 230 40 MH 232 100 M 17 .

Synthetic procedures and characterization data for compounds 7b d 8b d 10b d 12 15 17 and 21 is as follows 

5 Hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 7b 5S . Treatment of 6 17 5S 823 mg 4.62 mmol in dry DMF 6 mL with a thiolate solution in dry DMF 6 mL generated from hexanethiol 682 L 573 mg 4.86 mmol and NaH 204 mg 5.09 mmol 60 mineral oil by Procedure A column chromatography 80 EtOAc hexane 5 MeOH EtOAc gave 7b 5S 932 mg 94 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.90 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.24 1.33 m 4H 1.33 1.42 m 2H 1.58 quint J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.78 1.87 m 1H 2.27 2.46 m 3H 2.53 dd J 8.0 13.4 Hz 1H 2.54 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.70 dd J 5.3 13.2 Hz 1H 3.81 quint J 6.6 Hz 1H 6.47 br. s 1H C NMR 14.0 22.5 26.8 28.5 29.7 30.1 31.4 32.7 38.7 53.8 177.7 MS ESI m z 216 100 M .

5 Nonylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 7c 5S . Treatment of 6 17 5S 458 mg 2.58 mmol in dry DMF 3 mL with thiolate solution in dry DMF 7 mL generated from nonanethiol 510 L 433 mg 2.71 mmol and NaH 114 mg 2.84 mmol 60 mineral oil in dry DMF 7 mL by Procedure A column chromatography 80 EtOAc hexane EtOAc gave 7c 5S 652 mg 98 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.86 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.19 1.29 m 10H 1.29 1.38 m 2H 1.54 quint J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.75 1.85 m 1H 2.23 2.43 m 3H 2.51 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 2.54 dd J 7.4 13.2 Hz 1H 2.65 dd J 5.8 13.2 Hz 1H 3.78 quint J 6.5 Hz 1H 6.97 br. s 1H C NMR 14.1 22.6 26.6 28.8 29.2 29.2 29.4 29.8 30.1 31.8 32.7 38.6 53.9 178.0 MS ESI m z 258 100 M .

5 Dodecylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 7d 5S . Treatment of 6 17 5S 448 mg 2.52 mmol in dry DMF 3 mL with thiolate soln in dry DMF 7 mL generated from dodecanethiol 634 L 535 mg 2.65 mmol and NaH 110 mg 2.77 mmol 60 mineral oil in dry DMF 7 mL by Procedure A column chromatography 80 EtOAc hexane EtOAc gave 7d 5S 637 mg 85 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.88 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.21 1.32 m 16H 1.32 1.40 m 2H 1.57 quint J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.77 1.87 m 1H 2.26 2.45 m 3H 2.53 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.54 dd J 7.8 13.2 Hz 1H 2.68 dd J 5.4 13.2 Hz 1H 3.80 quint J 6.6 Hz 1H 6.64 br. s 1H C NMR 14.1 22.7 26.7 28.8 29.2 29.3 29.5 29.6 29.6 29.6 29.8 30.1 31.9 32.7 38.7 53.8 177.7 MS ESI m z 300 100 MH .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 5 hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 8b 5S . Treatment of 7b 311 mg 1.45 mmol in CHCl 6 mL with DMAP 185 mg 1.52 mmol and Boc O 746 mg 3.42 mmol by procedure B column chromatography 20 40 EtOAc hexane gave 8b 5S 429 mg 94 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.89 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.25 1.33 m 4H 1.34 1.42 m 2H 1.55 s 9H 1.59 quint J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.01 2.08 m 1H 2.10 2.21 m 1H 2.45 ddd J 2.5 9.6 17.9 Hz 1H 2.56 dt J 2.9 7.3 Hz 2H 2.62 2.72 m 1H 2.63 dd J 9.3 13.5 Hz 1H 2.91 dd J 2.7 13.5 Hz 1H 4.24 4.31 m 1H C NMR 14.0 22.0 22.5 28.1 28.4 29.8 31.2 31.4 32.9 35.5 57.5 83.1 149.8 174.1 MS ESI m z 315 15 M 256 100 M 59 .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 5 nonylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 8c 5S . Treatment of 7c 250 mg 0.97 mmol in CHCl 5 mL with DMAP 125 mg 1.02 mmol and Boc O 712 mg 3.27 mmol by procedure B column chromatography 20 25 EtOAc hexane gave 8c 5S 345 mg 99 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.85 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.19 1.29 m 10H 1.29 1.38 m 2H 1.51 s 9H 1.55 quint J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.96 2.04 m 1H 2.06 2.17 m 1H 2.40 ddd J 2.5 9.6 17.8 Hz 1H 2.52 dt J 3.0 7.4 Hz 2H 2.58 2.67 m 1H 2.60 dd J 9.3 13.5 Hz 1H 2.86 dd J 2.6 13.5 Hz 1H 4.21 4.27 m 1H C NMR 14.0 21.9 22.6 28.0 28.7 29.1 29.2 29.4 29.8 31.2 31.8 32.9 35.5 57.5 83.0 149.8 174.0 MS ESI m z 358 10 MH 299 100 MH 59 .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 5 dodecylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 8d 5S . Treatment of 7d 234 mg 0.78 mmol in CHCl 5 mL with DMAP 100 mg 0.82 mmol and Boc O 600 mg 2.75 mmol by procedure B column chromatography 15 20 EtOAc hexane gave 8d 5S 302 mg 97 as a solidifying oil H NMR 0.87 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.21 1.31 m 16H 1.31 1.40 m 2H 1.53 s 9H 1.58 quint J 7.5 Hz 2H 1.99 2.06 m 1H 2.08 2.20 m 1H 2.43 ddd J 2.5 9.6 17.9 Hz 1H 2.54 dt J 2.9 7.4 Hz 2H 2.60 2.70 m 2H 2.62 dd J 9.2 13.5 Hz 1H 2.89 dd J 2.6 13.5 Hz 1H 4.23 4.29 m 1H C NMR 14.1 22.0 22.7 28.1 28.8 29.2 29.3 29.5 29.6 29.6 29.6 29.8 31.2 31.9 32.9 35.5 57.5 83.0 149.8 174.0 MS ESI m z 400 10 MH 341 100 MH 59 .

5 Hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 10b 5S . Treatment of 8b 178 mg 0.56 mmol in CHCl 3 mL with LiEtBH 1M soln in THF 1.41 mL 1.41 mmol by procedure C quenched with MeOH 4 mL at low temp. column chromatography 30 40 EtOAc hexane gave N tert butoxycarbonyl 5 hexylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 9b 5S 170 mg 95 as a colorless oil of a mixture of isomers MS ESI m z 316 100 M 1 300 20 M 17 . Treatment of 9b with an excess of TFA by Procedure D step a 2 h at rt gave 10b as a light yellow oil as a mixture of isomers accompanied by 22 of the open aldehyde form H NMR 8.91 s 0.22H MS ESI m z 200 100 M 17 . Crude product 10b was column chromatographed 60 70 EtOAc hexane and rechromatographed 0 0.25 MeOH CHCl to give pure azahemiacetal 10b 0.45 1.0 9.6 mg 13 as a colorless oil H NMR 0.89 t J 7.0 Hz 4.35H 1.26 1.45 m 8.7H 1.47 1.72 m 3.9H 1.75 1.85 m 0.45H 1.92 2.07 m 3.45H 2.10 2.23 m 0.9H 2.46 dd J 9.5 13.0 Hz 1H 2.52 2.65 m 2.9H 2.93 3.02 m 0.9H 3.23 dd J 2.5 13.0 Hz 1H 3.60 3.68 m 1H 3.67 3.75 m 0.45H 4.04 4.10 m 1H 4.20 4.27 m 0.45H 

5 Nonanylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 10c 5S . Treatment of 8c 227 mg 0.64 mmol in CHCl 4 mL with LiEtBH 1M soln in THF 1.59 mL 1.59 mmol by procedure C quenched with MeOH 5 mL at low temp. column chromatography 20 30 EtOAc hexane gave tert Butoxycarbonyl 5 nonanylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 9c 5S 220 mg 96 as a colorless oil of a mixture of isomers MS ESI m z 358 10 M 1 342 100 M 17 . Treatment of 9c with an excess of TFA by Procedure D step a 2 h at rt gave 10c as a light yellow oil of a mixture of isomers accompanied by 15 of the open aldehyde form H NMR 8.87 s 0.15H MS ESI m z 258 15 M 1 242 100 M 17 .

5 Dodecylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 10d 5S . Treatment of 8d 224 mg 0.56 mmol in CHCl 4 mL with LiEtBH 1M soln in THF 1.4 mL 1.4 mmol by procedure C quenched with MeOH 5 mL at low temp. column chromatography 20 30 EtOAc hexane gave N tert butoxycarbonyl 5 dodecylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 9d 5S 219 mg 97 as a solidifying oil of a mixture of isomers MS ESI m z 400 5 M 1 384 100 M 17 . Treatment of 9d with an excess of TFA by Procedure D step a 2 h at rt gave 10d as light yellow oil as a mixture of isomers accompanied by 8 of the open aldehyde form H NMR 8.89 s 0.08H MS ESI m z 301 5 M 300 20 M 1 284 100 M 17 .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 1 4 dideoxy 1 4 imino 2 3 O isopropylidene 5 O methanesulfonyl D ribitol 12 3R 4R 5R . H NMR 1.28 s 3 CH 1.42 s 12H t Bu CH 2.96 s 1.2 Ms 2.98 s 1.8 Ms 3.39 dd J 12.5 4.8 Hz 0.4H 3.46 dd J 12.5 4.8 Hz 0.6H 3.69 d J 12.5 Hz 0.6H 3.82 d J 12.5 Hz 0.4H 4.10 4.14 m 0.4H 4.22 4.30 m 1H 4.22 4.29 m 1.4H 4.45 dd J 10.1 4.1 Hz 0.6H 4.65 d J 5.9 Hz 1H 4.72 t J 5.3 Hz 1H C NMR major rotamer 24.9 26.9 29.6 37.1 52.5 62.4 68.9 79.2 80.4 81.7 112.1 154.2 C NMR minor rotamer 24.9 26.9 29.6 37.5 53.1 62.6 68.6 78.5 80.6 82.5 112.1 153.6 MS APCI m z 352 10 MH 252 100 MH Boc .

N tert Butoxycarbonyl 3 4 dihydroxy 3 4 O isopropylidene 5 nonylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 15 3R 4R 5S . Treatment of 13 60 mg 0.16 mmol in dry DMF 0.5 mL with nonathiolate generated from nonanethiol 62 L 0.33 mmol NaH 14 mg 0.35 mmol 60 mineral oil in dry DMF 0.5 mL by Procedure A column chromatography 5 10 MeOH EtOAc gave 15 30 mg 42 as a colorless oil 1H NMR 0.87 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.25 1.31 m 12H 1.36 s 3H 1.45 s 3H 1.56 1.57 m 11H 2.44 2.54 m 2H 2.82 dd J 6.2 14.4 Hz 1H 2.91 dd J 2.7 14.4 Hz 1H 4.38 dd J 2.7 6.2 Hz 1H 4.45 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.85 d J 5.5 Hz 1H C NMR 14.1 22.6 28.7 29.2 29.2 29.4 31.8 29.7 24.4 25.5 27.0 28.0 33.7 33.9 60.8 76.1 77.6 83.9 112.3 149.8 170.6 MS APCI m z m z 330 100 MH Boc .

3 4 Dihydroxy 5 nonylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 17 3R 4R 5S . Treatment of 15 20 mg 0.04 mmol with TFA HO 1 mL 9 1 as described for 16 gave 17 10 mg 85 as a colorless oil. H NMR 0.88 t J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.20 1.38 m 12H 1.52 1.59 m 2H 2.49 2.54 m 3H 2.70 dd J 5.4 13.5 Hz 1H 3.71 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 4.25 d J 4.9 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 4.6 Hz 1H 7.15 s 1H C NMR 14.1 22.7 28.8 29.2 29.3 29.7 31.9 29.5 27.0 32.6 35.0 60.7 69.7 72.5 176.2 MS APCI m z 290 100 MH .

3 4 Dihydroxy 5 nonylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 21 3R 4R 5S . Treatment of 15 40 mg 0.09 mmol in THF 1 mL with LiEtBH 1M THF 0.22 mL 0.22 mmol by procedure C column chromatography 10 20 EtOAc hexane gave N tert butoxycarbonyl 3 4 dihydroxy 3 4 O isopropylidene 5 nonylthiomethyl pyrrolidine 2 ol 19 3R 4R 5S 30 mg 75 as a colorless oil as a mixture of isomers MS APCI m z 414 100 M 17 314 95 MH Boc 17 . Deprotection of 19 28 mg 0.06 mmol with an excess of TFA HO 0.9 0.1 mL by Procedure D gave a light yellow oil that was column chromatographed 5 10 MeOH EtOAc to give 21 18 mg 96 as a light yellow oil. 1H NMR showed a complex mixture of isomers MS APCI m z 292 100 MH 274 60 M 17 .

Anti Quorum Sensing Assay Galactosidase Assay . An overnight O N culture of DH5 harboring the plasmids pSC11 which contains a P lacZ translational fusion 24 and pJN105L which contains a P lasR expression plasmid 25 grown in LB media 10 g tryptone 5 g yeast extract 5 g sodium chloride per liter supplemented with ampillicin 100 g ml and gentamycin 15 g ml was diluted to an ODof 0.150. At this time arabinose 0.2 w v N 3 oxododecanoyl homoserine lactone 3 oxo C AHL 2 M and either the compound under analysis or solvent DMSO was added to the culture 1.5 mL . A negative control containing only solvent and arabinose 0.2 w v was also assayed. The cultures were incubated with shaking for three hours at 37 C.

The conditions for the rhl biomonitor DH5 harboring pECP61.5 plasmid which contains P rhlR and P lacZ 4 were essentially same except that the LB medium was only supplemented with ampillicin 100 g ml the O N culture was diluted to an ODof 0.150 induced with 1 mM IPTG 2 M C HSL and the compounds or the controls added when the ODreached 1.0. After incubation at 37 C. for 4 hours with shaking galactosidase activity was assayed as described previously 28 . Miller units were calculated as described 29 . Assays were repeated at least twice. For each biological replicate experimental triplicates were performed and the average percent activity calculated by dividing the average Miller units from the samples containing compound or extract by the average Miller units from the sample containing solvent and multiplying by 100. Significance of inhibition was determined using a paired two tailed Student t test.

Luminescence Assay was grown in AB medium. A 2.5 mL aliquot of overnight culture of was added to 2.5 L and 10 L of each compound as well as the solvent. The compound was dissolved in water or DMSO to serve as a control. Growth and luminescence were measured simultaneously in a modified Spec20 for three hours. Growth was measured as ODand luminescence was recorded in light units 1 LU 6.51 10quanta sec mL .

Strains DH5 harboring a P lasR expression plasmid and a P lacZ translational fusion plasmid was used as a biomonitor for the Las QS system and XL 1Blue harboring a plasmid containing rhlA lacZ translational fusion and P rhlR was used as a biomonitor for the Rhl QS system. strain B392 MAV was used.

In this work a set of optically pure lactams and their reduced cyclic azahemiacetal analogues were synthesized bearing the additional alkylthiomethyl substituent and evaluated their effect on AHL dependent las and rhl QS pathways. The concentration of these ligands and the simple structural modification such as the length of the alkylthio substituent has notable effect on activity. The lactam derivatives with nonanylthio or dodecylthio chains acted as inhibitors of las signaling with moderate potency. The cyclic azahemiacetal with shorter propylthio or hexylthio substituent was found to strongly inhibit both las and rhl signaling at higher concentrations while the propylthio analogue strongly stimulated the las QS system at lower concentrations 50 g mL .

Design and Synthesis. The S 5 bromomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 6 a key substrate for the synthesis of lactam analogue 7 was conveniently prepared from L pyroglutamic acid 17 . Displacement of bromide in 6 with sodium propanethiolate produced 5 S propylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 7a 96 Scheme 1 . Since it was previously demonstrated that the length of the side chain is crucial for determining the agonistic and antagonistic activity 18 lactams containing C6 C9 and C12 alkylthio chain lengths 7b d were also analogously prepared. A set of the cyclic azahemiacetals N O acetals or hemiaminals 10 with a hydroxyl group instead of a carbonyl oxygen at C2 was synthesized as well. Thus although attempted reduction of lactams 7 with LiBEtH was unsuccessful reduction of the N Boc protected lactams 8a d proceeded smoothly to afford azahemiacetals 9a d. Subsequent deprotection with trifluoroacetic acid afforded 5 S alkylthiomethyl pyrrolidin 2 ol 10a d as a mixture of isomers.

To increase the polarity solubility of the lactam and azahemiacetal analogues in the testing media aza analogues with hydroxyl groups at C3 and C4 were also prepared. The N Boc protected 1 4 dideoxy 1 4 imino D ribitol 11 19 21 conveniently prepared from D gulonic g lactone served as a suitable starting material for the synthesis of dihydroxy lactams 14 and 15. Thus mesylation of ribitol 11 followed by the selective oxidation 22 of the resulting 12 afforded 13. Displacement of the mesylate 13 with sodium hexane and nonanethiolate produced 5 alkylthiomethyl lactams 14 and 15 in high yields which were deprotected with TFA to give 5S hexyl or nonanylthiomethyl 3 4 dihydroxypyrrolidin 2 ones 16 and 17 Scheme 2 . Reduction of 5 alkylthiomethyl lactams 14 and 15 with LiBEt3H afforded cyclic azahemiacetals 18 and 19. Subsequent deprotection with TFA provided 5S alkylthiomethyl 3 4 dihydroxypyrrolidin 2 ols 20 and 21 as a complex mixture of azahemiacetals existing in equilibrium with dehydrated form imine as well as with open aldehyde and dimeric forms as reported for such class of 4 azaribofuranoses 23 . These azahemiacetals can be considered as aza analogues of S ribosyl L homocysteine SRH in which a ribose oxygen is replaced by nitrogen atom and b the homocysteine moiety is substituted with n alkylthiols with different length of carbon chain.

Screening against las signaling. To determine the effect of the lactams 7 16 and 17 and the cyclic azahemiacetal derivatives 10 20 and 21 on the las AHL mediated pathway a las dependent galactosidase reporter PI lacZ was expressed with lasR in 24 25 . As expected and in agreement with published data 24 25 exogenous 3 oxo C AHL activated the P lacZ . Also no activity was observed in absence of exogenous AHL. The effect of synthetic compounds on the las activity was also compared with the addition of DMSO as a solvent. The propylthio lactam 7a and its azahemiacetal counterpart 10a were initially screened at a concentration of 100 g mL for their activity against the las system. The lactam 7a inhibited las activity approximately by 28 while the azahemiacetal 10a was found to enhance las reporter activity by 15 . This was dependent upon the addition of 2 M of 3 oxo C AHL. However azahemiacetal 10a significantly stimulated approximately by 2.3 fold las reporter activity at the concentration of 50 g mL while inhibiting las reporter activity by 69 and 89 at 150 and 200 g mL respectively. In contrast the lactam analogue 7a inhibited las activity at all concentrations tested. Cell growth was not inhibited by the addition of lactam and azahemiacetal compounds at the tested concentrations data not shown .

Among other lactam analogues tested the percent inhibition increased in a concentration dependent manner. Inhibition potency also increased as the alkylthio chain length increased. Specifically nonylthio lactam 7c and dodecylthio lactam 7d were found to possess greatest inhibition at all concentrations tested. At the lowest concentration tested 50 g mL nonylthio lactam 7c inhibited 28 while dodecylthio lactam 7d inhibited 48 . On the contrary among the cyclic azahemiacetals analogues no general trend was observed between chain length and percent inhibition. As with the propylthio azahemiacetal 10a hexylthio azahemiacetal 10b also stimulated QS at 50 g mL but with much lesser potency and inhibited 100 at all higher concentrations tested. Azahemiacetals containing nonyl side chain 10c and dodecyl chain 10d showed moderate activity. The ribolactam analogues 16 and 17 and their cyclic azahemiacetal counterparts 20 and 21 were found to inhibit las activity at all concentrations tested but only with moderate potency with azahemiacetals being slightly more active.

Screening Against the rhl Pathway. To determine the effect of the lactams 7 16 and 17 and the cyclic azahemiacetal derivatives 10 20 and 21 on the rhl AHL mediated pathways a rhl dependent galactosidase reporter P lacZ was expressed with rhlR in 24 25 . As expected and in agreement with published data 24 25 exogenous C AHL activated the rhl galactosidase reporter data not shown . The lactam analogues 7a d stimulated rhl QS activities at higher concentrations with moderate potency. Of these hexylthio lactam 7b was most active Table 2 . In contrast cyclic azahemiacetals with shorter alkylthio chain 10a and 10b inhibited rhl activity while analogues with longer alkyl chain 10c and 10d were inactive. The hexylthio azahemiacetal 10b completely inhibited rhl signaling at concentrations of 100 g mL and higher. The strong inhibition observed with propylthio 10a and hexylthio 10b azahemiacetal analogues having side chain lengths similar to C AHL is in agreement with the structure activity relationship reported for various synthetic AHL mimetics targeting RhlR 26 . The ribolactam analogues 16 and 17 and their cyclic azahemiacetal counterparts 20 and 21 stimulated rhl activities with moderate potency with lactams being more effective e.g. 16 vs. 20 .

