---

title: Method and apparatus for sharing data between devices
abstract: A method, apparatus, and system are provided for sharing data between devices. As an example, a method for exchanging information between a phone and at least one other device includes: obtaining from a remote server a unique identifier that uniquely identifies the phone; establishing a session ID (identifier) between the phone and the other device via first communication channel; and communicating data from the phone to the remote server via a second communication channel along with the session ID, wherein the other device is configured to access the data from the remote server using the session ID.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020121&OS=09020121&RS=09020121
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09020121
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120716
---
The primary objective of a telephony connection is to communicate information. The information may be a simple Hello or may be more detailed information. For example when a user calls a customer service call center the user may be asked to provide various pieces of information in order to authenticate their identity with the customer service call center. Examples of such information may include name security code account number date of birth etc.

One problem with traditional telephony connections especially in the context of customer service call centers is that oftentimes when a call is transferred from one agent to the next the caller needs to provide the authenticating information again to the next agent. This process is inefficient and can be become annoying to the caller when the caller must repeatedly provide the authenticating information.

Another problem with traditional telephony connections also in the context of customer service call centers is that users are often placed on hold for long periods of time. The user typically does not know how many other users are in front of the user in the queue and does not know the approximate wait time. This unknown adds to the frustration of being placed on hold. Some customer service call centers provide an automated message that informs the user of his or her position in the queue and the approximate wait time. Although this bit of information may mitigate the frustration and irritation of being placed on hold it does not solve the problem of waiting in a queue to achieve the ultimate goal of the call.

To overcome some of these drawbacks the customer service call center may provide a call back feature where the user provides a phone number to the customer service call center and then hangs up. The user s position in the queue is tracked and the customer service call center places an outgoing call to the user when the user s position in the queue comes up. However the call back feature is wrought with security concerns. It is relatively simple for a malicious party to spoof the phone number of the customer service call center and call the user representing itself as the customer service call center. The malicious party could then obtain sensitive information from the user for illegal purposes e.g. to steal the user s money. For this reason users prefer to place outgoing calls to trusted phone numbers rather than accepting or trusting incoming calls from potentially malicious parties.

Thus such conventional systems are subject to failure making them unreliable and undesirable. Accordingly there remains a need in the art for a method and apparatus for a secure and efficient way to share information over a phone call connection.

One embodiment provides a method for exchanging information between endpoints of a telephony connection. The method includes obtaining from a remote server a unique identifier that uniquely identifies a first endpoint communicating to the remote server user information associated with the first endpoint wherein the user information is associated with the unique identifier establishing a session ID between the endpoints via the telephony connection wherein the telephony connection is established between the first endpoint and a customer service call center communicating the session ID to the remote server via a communications connection separate from the telephony connection wherein the user information is communicated from the remote server to a first agent of the customer service call center based on a first agent device providing the session ID to the remote server and wherein after the telephony connection is transferred from the first agent to a second agent the user information is communicated from the remote server to the second agent based on a second agent device providing the session ID to the remote server.

Other embodiments provide and apparatus for exchanging information between endpoints of a telephony connection. The apparatus comprising a first communications module and a second communications module. The first communications module is configured to obtain from a remote server a unique identifier that uniquely identifies the apparatus where the apparatus comprises a first endpoint and communicate information to the remote server wherein the information is associated with the unique identifier. The second communications module is configured to establish a session ID at the endpoints of the telephony connection where the first communications module communicates the session ID to the remote server via a communications connection separate from the telephony connection and where the information is communicated from the remote server to a second endpoint based on the second endpoint providing the session ID to the remote server.

Another embodiment provides a system for exchanging information between devices. The system comprises a server coupled to a data network a first device and a second device. The first device is configured to obtain a unique identifier corresponding to the first device from the server establish a session ID between the first device and a second device using an audio connection and transmit data to the server via a data connection wherein the server associates the data with the session ID. The second device configured to obtain a unique identifier corresponding to the second device from the server wherein the session ID associates the unique identifier corresponding to the first device and the unique identifier corresponding to the second device and access the data from the server via the data network based on the session ID.

In an example embodiment enabling the secure transmission and reception of information using a mobile phone a user registers the mobile phone and phone number with a trusted server. The trusted server assigns the mobile phone a unique identifier ID associated with the phone. Another party such as a customer service call center also registers with the trusted server and receives a unique ID associated with the other party. The security features of this example embodiment enable a user call to be ended and securely returned instead of maintaining the user connection in a queue while other user connections are being serviced.

When the user calls the other party using his or her phone a session ID is generated between the phone and the other party. In one embodiment a handshake protocol establishes the session ID. For example a handshake similar to the SSL Secure Socket Layer protocol may be used. The handshake may occur over a low bandwidth connection such as the phone call itself. In one example the handshake messages are sent as inaudible tones over the voice channel of the phone call.

Once the user s mobile phone and the other party are each aware of the session ID information is communicated between the mobile phone and the other party via the trusted server. For example information is transmitted from the phone to the server where the information is stored along with the session ID. In one embodiment the information is transmitted to the server along a high bandwidth connection such as the Internet. The other party then retrieves the information from the server based on knowing the session ID via a second high bandwidth connection. The information is retrieved from the server in either a push or pull manner in keeping with well known techniques.

In another example information is transmitted from the other party to the server where the information is stored along with the session ID. The mobile phone can then retrieve the information from the server based on knowing the session ID. In this manner information can be securely communicated between the phone and the other party via the trusted server. The phone and the other party do not necessarily trust one another but they both trust the server which allows the transaction to be secure.

One example use of the secure connection is within the context of a user calling a customer service call center. Relevant user information e.g. name account number credit card number etc. can be stored by the user mobile phone onto the server. The customer service call center then accesses this information from the server without the user having to repeatedly provide the information to the customer service call center during the call e.g. as the call is transferred between customer service agents. Also in another example the customer service call center provides games to the user while the user is on hold. The customer service call center can transmit the game data to the server and the user s device can access the game data via the server. In another example the game data is stored on a third party server and the customer service call center provides pointers to the game data via the server that are stored on the third party server.

Another example use of the secure connection is a point of sale terminal. The user establishes a session with the terminal at checkout e.g. via NFC near field communication or other protocol. The user device and or the user s registered credit card and the POS terminal are communicatively coupled to the server and exchange information via the server. For example the user provides payment information to the server and the terminal accesses the payment information on the server. Similarly the server provides a sales receipt to the server that the user then retrieves from the server. Uploading the receipt by the POS terminal and accessing the receipt by the user both occur at a time after the transaction is complete e.g. later that night or the next day.

Turning to the drawings and referring to an example communication environment is presented as an example environment for the security features described herein and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other communication environments. In the communication environment includes client devices A B a data network a voice network and server s . Each of the client devices A B is in communication with the data network and the voice network . Server s are also in communication with the data network .

Examples of client devices A B include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including mobile phones with advance computing capabilities or smartphones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players e book readers Internet enabled televisions or Internet enabled appliances among others. In some embodiments two or more client devices A B comprise the same type of device. For example client devices A and B may both be mobile phones. In other embodiments the two or more client devices are different types of devices. For example client device A may be a mobile phone and client device B may be a telephone or computing device associated with a customer service call center.

In the embodiment illustrated by the client devices A B communicate with a server s via data network . The data network may comprise any type of network for communicating data including a LAN local area network WAN wide area network cellular data network VPN virtual private network enterprise network or any other type of network that allows sharing of information and or resources. The voice network may be any type of network for voice communication including a cellular phone network a POTS Plain Old Telephone Service network a conference call network among others.

The server s may comprise multiple physical servers. According to various embodiments each server can equivalently be a physically separate machine or can be different processes running within the same physical machine.

The client device A of includes application s communications client output devices e.g. a display and input devices e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen video recording device audio recording device GPS global positioning module photo capture device etc. . In some embodiments a device may act as both an output device and an input device. An example of application s is a web browser application or a smartphone application or app . Application s provide the client device A with a variety of functionalities. Examples include social media functionality web browsing capabilities calendars contact information games document processing photo editing document sharing among others. Application s employ the output devices to display information at a graphical user interface GUI .

The communications client includes a communications module that enables output devices to display information at the GUI. The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the server s . Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client device A to the data network e.g. Internet and or voice network e.g. cellular phone network using one of a variety of available network protocols. The GUI is configured to display data such as for example audio and video data received from the server s via the data network and or received over the voice network .

In some embodiments client device B includes similar elements and functions as client device A. In other embodiments client device B includes different fewer or more elements and functions as client device A.

Some embodiments provide for a first user using client device A to register with the server s and obtain a unique ID identifier associated with the client device A. Similarly client device B registers with the server s and obtains a unique ID associated with the client device B. The client devices A B establishes a phone connection between one another over the voice network . In one example the client device A is operated by a user and client device B is associated with a customer service call center. A phone connection is established when the user operating client device A calls the customer service call center.

After the phone connection is established the client devices A B communicates with one another to establish a session ID for the phone connection. In one embodiment the session ID is established between the client devices A B by sending messages between the devices over the voice network . For example inaudible tones are communicated between the devices over the voice network to establish the session ID as described in greater detail below.

Once the client devices A B are each aware of the session ID information in the form of machine readable data can be communicated between the client devices A B via the data network and server s . For example data is transmitted from the client device A to the server s via the data network where the data is stored along with the session ID. The client device B then retrieves the data from the server s via the data network based on knowing the session ID. The data is retrieved from the server s in either a conventional push or pull manner. Therefore in some embodiments data can be securely communicated between the client devices A B via the trusted server.

In one embodiment the server to which the data is uploaded from client device A is the same physical server from which the client device B accesses the content. In other embodiments the server to which client device A uploads the content is different from the server from which client devices B or C access the content though they may be considered one virtual server. As an example the different physical servers operate by separate mobile phone service providers though they may act as a single virtual server.

Referring now to one particular example of client device A is illustrated. Many other embodiments of the client device A may be used. In the illustrated embodiment of the client device A includes one or more processor s memory a network interface one or more storage devices a power source output device s and input device s . The client device A also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client. Each of components and is interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications in any operative manner.

As illustrated processor s are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within client device A. For example processor s execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device A during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device A is turned OFF. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory maintains program instructions for execution by the processor s .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard disks optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device A uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such data network and or voice network . Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include wireless network interface Bluetooth G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB Universal Serial Bus . In some embodiments the client device A uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server s of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The client device A includes one or more input devices . Input devices are configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio video or other sensing feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system camera a video recorder a microphone a GPS module or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user or sensing the environment. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device A. Output devices are configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output devices may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user. In some embodiments a device may act as both an input device and an output device.

The client device A includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client device A. Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device A includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device A. For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source .

As also illustrated in the client device A includes communications client . Communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device A. For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device A to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. In some embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the client device A.

The storage device includes non volatile storage where digital content and information can be stored on the client device . In one embodiment the storage device may store a unique device ID associated with the client device and or a session ID corresponding to a communication session between the client device and another device. In some embodiments the unique device ID and or the session ID are stored in the memory .

The operating system is configured to communicate with a remote server via the data communications module to obtain a unique device ID for the client device . In one embodiment the remote server acts as a certificate authority and the client device is configured to establish a trust relationship with the certificate authority.

The client device is manipulated by a user to initiate a telephony connection between the client device and another device. In one embodiment the connection is initiated by the user dialing the phone number manually or selecting the phone number from a contact list in a conventional manner. In other embodiments the connection is initiated through one of the installed applications after the user has been authenticated with the installed application. In yet another embodiment the connection is initiated after the user selects an advertisement presented to the user on a display device of the client device i.e. a click to call ad .

After the telephony connection is established the client device enters into a communication session with the other device. A unique session ID is associated with the communication session. As described in greater detail below in one example the session ID is established between the client device and the other device by implementing a handshake protocol. In one embodiment the handshake protocol is performed by the client device and the other device by way of exchanging tones over the voice channel of the telephony connection. For example the encoder decoder application is configured to encode and decode the messages corresponding to the handshake protocol into a series of tones and transmit the tones over the audio channel of the telephone call via the phone audio software application and the cellular network module .

In some embodiments the encoder decoder application is configured to encode data into audio signals and or decode audio signals into data. In one embodiment the frequency of the encoded audio signal is above or below the range of human hearing. In other embodiments the encoded audio signal is human recognizable much like a fax machine or acoustic modem. Also in some embodiments a predefined start of message code is precedes the encoded audio signal and or a predefined end of message code is appended after the encoded audio signal. Any tone generation method can be used to encode the data into an audio signal. One example includes dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling used for signaling over analog telephone lines.

The encoded audio signal with preceding and or appended start end codes is communicated from the encoder decoder application to the phone audio software that inserts the audio signal and or codes into the audio stream of the voice conservation. The phone audio software may comprise firmware for facilitating a phone conversion between two users. The phone audio software may also be associated with an API application programming interface that allows additional audio information to be inserted into the phone conversation. In one embodiment the API inserts the encoded audio signal into the phone conversation between the two users. In other embodiments any other technologically feasible process is implemented to insert the audio of the encoded audio signal into the phone conversation. In some embodiments the encoded signal and or codes is repeated one or more times so that the receiver device can properly receive the message.

As shown in the embodiment in each of the installed applications the operating system the encoder decoder application and the phone audio software are shown as separate software applications. In other embodiments the functionality of the installed applications the operating system the encoder decoder application and the phone audio software can be combined into a single software application e.g. mobile phone app . In still further embodiments the functionality of the installed applications the encoder decoder application and the phone audio software may be included in the operating system of the client device .

In some embodiments the same similar different fewer or more components shown in may be included in the other client device with which the client device communicates.

As shown in at stage 1 the first device registers with the server . At stage 2 the second device registers with the server . In one embodiment stage 1 is performed before stage 2. In another embodiment stage 2 is performed before stage 1. In yet another embodiment stages 1 and 2 are performed simultaneously. One example of a method for the first device and the second device to register with server is described below in .

Referring still to at stage 3 the first device and the second device establish a session ID. In one embodiment the session ID is established by the first device and the second device performing a handshake protocol over a first communication channel such as the audio channel of a telephony connection. An example of the handshake protocol is described below in .

After the session ID has been established at stage 4 the first device transmits data to the server along with the session ID over a second communication channel such as the Internet. In some embodiments the first device also transmits the unique ID associated with the first device to the server as a form of authenticating the first device . At stage 5 the server stores the data received from the first device with the associated session ID. In one embodiment the server itself is configured to store the data and the associated session ID. In other embodiments the server communicates the data to another server not shown that stores the data and the session ID. At stage 6 the second device accesses the data from the server using the session ID. The data is accessed by the second device using either a conventional push or pull technique. In a push technique the server pushes the data to the second device whenever new data is available. In a pull technique the second device periodically polls the server for new data.

Additionally in some embodiments and as an added security layer before the second device is able to retrieve the data the first device receives a data access request from the server . The first device then confirms that the second device should be allowed to access the data such as by providing a password.

Additionally in some embodiments the second device can access the data i.e. at stage 6 after the communication session between the first device and the second device has been discontinued. For example assume that the first device is a point of sale terminal and the second device is a user s mobile phone or registered credit card. A session ID is established between the terminal and the phone card at the point of sale. In one example for a credit card transaction the session ID may be a transaction ID of the credit card transaction. Once the payment transaction is finished the goods services are paid for by the user. Later that night or during low traffic the POS terminal transmits a full receipt for the transaction IDs completed that day to the server . The next day the user logs in via a web interface and authenticates with the server from which the user can obtain the full receipt data uploaded by the POS terminal.

At stage the software application on the client device returns the verification code to the server. In response to receiving the returned verification code from the client device at stage the server delivers a unique ID to the client device that corresponds to the client device. In one embodiment the server maintains a listing of client devices and the corresponding unique IDs. In some embodiments the unique ID corresponds to an identity of an individual and not to a particular client device. For example a person e.g. John Doe may own five different client devices including a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile phone a tablet computer and a video game console. Each of the five client devices is associated with John Doe. The unique ID corresponds to John Doe such that any time that John Doe communicates with the server using any one of the devices associated with John Doe s identity the server can recognize that the communication is being received from John Doe.

In some embodiments the server acts as a certificate authority and the messages transmitted at stages are encrypted. For example the certificate authority may be associated with a public key and a private key. Messages that are sent to the server from the client device can be encoded by the client device using the certificate authority s public key. In this manner only the certificate authority can properly decode the messages since only the certificate authority knows the private key.

As shown at stage a software application executing on device A such as the operating system transmits a message encrypted with device B s public key B to device B over a first communication channel such as the audio channel of a telephone call. The message includes a session ID and information about the certificate authority server that communicates the data associated with the session ID. The session ID may be have been randomly generated by device A at the time of establishing the communication session. In some embodiments the message includes a timestamp. As described in one embodiment the first communication channel comprises an audio channel associated with a telephone call between device A and device B. Also in some embodiments and as described the message is encoded as a series of audible or inaudible tones.

In some embodiments a listener application on device B is configured to listen to the audio stream of the phone conversation via phone audio software e.g. phone audio software . In one embodiment an API into the phone audio software allows other applications such as the listener application to listen to the audio stream of the phone conversation. When the listener application detects a start of message code in the audio stream the listener application begins recording the encoded audio signal that follows the start of message code. The listener application stops recording when an end of message code is detected. The listener application provides the received encoded audio signal to the encoder decoder application which is configured to decode the audio signal into another data format. The decoded data format can then be decrypted as described below.

In another embodiment the start of message and end of message codes are not appended to the encoded audio signal. At device B the listener application detects the audio signal itself and extracts the audio signal from the audio stream of the phone conversation.

At stage a software application executing on device B such as the operating system decrypts the message received from device A using device B s private key B . In this manner device B is able to ascertain the session ID the certificate authority server and or the timestamp included in the message from device A.

At stage the software application executing on device B transmits a message encrypted with device A s public key A to device A over the first communication channel. The encrypted message at stage includes the session ID. At stage the software application executing on device A decrypts the message received from device B using device A s private key A . In this manner device A is now aware that device B successfully received the session ID from device A. Therefore both device A and device B are now aware of the session ID. Optionally in some embodiments additional acknowledgement messages are transmitted between device A and device B to confirm that both devices are properly aware of the session ID.

As shown at stage a software application executing on device A such as the operating system transmits data to the server along with the session ID established between device A and device B. In one embodiment the data transmitted at stage is transmitted over a different communication channel than the communication channel used to establish the session ID. In some embodiments the software application also transmits device A s unique ID as a form of authenticating device A with the server.

At stage a software application executing on device B such as the operating system attempts to access the data from the server using the session ID. The attempt to access the data may be based on a data push from the server to device B or a data pull from device B to the server.

At stage the software application executing on device A confirms that device B is allowed to access the data. In one embodiment after receiving the access attempt from device B the server transmits a message to device A asking device A to approve the data access attempt by device B. For example the server asks for a password of other confirmation code to be entered into device A and communicated to the server. In some embodiments stage is optional and is omitted as depicted by the dotted lines around stage and the dotted arrows to and from stage .

At stage the software application executing on device B accesses the data from the server using the session ID. In other embodiments the method occurs in reverse with device B transmitting data to the server the data then being accessed by device A.

In this manner data is securely communicated between device A and device B via the server. Device A and device B do not necessarily trust one another but they both trust the server which allows the transaction to be secure.

One example application occurs in a customer service call center environment when a user calls the center. Relevant user information e.g. name account number credit card number etc. is stored by the user mobile phone onto the server or may have been previously stored by the user mobile phone onto the server. Upon initiation of the telephony connection by the user a customer service call center agent can access the user information from the server using a session ID for the telephony connection. If the call is transferred to another agent the other agent is also able to access the user information from the server without requiring the user mobile phone to re enter the information.

Relevant user information e.g. name account number credit card number etc. is stored by the client device onto the server or may have been previously stored by the client device onto the server . Upon initiation of the telephony connection between the client device and the customer service call center a first agent A can access the user information from the server via the data network using a session ID for the telephony connection. If the call is transferred to another agent i.e. agent B then agent B accesses the user information from the server in a similar manner to agent A without requiring the user client device to re enter the information.

At stage the user device provides personal information about the user to the server user info . In one embodiment the user information is provided in real time by the user to the client device which forwards the information to the server. In another embodiment the user information was previously stored onto the client device and the client device forwards the information to the server. At stage the server associates the user info with the session ID between the user device and the customer service call center.

At stage a first agent of the customer service call center receives the telephony call to service the customer. At stage a computing device used by the first agent retrieves the user information from the server based on the session ID.

At a later time at stage the telephony call is transferred from the first agent to a second agent. At stage a computing device used by the second agent retrieves the user information from the server based on the session ID. In this manner both agents are able to retrieve the user information from the server based on knowledge of the session ID. Therefore the user client device does not need to repeat the user information each time that the call is transferred to a different agent. Addition in embodiments where the user information is already stored on the server prior to establishing the telephony call with the customer service call center the user client device may not need to provide the user information to any of the agents since the agents are able to retrieve the information from the server using the session ID.

Also in another example application the customer service call center provides games to the user while the user is on hold. In one example the customer service call center transmits the game data to the server that stores the game data. The user accesses the game data via the server. In another example the user device and the customer service call center both register with a trusted server but the game data is stored on a third party server. The customer service call center provides pointers to the game data such that the pointers are stored on the trusted server.

Another example application is a point of sale POS terminal. The user establishes a session with the terminal at checkout e.g. via NFC or other protocol . The user device and the terminal are both communicatively coupled to the server and exchange data via the server. For example the user provides payment information to the server and the terminal accesses the payment information on the server. Similarly the server provides a sales receipt to the server that the user then retrieves from the server.

In the example embodiments and applications the various applications can be configured on any distributed or embedded platform within a single physical location or multiple locations. As such embodiments contemplate that applications resources managers servers etc. may be joined or separated without diverging from their identities and functions. For example a server device may equivalently include a single server platform or multiple server platforms.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

One embodiment of the disclosure may be implemented as a program product for use with a computer system. The program s of the program product define functions of the embodiments including the methods described herein and can be contained on a variety of computer readable storage media. Illustrative computer readable storage media include but are not limited to i non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive flash memory ROM chips or any type of solid state non volatile semiconductor memory on which information is permanently stored and ii writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive or any type of solid state random access semiconductor memory on which alterable information is stored.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. Skilled artisans are expected to employ such variations as appropriate and the disclosure is expected to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

