---

title: Search engine inference based virtual assistance
abstract: Techniques described herein generally relate to real time inference based systems. Example embodiments may set forth devices, methods, and computer programs related to search engine inference based virtual assistance. One example method may include a computing device adapted to receive text as input and a computer processor arranged to determine at least one inference regarding subject matter of the text based on one or more web searches of one or more terms within the text. The inference(s) may then be automatically displayed upon the inference(s) being determined. The text may be automatically received as input from a voice-to-text converter as voice-to-text conversion producing the text is occurring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08495051&OS=08495051&RS=08495051
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08495051
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
Priority is claimed to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 724 660 entitled SEARCH ENGINE INFERENCE BASED VIRTUAL ASSISTANCE filed on Mar. 16 2010 and identified by.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

When listening to or participating in a conversation lecture or meeting it is often helpful to receive additional information during the particular communication session regarding the subjects or topics of discussion as they appear. However manual web searching and word by word analysis during the conversation is often inconvenient slow and may distract the listener and also take the attention of the listener and others away from the current discussion.

The present disclosure describes methods computer readable media and devices for search engine inference based virtual assistance. Some example methods may comprise automatically determining inferences comprising receiving streaming text as input to a computing device determining as the text is received inferences regarding subject matter of the text based on web searches of terms within the text and automatically displaying the inferences. Determining inferences may include analyzing results of a web search to determine a number of hits and topics of the web search results. When the number of hits returned is below a predetermined level the results of a web search may be considered adequate to establish the topics of the web search results for the purpose of determining inferences. When the number of hits is above the predetermined level the results of a web search may be considered inadequate and additional web searches may be performed using increasingly larger combinations of terms from the text. Text received as input may include text produced by a voice to text converter and inferences may be provided to the voice to text converter to aid in interpreting subsequent voice signals. Some example computer readable media may comprise computer executable instructions configured to carry out the methods described herein and some example devices may comprise a processor and a memory coupled to the processor the memory having computer executable instructions that when executed configure the processor to perform the methods described herein.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and make part of this disclosure.

This disclosure is drawn inter alia to devices methods and computer programs related to search engine inference based virtual assistance as will be described herein.

Techniques described herein generally relate to inference based systems. Example embodiments may set forth devices methods and computer programs related to search engine inference based virtual assistance. One example method may include a computing device adapted to receive text as input and a computer processor arranged to determine at least one inference regarding subject matter of the text based on one or more web searches of one or more terms within the text. The inference s may then be automatically displayed upon the inference s being determined.

The present disclosure identifies and appreciates that conventional inference based systems show that one way in which additional information may be derived from discussions is to employ techniques to draw inferences about what has been discussed. However current inference based systems are typically designed for use on existing documents in a static environment. Such systems do not apply easily to communications happening in real time and do not evolve over time or provide up to date meanings and extrapolations as words and contexts change.

At block Receive word or text segment from voice to text engine a word or text segment may be received as input to a computing device. For example this word or text segment may be captured by the computing device during a one way or two way voice or text communication video conference live chat session streaming audio or video session or during playback on the device of pre recorded video or audio etc. In cases where the communication is first received or first generated as voice real time voice to text processing performed on the computing device or performed prior to voice signal being received by the computing device converts the voice to text such that individual words of the communication may be processed as text in the search engine inference based virtual assistance described herein. Various currently available speech recognition and voice to text applications and systems may be used in whole or part to provide suitable voice to text conversion such as for example those provided by Dragon Systems and Nuance Communications Inc. Example computing devices may include desktop computers notebook computers mobile computing devices smart phones personal digital assistants etc. Block may be followed by block .

At block Determine inferences in real time one or more inferences from the word or text segment are determined by a computing device in real time constraints or near real time constraints based on one or more web searches of the word or web searches of combinations of words within the text segment. The inferences may also be based on previous web searches made of previously received words or word segments received during the same communication session or previous communication sessions and also on the frequency of particular words or phrases appearing within the text segment and or previous and subsequent text segments of the communication session. Example processes for determining these inferences using such web searches are shown in . Block may be followed by block .

At block Display top inference for word text segment in real time one or more top inferences for the received word and or text segment are then displayed in real time or near real time on the computing device. The inferences are information that may be displayed during the communication session on the computing device to provide additional or more detailed information regarding the subject or subjects of the content as it is currently being communicated to the user during the communication session. The inferences may also be communicated to and displayed on remote devices in communication with the computing device. Block may be followed by block when additional processing is required for additional words or text segments.

The use of a web search engine in determining inferences allows for other advanced options. For example the search engine inference based virtual assistance system may be configurable such that highly specific terms within the communication session are removed from the web search results. Thus if someone were discussing movie stars during the communication session and brought up the movie star s name the search engine inference based virtual assistance system could subtract out this specific name and one would see more information on movie stars who had much in common but were not in fact related to that person in particular. In politics or business this might allow one to provide counterexamples or other options in real time thereby shaping a negotiation.

The web search results could also be set to target only recent results to gather material only related to very recent news. This might help one catch up on a topic that one knew about some time ago or might help one keep up with a conversation of the communication session.

At block Receive word from voice to text engine a word is received from a voice to text engine. Block may be followed by block . At block Rarity of word above pre determined threshold as each word is received it is determined in real time whether the rarity of the word is above a pre determined threshold. A word rarity score may first be applied to the word. A high word rarity score would mean the word is relatively rare while a low word rarity score would mean the word is relatively common. For example a primary list of extremely common words such as if the and is may be stored and accessed. If the word appears on the list of extremely common words it may be ignored completely or be given a rarity score of 0 for example. If the word is not on the list of extremely common words then a stored word rarity list with associated pre determined word rarity scores for each word on the list may be accessed to determine whether the word appears on the word rarity list and the word s associated word rarity score.

If the word does not appear on the word rarity list a world wide web web search using a web search engine e.g. Google may be automatically performed using the word as the search term in the web search. The number of hits returned from the search may be used as the basis of a word rarity score for the word. The fewer hits returned the higher the word rarity score would be for that word. For example the word senator may result in 68.4 million hits using that word as a search term in a web search and Trinity University may return 9 million hits. However the word tool may return hundreds of millions of hits and therefore return a word rarity score much lower than senator or Trinity University . The word and associated word rarity score may then be added to the word rarity list for future use.

If the rarity of the word is not above a pre determined threshold e.g. does not have a word rarity score above a pre determined amount then the process moves on to the next received word and the steps above are repeated for the next word. Also the particular threshold may be user configurable through one or more user interfaces on the computing device. If the rarity of the word is above a pre determined threshold e.g. has a word rarity score above a pre determined amount then the word is marked as rare and may be joined with any neighboring adjectives or adverbs.

Block may be followed by block . At block Add word to inference term table the resulting word phrase is then added to an inference term table. Thus as each word is received one or more neighboring words may be stored in a buffer in order to combine them in such a manner. The rare words are grouped with neighboring adjectives and adverbs even if the individual adjectives and adverbs are common This allows one to capture the difference between bad traffic and good traffic for example which could lead to dramatically different inferences even though the words bad and good are common enough to be discarded on their own.

Block may be followed by block . At block Determine number of inferences the number of and most common inferences based on using the word phrase in a web search is then automatically determined . The number of inferences may be determined for example by using the word phrase as a search term in a web search and analyzing the search results accordingly. For example topics of the search results may be automatically read from the search results and used as the inferences for the word phrase. The number of inferences may be the number of different topics found in the search results or the number of different topics in the first n search results . The most common inferences within the search results are those appearing most often within the search results compared to other inferences within the search results. Various other automated techniques and processes for drawing inferences from analysis of web search results may be implemented as an alternative or in conjunction with those above.

Also the strength of the inference may be determined by comparing the related inference of the search result output to the word phrase being used as the search term. For example if a web search on word phrase A returns a search result output B then B may be automatically searched to determine what proportion of search hits also involve A. If a high proportion of search hits involve A then the strength of the inference is determined to be stronger than if a lower proportion of search hits involve A.

Block may be followed by block . At block Number of inferences below threshold it is then determined whether the number of inferences and or web search result hits are below a certain threshold for the word phrase. This determination of overall search relevance may be made based on the number of inferences determined above the number of web search results using the word phrase as the search term or any combination thereof. For example if the number of different inferences found in the search results is too high then it may be an indication that there is a low chance any particular inference will be relevant or helpful. Also if the number of web search results i.e. hits of the word phrase is too high then it may be an indication that the word phrase is too common to be used by itself to determine useful inferences.

The relationship between the number of different inferences found and the number of search result hits or the proportion of different inferences found to the number of search results hits may also be used as a factor in determining whether the certain threshold is met. Also the particular threshold may be user configurable through one or more user interfaces on the computing device.

Block may be followed by block . At block Display top inference s if the number of inferences and or web search result hits is below the certain threshold for the word phrase then the top inference or inferences for the word phrase are displayed in real time constraints or near real time constraints on the computing device see as an example . The inferences may also provide links to additional information regarding the inference and may include advertisements etc. related to the inference. The process then repeats starting with the step of also receiving the next word in the communication session e.g. form the voice to text engine .

Inferences may also be automatically fed back to the voice to text or voice recognition system to enhance the interpretation performance of such systems. For example the English phrases a narrow flight and an arrow flight may be indistinguishable even to humans in a quiet room but if an inference was made by the search engine inference based virtual assistance system that the speaker was just talking about Errol Flynn during the communication session the sentence is more likely about arrows. If an inference was made by the search engine inference based virtual assistance system that the speaker was talking about Dennis Lau an architect the sentence is probably about stairs which is something that may be determined based on the search relevance of the terms to each other.

Block may be followed by block . At block Combine word phrase if the number of inferences and or web search result hits is above a certain threshold for the word phrase then the word phrase is combined with one or more other neighboring words phrases in the inference term table to create a larger phrase. The neighboring words phrases may have been previously determined to be rare enough to be added to the inference term table but perhaps did not meet the threshold by themselves to have any related inferences displayed. Also if a neighboring word has not yet been added to the inference term table e.g. the neighboring word is to the right of the current word phrase then it may be read from a buffer used to store neighboring words or the process may wait until further inference terms are added to the inference term table.

For example if the number of inferences and or web search result hits are above a certain threshold for the word tool then the word is combined with the neighboring word power in the inference term table to the left of the word tool to create the longer phrase power tool .

The process then splits and automatically repeats starting with the step of determining the number of and most common inferences based on using the new combined word phrase in a web search while also receiving the next word in the communication session e.g. form the voice to text engine . In the example above the phrase power tool would be used as the search term in the web search which ostensibly would result in a fewer number of different inferences and total search result hits than tool did alone. As the process continues the word phrases being used in the web search may continue to grow by adding neighboring words in both directions until the number of inferences and or web search result hits are below the certain threshold for displaying the inferences or no additional words exist to combine. Alternatively the word phrases being used in the web search may continue to grow by only adding neighboring words either to the left or right of the current word phrase. Also there may be a limit placed on how large the phrase may grow before waiting for additional words to become available e.g. spoken during the communication session.

The process of may be utilized for example for determining inferences from words received by processing one text segment at a time from streaming text rather than as shown in the process of FIG. A. processing one word at a time from streaming text. The text segment may vary in size and may be selected by the user. At block Receive text segment from voice to text engine a text segment may be received from a voice to text engine. Block may be followed by block . At block Select rare words once the text segment is received from the voice to text engine or other communications application rare words of the text segment may be joined with any applicable neighboring adjectives or adverbs creating phrases as described above. The rare words may be selected as described above in reference to by assigning word rarity scores to the words within the text segment and selecting only those words having a rarity score above a pre determined threshold.

Block may be followed by block . At block Determine topical relatedness for each combination of selected words phrases with neighboring words phrases within the text segment the combination s topical relatedness is determined by using the combination as the search terms in a web search. Based on the number of hits received in the web search the topical relatedness of the word phrases in the combination may be determined . Generally the lower the number of hits resulting from the web search the lower the topical relatedness of the words phrases in the combination.

Block may be followed by block . At block Is topical relatedness below a pre determined threshold it then may be determined whether the topical relatedness of any combination is below a pre determined threshold based on the number of hits in the search results for the combination.

Block may be followed by block . At block Create larger selected phrases if there are no combinations in which the topical relatedness is below a pre determined threshold based on the number of hits in the search results then larger selected phrases are created by combining one or more neighboring words with a selected word phrase. This process may start with the first selected word phrase by combining it with the neighboring selected word phrase to create a larger word phrase for further combination. The process then repeats using the larger word phrase combination starting with the step of determining for each combination of selected words phrases with neighboring words phrases within the text segment the combination s topical relatedness.

Block may be followed by block . At block Add word phrase combinations as inference terms if there are any combinations in which the topical relatedness is below a pre determined threshold based on the number of hits in the search results then the applicable word phrase s i.e. those whose topical relatedness is below the pre determined threshold are added as inference terms in an inference term table. An example inference term table format appears below.

As shown in the inference term table above each word phrase is listed across the top and side of the table. The topical relatedness of combinations of word phrases may be automatically found in the table by looking up one word phrase of the word phrase combination in the column and going across the table until the column of the other word phrase of the word phrase combination is reached. The resulting location of the table then is one indication of the topical relatedness of the combination in terms of the number of hits in a web search of the combination. A comparatively lower number of hits for a particular combination may also serve as a general indication that the combination would have higher inference strength.

Block may be followed by block . At block Find least topically related inference the least topically related inference s for each combination of inference terms in the inference term table may then be found . Whether the system selects the single least topically related inference or a number of least topically related inferences may be selectable by the user. Various other automated techniques and processes for drawing inferences from analysis of web search results may be implemented as an alternative or in conjunction with those above.

Also the strength of the inference may be determined by checking the related inference of the search result output to the word phrase being used as the search term. For example if a web search on word phrase A returns a search result output B then B may be automatically searched to determine what proportion of search hits also involve A. If a high proportion of search hits involve A then the strength of the inference is determined to be stronger than if a lower proportion of search hits involve A.

Block may be followed by block . At block Strength of inference above threshold it is then determined whether the strength of the least topically related inference s for each combination is above a certain threshold and or the web search of the combination returns a number of hits below a certain threshold. Whether to determine either the strength is above a certain threshold or whether the web search hits for the combination are below a certain threshold or both depends on the quality and accurateness desired of the inferences ultimately displayed versus the quantity of inferences desired. If both the strength is above a certain threshold and whether the web search hits for the combination are below a certain threshold are to be determined it may increase the quality and accurateness of the inferences ultimately displayed but may reduce the quantity of inferences displayed. The threshold levels also affects this as a higher threshold for strength and a lower threshold for the number of hits may also result in increase the quality and accurateness of the inferences ultimately displayed but may reduce the quantity of inferences displayed. Whether to determine either the strength is above a certain threshold and or whether the web search hits for the combination are below a certain threshold as well as the threshold levels themselves may be user selectable.

If the strength of inference is not above a certain threshold and or the web search of the combination of inference terms does not return a number of hits below a certain threshold then block may be followed by block . The process above repeats starting with the step of creating larger selected phrases by combining one or more neighboring words in the text segment with a selected word phrase.

Block may be followed by block . At block Display top inference s if the strength of inference is above a certain threshold and or the web search of the combination of inference terms returns a number of hits below a certain threshold then the top inference or inferences for the word phrase combination are displayed on the computing device in real time or near real time constraints. The top inference or inferences may be determined and selected based upon the strength and commonality of the inferences as described above. The number of top inferences to display or whether to display only the top inference may also be a user configurable feature of the search engine inference based virtual assistance system.

Following block the process then repeats starting with receiving the next text segment from the voice to text engine or other communications application. However one or more word phrases from previously processed text segments may be left in the inference term table if so desired to increase the breadth of text being analyzed by taking into consideration word phrases from previously processed text segments. For example the word phrases left remaining in the inference term table from previously processed text segments may be those that are especially rare with respect to how many web search results are returned using such word phrases as search terms. Also there may be a limit on the number of times the same inference is displayed that may result in using word phrases previously added to the inference term table in combination with word phrases from new text segments.

Shown on the display screen of the mobile device is an example of search engine inference based virtual assistance being performed on an example communication session on the mobile device . The example communication session is a video chat session showing video or a still image of the remote user communicating to the mobile device by providing audio and video signal and or data to the device . The audio signal and or data received by the device may be converted to text locally by a voice to text engine resident on the mobile device as described above for example on a memory device of the mobile device that may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof or may have been previously converted and then sent as text along with the audio to the mobile device . The corresponding text is shown streaming within a text window on the display screen as the remote user is talking for example. As each inference term or combination of inference terms is identified in the search engine inference based virtual assistance processes described above these may be highlighted bracketed or otherwise indicated as inference terms or combinations within the text window . The associated number of web search hits returned using the corresponding inference term as a search term may also be displayed near the applicable inference terms in the text window . For example the inference term senator returned 68.4 million web search hits while the inference term Trinity University returned only 9 million hits.

Shown is an example inference being displayed on the display screen in real time or near real time constraints as the communication session is occurring on the mobile device . The particular inference Discussing Senator John Cornyn TX shown on the display screen below the text window is a result of the inference terms senator Trinity University and judge being recognized and processed in real time or near real time by the search engine inference based virtual assistance processes described above being performed on the current communication session shown on the mobile device . Additional information may also be displayed along with or near the inference such as a link to more detailed or related information regarding the inference and the relative strength of the inference. Other information displayed along with or near to the inference may include but is not limited to advertisements related to the inference options to store or further process the inference and other statistics regarding the inference .

Distributed computing may be utilized to share computer resources and or services by exchange between various computing devices and or systems. These resources and or services may include the exchange of information use of cache storage and or the use of disk storage for distributed file storage. Distributed computing may take advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the search engine inference based virtual assistance processes described herein.

The networked computing environment of may comprise a variety of devices such as one or more computing devices one or more objects and and or one or more databases . Each of these devices and may comprise or make use of programs methods data stores programmable logic etc. Computing device can be the mobile device of . However the devices and or may span portions of the same or different devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs mobile devices audio video devices MP3 players personal computers etc. Each device and can be adapted to communicate with another device and by way of the communications network . In this regard any device may be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element.

Communications network may itself comprise other computing entities that are configured to provide services to the system of and thus may represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with aspects of some embodiments each device and or may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware that is adapted to request services of one or more of the other devices and or .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely an example and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that may support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which is one example that provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any device and or can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s may be adapted to communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that may be used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. A computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the embodiments should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Depending on the desired configuration host processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . In some implementations the operating system may have a scheduler and be arranged to run one or more applications to perform the functions as described herein including those described with respect to at least the processes shown in and . Also application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system . Program data may include task related information such as without limitation task data related to executing instructions for performing search engine inference based virtual assistance. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports. In some implementations computing device includes a multi core processor which may communicate with the host processor through the interface bus .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems. The use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes systems or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware or firmware vehicle. If flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation. Yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software with or without firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

Herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

