---

title: Providing alternative content in a windowed environment
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to an architecture or extension to a window manager. In particular, the extension can provide for a window rotation feature that can be exposed as a rotate button. Additionally or alternatively, the rotation feature can be activated based upon a diverse set of conditions, events, and/or commands. Upon activation of the rotation feature, the window manager can rotate a window about an axis to expose a secondary surface that can be populated with alternative content that is distinct from the content of the primary surface of the window. In addition, the architecture provides techniques for identifying both double-sided graphical objects and potentially double-sided objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08516507&OS=08516507&RS=08516507
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08516507
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 451 filed Jan. 30 2012 entitled PROVIDING ALTERNATIVE CONTENT IN A WINDOWED ENVIRONMENT which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 810 filed Jun. 25 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 112 770 entitled PROVIDING ALTERNATIVE CONTENT IN A WINDOWED ENVIRONMENT and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 870 926 filed Dec. 20 2006 entitled ARCHITECTURES FOR SEARCH AND ADVERTISING. The disclosures of each of these applications is hereby incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

Conventionally in a windowed based environment such as a computer oriented desktop environment windows and other graphical objects that constitute portions of a user interface are substantially treated as single sided two dimensional objects. Some windows are expressly designed to appear like real world objects yet these virtual representations commonly lack certain features that are present in the real world objects. For instance some windows are expressly configured to appear as physical paper a physical note card a physical poster board etc. yet irrespective of the computer based features added to the window the window still lacks some of the features of a physical piece of paper.

While window managers associated with say an operating system typically employ numerous bells and whistles to dress up windows and provide numerous convenient options or features such conventional efforts still lack one of the properties of a physical object. In particular windows and many other two dimensional graphical user interface objects are thought of as single sided objects. In contrast even a common thin sheet of paper may be thought of as a two dimensional object yet a user of the paper inherently understands that the sheet of paper is double sided which is a notion that is not inherent in desktop computing environments.

Moreover while certain applications such as a solitaire card game for instance treat cards as double sided objects this aspect is implemented by the application and is not associated with a window manager feature. Accordingly this aspect only applies in the context of the application.

The following presents a simplified summary of the claimed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject matter disclosed and claimed herein in one aspect thereof comprises an extension to a computer implemented window manger for constructing double sided objects out of tradition single sided windows or other graphical objects in a manner that can be applied beyond the context of a single application. In accordance with one aspect of the claimed subject matter the window manager can be extended to include a rotation feature that can rotate a window substantially 180 degrees about an x or y axis in order to expose a secondary surface. The rotation feature can be implemented as a rotate button to be displayed and or accessible by various window types. The rotate button can signal the window manager to rotate a particular window yet it is to be appreciated that the window manager can rotate the window based upon other criteria as well.

In accordance with another aspect of the claimed subject matter the secondary surface can be populated with alternative content that can include advertisements rewards incentives coupons games or puzzles additional content associated with the original content of the window different formats or visualizations of the original content of the window and so forth. In addition the alternative content can be selected based upon a wide variety of criteria including but not limited to window size position demographics interaction histories a bidding model original window contents preferences and so on.

According to another aspect of the claimed subject matter an architecture can be provided for detecting windows that are double sided such as playing cards in a card game application as well as potentially double sided windows such as conventional windows icons menus tabs etc. For potentially double sided windows the architecture can select alternative content as well as appropriate times to display the alternative content by rotating the window to expose the secondary surface. For graphical objects detected to already be double sided objects the architecture can determine or infer whether one of the sides includes content that is non essential e.g. the pattern side of a playing card and overlay that side with the alternative content.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the claimed subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the claimed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject matter of select embodiments of the invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. But the description itself is not intended to necessarily limit the scope of claims. Rather the claimed subject matter might be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system window desktop or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

As used herein the terms to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Referring now to the drawing with reference initially to a computer implemented system that can extend an operating system window manager Application Programming Interface API is depicted. Generally the system can include an operating system window manager configured to display a window . The window manager can also display window contents for the window . The window contents can be referred to herein either collectively or individually as window content s even though each of the window contents can have unique characteristics that is distinguishing from other window contents . The window contents can be for example directories files informational features aesthetic features links utilities etc. The window contents are typically included within a primary surface of the window which is normally the total area encompassed by the window and further detailed in connection with infra.

The system can also include a rotation API that can extend the window manager . In accordance with one aspect of the claimed subject matter the rotation API can rotate the window about 180 degrees to expose a secondary surface not shown . For example the window can be a two dimensional window displayed within the context of a desktop operating environment wherein the window can be rotated about a y axis of course rotation about the x axis is equally possible to expose the backside or counter side which is referred to herein as the secondary surface. It is to be appreciated that the window need not be limited only to windows but can also include virtually any feature of a desktop user interface such as icons menus tabs e.g. tabs or icons in a task bar or side bar etc. splash screens etc. or even the entire desktop.

Irrespective of the particular embodiment conventional windows e.g. the conventional counterpart of window are typically thought of as single sided objects to display content. However the claimed subject matter introduces the notion that certain user interface objects e.g. window can have a secondary surface e.g. one or more additional surfaces that can be exposed under certain circumstances in order to reveal alternative content that can differ from the window content . Hence the claimed subject matter can be thought of as constructing double sided or multi sided objects out of traditional single sided windows or other graphical objects in a manner that can be applied beyond the context of a single application. It is also to be appreciated that the rotation API and or the window manager can output an audio object such as a swoosh sound in connection with rotating the window to reveal the secondary surface or alternative content both of which are further detailed with reference to .

With reference to a graphical representation of an example window can be found. It is to be appreciated that the illustrated window is merely exemplary in nature intended to provide one concrete example of a window but is not intended to be limiting as other types of window are contemplated e.g. icons menus tabs a desktop . . . and considered to be within the scope of the appended claims. As depicted the window can include a variety of window content such as files and folders links reference information etc. as well as aesthetic characteristics. The window content can include virtually any feature included within the primary surface and is typically managed by a window manager e.g. window manager from .

It can be appreciated that while the window is intended to be a virtual object for example existing within a desktop environment for a given computer operating system if the window existed as a physical object such as a piece of paper then an observer could turn or flip the paper over to reveal an entirely different surface potentially comprising additional content. By proxy extending this notion to a virtual domain the window can be rotated to expose a secondary surface as described more thoroughly infra with reference to .

Turning now to a computer implemented system with an extended window manager and a selection component is illustrated. The system can include the window manager that can display a window and associated window content on the primary surface of the window . In addition the window manager can include the rotation API that can rotate the window to expose a secondary surface as substantially described supra. The system can also include a selection component that can select alternative content for the window . For example the selection component can select alternative content for display on the secondary surface . The selection component can select the alternative content from a content store that can e.g. include all available and or potential alternative content and as will be further detailed infra the alternative content can be displayed on the secondary surface of the window e.g. after the window has been rotated to expose the secondary surface .

While still referencing but referring briefly to a variety of examples of alternative content are depicted. For example the alternative content can be an advertisement . The advertisement can be for a particular product or service or a more general trade or brand name advertisement. It is to be appreciated that the advertisement can be either related or entirely unrelated to the window content that is extant on the primary surface . As a second example the alternative content can be additional content information such as detailed properties e.g. location date history update data links contextual data . . . relating to the window content that are not displayed on the primary surface . For instance if the window is say an icon to launch an application the secondary surface can be programmatically assigned alternative content in a similar manner as the application vendor programs the features of the icon on the primary surface .

Additionally or alternatively the alternative content can be a format or schema from the window content . For example if a user appreciates different visualizations for window content a first preference can be set for the window content on the primary surface e.g. display window contents in a tiled format and a second preference can be set for the alternative content extant on the secondary surface e.g. to display window contents as a list . Accordingly the user can quickly switch between visualizations of the window contents by providing a convenient command described infra to rotate the window rather than manually setting and resetting the preferences each time a new view is desired.

Other forms of alternative content can include a reward or incentive . It is readily apparent that since alternative content can be advertisements associated advertisers will likely want to encourage users to view the alternative content e.g. by exposing the secondary surface as well as to prevent banner blindness . One or both of these objectives as well as others can be achieved by providing a potential for rewards such as free prizes redeemable points or the like or incentives such as coupons interesting information entertainment and so forth. Accordingly alternative content can also be a game such as trivia fun facts a puzzle etc. For example the window can be a dialog box the displays the progress of an installation or update of an application. A user could provide a command to rotate the dialog box to reveal a game to occupy the time while the application installs. It should be understood that rewards incentives and or games need not be associated with advertisers. For example an operating system provider or application provider or window manager provider could provide the rewards as a way of introducing features of the claimed subject matter to end users.

Still referring to it should be appreciated and understood that the alternative content e.g. residing in the content store can be dynamically updated by way of for example a wide area network such as the Internet by means of updater software or the like known in the art. Once the selection component selects the appropriate alternative content one of depending upon the actual implementation the window manager or the rotation API can adapt the alternative content for display within the secondary surface of window . In accordance therewith the window manager or the rotation API can rotate the window based upon an occurrence of an event thus exposing the secondary surface and exposing the alternative content . The text associated covers a number of the aforementioned aspects in greater detail and is indented to be read in connection with as well.

Turning now to a block diagram of a system that selects alternative content is shown. In particular system illustrates a variety of means by which the selection component can select the alternative content . In one aspect the alternative content can be selected based upon a size or dimensions of the window . For example the selection component may select an advertisement from a particular advertiser but chose from several distinct advertisements from that advertiser based upon the size or dimensions of the window . Continuing the example of an advertisement the selection component can select alternative content based upon demographic information related to a host computer or user of the computer. For instance the selection component can select an advertisement based upon passed purchases e.g. online purchases which can also be stored in the content store .

In addition while demographics information is a common feature in the domain of ad targeting the demographic information can be privacy centric. For example the content store can potentially be populated by a wide variety of information about the user s of the host computer such as past purchases but also other very rich information such as personal income expenses and other financial data e.g. included in financial applications or the like . While the common procedure for ad targeting is to disclose personal information to a third party which users are often loath to do the selection component can employ demographics information to select the ad without sharing the demographics information with the advertiser. Rather such information can remain private. Accordingly advertisers can provide ads but the ad targeting can be performed locally by a local and secure selection component .

In accordance with another aspect the alternative content can be selected based upon historical data associated with a user such as a history of behavior or the like. For example if the user generally immediately commands the secondary surface to be reverted back to the primary surface thereby providing a history of interaction that could suggest certain types of alternative content are not of interest the selection component can e.g. choose other types of alternative content . It is also to be appreciated that the alternative content can be selected in conjunction with the window contents e.g. window content . For instance the alternative content can be selected based upon a relationship with the window content located on the primary surface. The window can be e.g. a display for a media player wherein the window content is the output of a Digital Versatile Disc DVD and the secondary surface can include alternative content that is e.g. a commercial deleted scenes directory commentary or the like all of which are related to the window content .

According to another aspect of the claimed subject matter the selection component can select the alternative content based upon a time or location . As one example different alternative content can be selected based upon the time of the day e.g. an ad for a breakfast muffin versus an ad for a dinner entr e or based upon a location e.g. an ad for a local restaurant which can be especially useful in the case in which the host computer is a mobile device such as a cell phone or handheld device. Additionally the alternative content can be selected based upon a bidding model . For instance authors of alternative content can place bids to purchase the display of that particular alternative content . While this is especially useful for ad based alternative content such need not be the case. The bidding model can include bid price the content author s reputation the size of the secondary surface as well as other criteria well known in the ad auction space or other bid based domains. Finally the selection component can select the alternative content based upon preferences such as default preferences set by the provider of the window manager and or preferences chosen by a user of the host computer.

While a number of examples have been illustrated it is to be appreciated that the selection component can also employ other means of selecting the alternative content . Hence while the aspects described by reference numerals provide concrete examples for context these aspects are not intended to be limiting. Thus the selection component can employ any combination of the elements as well as other criteria. Moreover the system can also include an intelligence component that can be operatively coupled to or embedded within the selection component . Typically the intelligence component can aid in various determinations or inferences such as in this case aiding in selecting the alternative content based upon various criteria such as one or more of the elements .

In particular the intelligence component can examine the entirety or a subset of the data available and can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data.

Such inference can result in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs where the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

With reference now to a block diagram of a system that can rotate a window based upon an occurrence of an event is illustrated. Generally the system can include the window manager with the rotation API as substantially described supra. For example the window manager and or the rotation API can supply a rotate command in order to facilitate the rotation of window to expose the secondary surface as well as the alternative contents . The rotate command can be generated based upon an event .

In accordance with one aspect of the claimed subject matter the system can include an intelligence component as substantially described supra in connection with that is operatively connected to or embedded within at least one of the window manager or the rotation API . The intelligence component can provide for inferences in determining when to issue an event signifying that the window should be rotated to reveal the alternative content . The intelligence component can examine a variety of data and or data sets including but not limited to the elements as will be described.

In particular the intelligence component can obtain a mouse or other input device cursor position in order to determine whether an event should be issued. For example in some cases a mouse position included within the window may be an indication that the window is currently in use and should not be rotated. On the other hand such as when the window is say an icon or another user interface object that is not likely to provide substantial I O interaction a mouse hover can be indicative of a desire to see the secondary surface e.g. after the mouse has been over the window for a few moments without any other interaction. In addition the intelligence component can employ a quantum of time in order to provide an inference. For instance the event can be generated once during an initial time period for the display of window or the event could be generated periodically after a predetermined amount of time. In addition the intelligence component can employ time in order to infer how long to expose the secondary surface as well as what actions or behavior on the part of a user will revert the window back to the primary surface and or window content .

Similar to the notion of a mouse position the intelligence component can also rely upon a determination of the active window or the window that is currently selected from which to send or receive information. For example several windows can be simultaneously visible to a user but typically only one window is active at a given time. Hence the intelligence component can infer that the active window should not be rotated but that the other non active windows can be. In contrast potentially based upon other criteria the intelligence component can infer that the active window should be rotated as well.

It is to be appreciated that some windows e.g. non active windows may be partially or entirely occluded e.g. percent occluded by other windows most commonly by an active window which is normally on top of other windows . In the case of an entirely occluded window the intelligence component can determine that no rotation event need be generated since the alternative content would be occluded as well. However in some cases the intelligence component can signal that the occluded window can be temporarily brought to the front such that the alternative content can be visible. In the case where the window is partially occluded the intelligence component can also bring the window to the front. Additionally or alternatively the intelligence component can create a pseudo window not shown comprising the portions that are not occluded and allow the window manager to adapt alternative content for secondary surface with the dimensions of the pseudo window and rotate only that portion of the window .

According to another aspect the intelligence component can also utilize other interaction or behavior in order to ascertain whether or not to generate an event . For example if the intelligence component infers that a user of the host computer is engaged in work or another task oriented endeavor it can be inferred that an unsolicited event may not be appropriate. However if the user is engaged in an event that is not task oriented then the event even unsolicited can be appropriate.

In accordance with another aspect of the claimed subject matter the event can be based upon a command issued by a user e.g. directly solicited of the host computer such as e.g. a command from a mouse or other input device of the host computer. Such a case can be further detailed with reference to .

Turning now to an example system that can display a window with embedded rotation features is depicted. The system can include the window manager that can display a window . In addition the system can include the rotation API that can rotate a window to expose a secondary surface and or reveal alternative content included within the secondary surface. A common feature associated with conventional windows is a group of easily accessible commands to close move resize maximize restore or minimize the window. Oftentimes these commands can be referenced by clicking a convenient button normally along the upper border of the window.

Reference numeral shows an example close button to close e.g. destroy the window . Conventional systems generally remove the window when a user clicks on the close button although in many cases a window manager will accompany this action with some sort of animation. Reference numeral depicts a restore button that restore a window that is maximized to a smaller size generally with the position and dimensions the window held before it was maximized. If the window is not currently maximized the min max button will typically maximize the window . In either case it is common to accompany this action as well with some type of brief animation. Reference numeral denotes an example minimize button for which activation will generally remove the window from the display where the window can be redisplayed by clicking a tab in e.g. a task bar. As with the other buttons and activating the minimize button is generally accompanied by an animation such as the window shrinking down to the task bar or some other location where it can be later referenced.

In accordance with an aspect of the claimed subject matter a command to close minimize maximize or restore can serve as the event from . For example in addition to or in the alternative to some animation to signify that the window is closing being minimized etc. the window manager can rotate the window before closing minimizing etc. the window thereby revealing alternative content in a non invasive manner. Moreover conventional windows generally allow a user to resize or reposition the window. Generally a window can be resized by moving the mouse cursor near an edge of the window until the cursor changes shape to indicate a click and drag motion will resize the window. Similarly the window is often repositioned by clicking on the upper bar and dragging the window to a new position. In both cases there are standard features in many desktop environments to allow a user to select a preference to display the contents of the window while repositioning or resizing or to make the contents transparent during that procedure. The claimed subject matter provides for displaying alternative contents during the aforementioned procedures.

In addition the rotation API can instruct the window manager to display a rotate button . The rotate button can be inserted in any appropriate window which can be based upon a common scheme and or inferred e.g. by the intelligence component . The rotate button can serve as a manual command to generate the event . For example given that the alternative content can be very useful informative and or entertaining the rotate button can allow convenient access to the alternative content in a manner employed by conventional buttons . While the rotate button provides one example it is to be appreciated that other means can be provided to allow a user to reveal the alternative content. For example the rotate feature can be mapped to a mouse button e.g. a side or back button placed in an action bar menu placed in a context menu e.g. accessed by a right click on the window or substantially any other means.

Referring to a computer implemented system that can facilitate display of alternative content is depicted. Although not shown the system can interface with the window manager and or rotation API of for example as well as a content store that can be substantially similar to the content store . Generally the system can include an analysis component that can identify a computer based graphical object that is a double sided object or a potentially double sided object . As used herein a double sided object can be a graphical object that is employed as a double sided item. One example of a double sided object is a graphical representation of a playing card associated with a computer based card game which will be further discussed in connection with . However it is to be appreciated that other embodiments of double sided objects can exist and are to be considered within the scope and spirit of the appended claims. In contrast a potentially double sided object is used herein to refer to a graphical object that is implemented as a single sided object and thus a secondary side potentially exists. Examples of potentially double sided object can include as well as the description associated with such as icons menus tabs splash screens or even the entire desktop.

In addition the system can include a content component that can select alternative content to be displayed on a secondary side of the graphical object. The content component can select the appropriate alternative content in a manner substantially similar to that described in connection with the selection component from . Hence as with the selection component the content component can employ inferences and or be operatively associated with the intelligence component in order to facilitate selection of the alternative content which as well can be housed in a content store substantially similar to the content store .

While still referring to but turning also to a computer implemented system for displaying alternative content is illustrated. The system can include a graphical object which can be either a double sided object or a potentially double sided object . In the instant figure the graphical object is a double sided object since the object is already implemented with two sides a primary side e.g. the important side with unique characteristics or properties and the secondary side which includes a card pattern for content and is not of vital importance. It is to be appreciated that the analysis component can infer and or make a determination as to which side of the graphical object is the primary side and which side is the secondary side . Once the secondary side is determined for the case in which the graphical object is a potentially double sided object this determination is trivial a rendering component can display the alternative content e.g. supplied by the content component on the secondary side of the graphical object .

It is to be appreciated that in the case of a double sided object as is the case in the original content e.g. the deck pattern design can be overwritten with the alternative content. It is to be further appreciated that the rendering component can overwrite the original content in a manner that is independent from the application or API that instantiated the graphical object . Thus while claimed subject matter can function at an operating system window manager level to provide additional content rather than at the application level.

Turning now to an exemplary computer implemented method for extending an operating system window manager API is illustrated. In general at reference numeral alternative content to be displayed on a secondary surface of a graphical object can be selected. It should be understood that the alternative content can be selected from a very broad data set that can include e.g. advertisements additional content information associated with the original window content different visualizations for the original content rewards incentives trivia games puzzles and so on. In addition the alternative content can be selected based upon numerous criteria including but not limited to a size or dimensions of the window demographic information associated with a user or machine a history of interaction a relationship with the original window content a time or location a bidding model designated preferences or the like. Accordingly the broad data set and or the numerous criteria can be included in a content store.

In addition at reference numeral the secondary surface can be overlaid with the alternative content. In accordance therewith when the secondary surface is exposed alternative content can be revealed.

With reference now an exemplary computer implemented method with additional features for extending an operating system window manager API is depicted. Generally at reference numeral a double sided graphical object can be identified. For example a double sided graphical object can be a graphical object specifically implemented to include two sides such as a representation of a playing card associated with a computer based game. At reference numeral potential double sided graphical objects can be identified. For instance graphical object that are implemented as single sided objects can be in many cases potential double sided graphical objects.

At reference numeral the alternative content e.g. selected based upon act of can be adapted for display within the secondary surface of the graphical object or in some cases selected portions of the secondary surface e.g. when some percentage of the window including the primary secondary surfaces is occluded . It is to be appreciated that a window manager can perform the act of adapting in some instances while in others an extension to the windows manager in the form of a rotation API can perform the act of adapting. At reference numeral the graphical object can be rotated about an axis e.g. an x or y axis to expose the secondary surface and thus revealing the alternative content.

Turning briefly to an exemplary computer implemented method with additional features for extending an operating system window manager API is depicted. At reference numeral a window rotation feature can be implemented in an operating system window manager. For example the window manager can be extended with a rotation API that can rotate a window about an axis to expose a new surface e.g. the secondary surface that can include distinct content e.g. alternative content . At reference numeral the window rotation feature can be exposed as a rotation icon or button. The rotation button can exist by itself or can be in addition to other function buttons such as buttons to close minimize restore or maximize the underlying window.

At reference numeral the window rotation feature can be activated based upon receiving an event. In accordance with one aspect of the claimed subject matter the event is at least one of a command or an inference. In the case of the former the command can be in the form of a click on or input to the rotation button described supra as well as a input to another function button e.g. the minimize maximize or close buttons as well as input to an action menu or context menu. In the case of the latter where the event is based upon an inference the inference can be constructed based upon a variety of factors such as those inferences described in connection with the intelligence component above.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of an exemplary computer system operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the claimed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the claimed subject matter can be implemented. Additionally while the claimed subject matter described above can be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the claimed subject matter also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media. Computer storage media can include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other device which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Computer readable media as used herein is understood to be exclusive of communications media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples to system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the claimed subject matter.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the claimed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 13 BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computer compilation system operable to execute the disclosed architecture. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the claimed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the claimed subject matter for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the detailed description is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the embodiments. In this regard it will also be recognized that the embodiments includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

