---

title: Systems and methods to manage zooming
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to manage zooming in an electronic device. An example embodiment method includes receiving an input to increase or decrease a zoom level in an application. If it is determined the application includes a local zoom functionality, then it is further determined if a global zoom functionality is turned on. If so, the global zoom is turned off and then the local zoom is used to increase or decrease the zoom level. In another example embodiment, a method includes receiving an input to activate global zoom. If it is determined the global zoom is turned on, then the global zoom is activated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09435801&OS=09435801&RS=09435801
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09435801
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120518
---
Many electronic devices including mobile devices include applications. An application may have a zoom feature. In some cases a zoom feature is not provided. Generally zooming refers to increasing or decreasing the scale of a viewed area on the electronic device in order to see more detail or less. For example if an image or if text is too small to see then a user can zoom into the image or text thereby increasing the image size or text size being displayed on the electronic device.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the example figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the example embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the example embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the example embodiments described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the example embodiments described herein.

For the purposes of the present description assistive technology or an assistive technology application is an application that may be used on an electronic device to assist a user in interacting with the electronic device. For example a screen reader is an assistive technology application. Screen magnifiers self voicing applications and customized graphical user interfaces to alter colors and sizes of desktops short cut icons menu bars and scroll bars are other examples. Yet other examples are optical character recognition to convert the printed word into text via a scanner Braille translation to convert the printed word into Braille text to speech speech to text spell checkers and grammar checkers. Assistive technology may be used to assist users dealing with blindness vision impairment colorblindness deafness hearing impairment speech impairment motor impairments and cognitive or learning disabilities.

Applications compatible with assistive technology applications are also known as accessible applications. Accessible applications work with assistive technology applications to provide the feature offered by the assistive technology for the given accessible application.

An electronic device having a display screen or connected to a display screen can be used to control the zooming of images being displayed. Zooming generally refers to increasing or decreasing the scale of a viewed area on the electronic device in order to see more detail or less.

In an example embodiment applications on the electronic device may have their respective zooming capabilities. These are herein referred to as local zoom . For example a game application on an electronic device has local zoom capabilities. As a user zooms into a scene or an image of the game graphics rendering may be used to increase the size of objects and show the objects in greater detail. In an example embodiment a local zoom action is only particular to some of the content. In an example embodiment the local zoom does not increase or decrease the zooming or zoom level on other content.

For example the content displayed by a game application includes graphics for a virtual world and user controls for navigating within the virtual world. A user can use local zoom to zoom into the graphics for the virtual world but the controls will remain the same size. In other words the local zoom does not affect the size of the controls.

It is recognized that users may desire to have all content displayed on a screen to be increased or decreased in size. For example a user may wish to zoom into the controls of the game application to better view the controls. The controls for example can be too small to see and thus difficult to determine their meaning.

In an example embodiment an electronic device includes global zoom functionality. Global zoom refers to an ability to zoom in on all content displayed on a screen. In an example embodiment global zoom can be applied to all applications and thus can be used to supplement or replace local zoom.

For example some applications on an electronic device do not have local zoom. Global zoom can be used with such applications to increase or decrease the zoom level.

In an example embodiment the zoom level refers to a percentage of increase or decrease of size compared to the original image size. For example a zoom level of 200 represents zooming in to the image so that the image is twice as large as the original image. A zoom level of 50 represents zooming out of the image so that the image is half the size as the original image.

It is recognized that managing the use of global zoom and local zoom can be difficult including determining when and how to employ one of global and local zoom in an application.

Turning to an example embodiment of an electronic device is provided. It includes an accessibility application which further includes a global zoom module .

In some example embodiments the accessibility application has the ability to send and receive data items via a wireless network. In some example embodiments information is provided on an external server not shown and used by the accessibility application which accesses the information through the wireless network. In an example embodiment the accessibility application has the ability to determine if a new application being launched is an accessible application and if so enable at least one assistive technology feature at launch of the application. The accessibility application can also determine if assistive technology is present on the electronic device . In another example embodiment it can also determine if an assistive technology is in use by the user of the electronic device. In another example embodiment the accessibility application is involved in the process of determining if the assistive technology feature should be enabled or disabled and is involved in the process of the enablement or disablement.

An example embodiment of an assistive technology is zooming as provided by the global zoom module . The global zoom module facilitates global zooming for all content displayed on or by the electronic device . It can be appreciated that a display screen not shown can be integrated with the electronic device or connected to the electronic device .

The electronic device also includes applications. An example application includes local zoom functionality . Another application does not include local zoom functionality. The applications e.g. interact with the accessibility application and the global zoom module .

In an example embodiment the applications e.g. interact with the accessibility application through an accessibility Application Programming Interface API . The accessibility API allows the applications to provide information to the various assistive technology applications including the global zoom module . In some example embodiments the accessibility API is not needed. For example standard user interface components automatically provide information to assistive technology applications.

In an example embodiment an application communicates with the accessibility application to determine if global zoom is turned on or turned off. A message which includes a value e.g. Boolean value is returned to the application which indicates whether global zoom is turned on or turned off.

If global zoom is used the application interacts with the global zoom module to increase or decrease the zoom or zoom level.

In an example embodiment the interaction between an application and the global zoom module can occur through a global zoom API .

It can be appreciated that various mobile devices can be used with the example embodiments described herein. Examples of applicable electronic devices include pagers tablets cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers camera devices and the like. Such devices will hereinafter be commonly referred to as mobile devices for the sake of clarity. It will however be appreciated that the example embodiments described herein are also suitable for other devices e.g. non mobile devices. The non mobile devices may include for example a desktop computer. More generally both non mobile and mobile devices are referred to as electronic devices . Such terms can be interchangeable.

In an example embodiment the mobile device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The mobile device may also have the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities .

Referring to any of mobile devices and may be used to implement the example embodiments disclosed herein. It will be appreciated that the numeral will hereinafter refer to any electronic device including the example embodiments and those example embodiments enumerated above or otherwise.

It will also be appreciated that for a similar numbering convention may be used for other general features common between such as a display a positioning device a cancel or escape button a camera a camera button and a menu or option button .

The mobile device shown in includes a display a cursor or view positioning device and a camera . Shown in this example embodiment are a front facing camera and an optical track pad . In another example embodiment the positioning device is a track ball not shown . In yet another example embodiment the camera is a back facing camera not shown . Positioning device may serve as another input member and detects the displacement of a finger that is moving on top of it to provide selection inputs to the main processor see . It can also be pressed in a direction generally toward housing to provide another selection input to the processor . The optical track pad permits multi directional positioning of the selection cursor see such that the selection cursor can be moved in an upward direction in a downward direction and if desired and or permitted in any diagonal direction. The optical track pad is in this example situated on the front face of a housing for mobile device as shown in to enable a user to manoeuvre the optical track pad while holding the mobile device in one hand. The optical track pad may serve as another input member in addition to a directional or positioning member to provide selection inputs to the processor and can preferably be pressed in a direction towards the housing of the mobile device to provide such a selection input.

The display may include a selection cursor that depicts generally where the next input or selection will be received. The selection cursor may include a box alteration of an icon or any combination of features that enable the user to identify the currently chosen icon or item. The mobile device in also includes a programmable convenience button to activate a selected application such as for example a calendar or calculator. Further mobile device includes an escape or cancel button a camera button a menu or option button and a keyboard . The camera button is able to activate photo capturing functions when pressed preferably in the direction towards the housing. The menu or option button loads a menu or list of options on display when pressed. In this example the escape or cancel button the menu option button and keyboard are disposed on the front face of the mobile device housing while the convenience button and camera button are disposed at the side of the housing. This button placement enables a user to operate these buttons while holding the mobile device in one hand. The keyboard is in this example embodiment a standard QWERTY keyboard.

The mobile device shown in includes a display a camera and a cursor or view positioning device . Shown in this example embodiment is a front facing camera and an optical track pad . In another example embodiment the positioning device is a track ball not shown . In yet another example embodiment the camera is a back facing camera not shown . The mobile device also includes a menu or option button a cancel or escape button and a camera button . The mobile device as illustrated in includes a reduced QWERTY keyboard . In this example embodiment the keyboard positioning device escape button and menu button are disposed on a front face of a mobile device housing. The reduced QWERTY keyboard includes a plurality of multi functional keys and corresponding indicia including keys associated with alphabetic characters corresponding to a QWERTY array of letters A to Z and an overlaid numeric phone key arrangement.

It will be appreciated that for the mobile device a wide range of one or more positioning or cursor view positioning mechanisms such as a touch pad a positioning wheel a joystick button a mouse a touch screen a set of arrow keys a tablet an accelerometer for sensing orientation and or movements of the mobile device etc. or other whether presently known or unknown may be employed. Similarly any variation of keyboard may be used. It will also be appreciated that the mobile devices shown in are for illustrative purposes only and various other mobile devices are equally applicable to the following examples. For example other mobile devices may include the trackball escape button and menu or option button similar to that shown in only with a full or standard keyboard of any type. Other buttons may also be disposed on the mobile device housing such as colour coded Answer and Ignore buttons to be used in telephonic communications. In another example the display may itself be touch sensitive thus itself providing an input mechanism in addition to display capabilities.

The mobile device shown in includes a touch sensitive display and a front facing camera . The touch sensitive display includes a touch sensitive non display area surrounding a touch sensitive display area both of which may be capable of receiving inputs in the form of touch inputs. The front facing camera points towards the user of the mobile device . Although not shown in it can be appreciated that the mobile device may also have a back facing camera.

It can be appreciated that the devices shown in can have both a front facing camera and a back facing camera.

To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the mobile device reference will now be made to .

Referring first to shown therein is a block diagram of an example embodiment of a mobile device which may be used to implement the example embodiments disclosed herein. The mobile device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this example embodiment of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards which is used worldwide. Other communication configurations that are equally applicable are the 3G and 4G networks such as EDGE UMTS and HSDPA LTE Wi Max etc. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behaviour described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the example embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone a GPS receiver short range communications a camera a camera light or flash and other device subsystems .

The mobile device includes an actuator that can create a tactile response. For example the actuator is a vibrator that creates a vibrating feel.

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device may use a subscriber module component or smart card such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM a Removable User Identity Module RUIM and a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM . In the example shown a SIM RUIM USIM is to be inserted into a SIM RUIM USIM interface in order to communicate with a network. Without the component the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . Once the SIM RUIM USIM is inserted into the SIM RUIM USIM interface it is coupled to the main processor .

The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some example embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications may be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Software applications may include a message application a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM a connect module and an IT policy module . A message application can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile device to send and receive electronic messages wherein messages are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile device . A device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power. A PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events and voice mails and may interact with the wireless network . A connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile device is authorized to interface with. An IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy and may be responsible for organizing and securing rules such as the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy.

Other types of software applications or components can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be pre installed applications i.e. other than message application or third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities video chat applications etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem .

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

For voice communications received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The display can also be used in combination with the camera to provide video chatting capability. It can be appreciated that the mobile device may include more than one camera . For example a front facing camera a back facing camera or both may be used to engage in a video chatting session. It can also be appreciated that the camera may be an external hardware component operably connected to the mobile device through the auxiliary I O or the data port .

Turning now to the mobile device may display a home screen which can be set as the active screen when the mobile device is powered up and may constitute the main ribbon application. The home screen generally includes a status region and a theme background which provides a graphical background for the display . The theme background displays a series of icons in a predefined arrangement on a graphical background. In some themes the home screen may limit the number of icons shown on the home screen so as to not detract from the theme background particularly where the background is chosen for aesthetic reasons. The theme background shown in provides a grid of icons. It will be appreciated that preferably several themes are available for the user to select and that any applicable arrangement may be used. An example icon may be a settings icon used to indicate the capability of changing settings for an application such as the accessibility application . One or more of the series of icons is typically a folder that itself is capable of organizing any number of applications therewithin.

The status region in this example embodiment includes a date time display . The theme background in addition to a graphical background and the series of icons also includes a status bar . The status bar provides information to the user based on the location of the selection cursor e.g. by displaying a name for the icon that is currently highlighted.

An application such as message application may be initiated opened or viewed from display by highlighting a corresponding icon using the positioning device and providing a suitable user input to the mobile device . For example message application may be initiated by moving the positioning device such that the icon is highlighted by the selection box as shown in and providing a selection input e.g. by pressing the trackball

Another example application is the accessibility application including the global zoom module . The global zoom module in an example embodiment is in communication with a database including global zoom states a database including global zoom gestures and a database including global zoom levels.

Global zoom states include whether global zoom is turned on or off. In another example embodiment it also includes whether global zoom is active or not. Global zoom gestures include various gestures relating to controlling global zoom. In an example embodiment the gestures are touch screen gestures. Global zoom levels include default zoom settings and saved global zoom settings. In an example embodiment the saved global zoom settings are provided by a user.

It will be appreciated that any module or component exemplified herein that executes instructions or operations may include or otherwise have access to computer readable media such as storage media computer storage media or data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data except transitory propagating signals per se. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by an application module or both. Any such computer storage media may be part of the electronic device or accessible or connectable thereto. Any application or module herein described may be implemented using computer readable executable instructions or operations that may be stored or otherwise held by such computer readable media.

In an example embodiment a method performed by an electronic device is provided to manage zooming. It includes receiving an input to increase or decrease a zoom in an application determining if the application includes a local zoom if so determining if a global zoom is turned on and if so turning off the global zoom and increasing or decreasing the zoom using the local zoom.

In an example embodiment the method further includes receiving an input to turn on the global zoom and turning on the global zoom. In an example embodiment a graphical user interface GUI is provided to receive the input to turn on the global zoom and to receive an input to turn off the global zoom. In an example embodiment the application determines if the global zoom is turned on by receiving a value from a global zoom module indicating whether the global zoom is turned on or turned off. In an example embodiment if the application does not include the local zoom the method includes increasing or decreasing the zoom using the global zoom. In an example embodiment after detecting the zoom is increased to a maximum zoom level using the global zoom the method further includes activating a tactile alert. In an example embodiment if the global zoom is turned off the method includes increasing or decreasing the zoom using the local zoom.

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions is provided for managing global zoom and local zoom. At block the electronic device receives an input to increase or decrease the zoom or zoom level. At block the device determines if there is a local zoom functionality on the application. If not at block global zoom is used. If the application does have local zoom at block it is determined if the global zoom is turned on.

In an example embodiment the application can send a request to the accessibility application to determine the state of global zoom. The accessibility application then retrieves a value from the database which indicates whether or not the global zoom is turned on. The accessibility application returns the value to the application.

If it is determined that global zoom is not turned on e.g. turned off then local zoom is used to increase or decrease the zoom block . Otherwise the global zoom is turned off block and local zoom is used to increase or decrease the zoom block .

In an example embodiment the application sends a message to the global zoom module to turn off global zoom. The turned off state of the global zoom is updated in the database .

In an example embodiment it can be appreciated that the global zoom setting can be turned on and off using a GUI. This is described in further detail with respect to .

In some other example embodiments there is state in which the global zoom is turned on and within that state there are further states in which global zoom is activated or not activated. In other words global zoom can be turned on but may not be activated. In another state global zoom can be turned on and is also activated. However if global zoom is turned off global zoom cannot be activated.

If global zoom is activated the zooming functionality behaves according to the global zoom module . If global zoom is not activated other zooming e.g. local zoom or no zooming functionality is used.

Turning to an illustration shows the relationship between the state in which global zoom is turned on and the state in which global zoom is active. In particular encompassed within the state defined by global zoom being turned on are the states defined by global zoom being activated and global zoom being deactivated.

In an example embodiment a method performed by an electronic device is provided to manage zooming. It includes receiving an input to activate global zoom determining if the global zoom is turned on and if so activating the global zoom.

In an example embodiment the method further includes before receiving the input activate the global zoom receiving an input to turn on the global zoom and turning on the global zoom. In an example embodiment a GUI is provided to receive the input to turn on the global zoom and to receive an input to turn off the global zoom. In an example embodiment if the global zoom is not turned on the global zoom is not activated. In an example embodiment the input to activate global zoom includes detecting two fingers swiping a touch screen of the electronic device downwards from a top area of the touch screen. In an example embodiment the method includes after activating the global zoom detecting two fingers swiping a touch screen of the electronic device and panning a viewport in a direction of the two fingers swipe. In an example embodiment the method includes after detecting a zoom is increased to a maximum zoom level using the global zoom activating a tactile alert. In an example embodiment the global zoom applies to a plurality of applications on the electronic device. In an example embodiment at least one of the plurality of applications includes a local zoom. In an example embodiment the method includes receiving an input to increase or decrease a zoom in an application determining if the application includes a local zoom if so determining if the global zoom is activated if so deactivating the global zoom and increasing or decreasing the zoom using the local zoom. In an example embodiment after detecting the global zoom is activated displaying a prompt to use the local zoom or the global zoom if an input associated with the prompt is received to use the local zoom deactivating the global zoom and increasing or decreasing the zoom using the local zoom. In an example embodiment the method further includes if an input associated with the prompt is received to use the global zoom increasing or decreasing the zoom using the global zoom. In an example embodiment the method includes after determining the global zoom is turned on determining if there is a saved global zoom setting and if so using the global zoom to increase or decrease the zooming to the saved global zoom setting. In an example embodiment the saved global zoom setting was saved during a previous use of the global zoom.

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions is provided for activating global zoom.

At block the electronic device receives an input to turn on global zoom. At block the global zoom functionality is turned on. At block the electronic device receives an input to activate global zoom. At block it is determined if the global zoom is turned on. If not at block no action is taken. If global zoom is turned on at block global zoom is activated.

Turning to an example embodiment of a GUI is provided for turning on and turning off global zoom. The GUI can be accessed through the accessibility application . In an example embodiment selecting the icon can lead to the display of the GUI . The GUI includes a control for turning on and off the global zoom. In the control shows that the on state is currently selected. However selecting the control would change the global zoom state to off .

In an example embodiment the GUI is used to control the on and off states that are stored in the database .

When global zoom is turned on a number of gestures can be used to control zooming and panning. Such gestures can be stored for example in the database . Example embodiments of such gestures include those for activating global zoom increasing or decreasing zoom panning the viewport and deactivating global zoom.

Turning to an example embodiment of a gesture is shown for activating global zoom. In other words it is an example embodiment of an input used to activate global zoom. It includes detecting two fingers swiping downwards from a top area of a touch screen display on the electronic device . In an example embodiment of the mobile device shown in the top area includes the top area of the touch sensitive non display area . In another example embodiment another gesture is used to activate the global zoom. In some example embodiments the same gesture is used to also deactivate global zoom. In other words using two fingers to swipe downwards from the top area can be used to activate global zoom and if the gesture is repeated can be used to deactivate global zoom.

Turning to an example embodiment of a pinching gesture is shown which is used to decrease the zoom level. For example it zooms out of the image.

Turning to an example embodiment of a gesture of two fingers spreading apart thereby increasing the zoom level. For example use of such a gesture zooms into the image.

Turning to an example embodiment of a two finger swipe is used to pan a viewport. In an example embodiment the viewport is a viewing area or the visible portion of a 2D area. In some example embodiments the 2D area is a different size compared to the display screen for example when increasing or decreasing the zoom level. The viewport can be panned in different directions. The viewport is panned while global zoom is active. In an example embodiment if global zoom is not activated and a user uses the two finger swipe shown in that gesture may not lead to any action or may cause another action different from panning the viewport.

Turning to an example embodiment of a two finger downwards swipe to the bottom area of the touch screen display is shown. In an example embodiment this gesture is used to deactivate global zoom.

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions are provided for adjusting zoom to a saved global zoom setting. At block an input is received to activate global zoom. At block it is determined if global zoom is turned on. If not no action is taken block . At block if global zoom is turned on it is determined if there is a previously saved global zoom setting. If not at block the zoom of the image is automatically adjusted on the display screen to a default global zoom setting. If there is a saved global zoom setting at block the zoom of the image on the display screen is adjusted to the saved global zoom setting. Both the default and saved global zoom settings can be stored in the database .

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions is provided for saving a global zoom setting which can be retrieved later for use such as described in .

At block global zoom is activated. At block the electronic device receives an input to increase or decrease global zoom. The global zoom setting is accordingly increased or decreased. At block an input is received to close an application within which global zoom was activated. Or an input is received to deactivate global zoom. At block the current global zoom setting is saved for example in the database . The global zoom setting may be a percentage representing the magnification increase or decrease. The application is then closed or the global zoom is then deactivated.

In other words the last saved global zoom setting that a user has selected is used next time when global zoom is re activated. For example if the global zoom setting is at 320 when an application is closed or the global zoom is deactivated then next time when the global zoom is reactivated the application will automatically zoom the image to 320 magnification.

In an example embodiment the global zoom setting is saved with respect to a given application. In other words each application has an associated global zoom setting. For example in a first application a saved global zoom setting is 150 . In a second application a saved global zoom setting is 300 . Therefore when next activating global zoom in the first application the image on the screen is zoomed into by 150 . When switching applications to the second application global zoom may not be activated. If activating global zoom in the second application the global zoom setting is used to zoom in by 300 .

Turning to in an example embodiment screen shots and show the automatic zooming process when activating global zoom. In the screen shot an image of a person and an image of another person are shown. The screen shot also includes a status bar which shows battery power time and connectivity. The images in the screen shot are shown at 100 of their original size. An input is received for activating the global zoom. In the example embodiment the input includes detecting two fingers swiping the touch screen from the top area of the device.

After detecting the input the global zoom is activated and the images are automatically zoomed into using the saved global zoom setting. As can be seen in the screen shot the images and are larger than their counterparts and . Similarly the status bar is larger than its counterpart

Turning to an example embodiment of panning is provided. Upon detecting a two finger swipe in the screen shot while global zoom is activated the electronic device moves the viewport in the same direction as the swipe. The screen shot is shown with the image translated or panned towards one side.

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions is provided for determining whether to use local zoom or global zoom. In this example embodiment even if global zoom is active local zoom is used to override the global zoom. This can be useful if local zoom offers better rendering of details when zooming into an image.

It can be appreciated that in some example embodiments local zoom algorithms of an application interact with the content being displayed by the application. By using information about the type of content e.g. font text data image data color variation size shape etc. a greater amount of detail can be displayed when zooming into content with local zoom.

In an example embodiment global zoom is generic and unaware of the details of the content being displayed. The zooming capability of global zoom operates by enlarging the image shown on the display screen. Therefore in some cases it may be preferred to use local zoom over global zoom in order to show more detail.

Continuing with at block an input to increase or decrease zoom is detected within an application. In an example embodiment the input is a pinching or spreading gesture using two fingers on a touch screen. At block the electronic device determines if there is local zoom functionality on the application. If not global zoom is used block . If there is local zoom functionality on the application at block the electronic device determines if the global zoom functionality is currently activated. If not at block the local zoom is used. It the global zoom is activated at block it is deactivated. The local zoom functionality is then used to increase or decrease the zoom level according to the input.

In another example embodiment an option is provided to select between local zoom or global zoom. In another example embodiment global zoom is used to override local zoom. This may be useful if a user would like all the content on the display screen to be enlarged. For example local zoom may in some cases only zoom in and out of certain content but leave other content size the same.

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions is provided for selecting between local and global zoom. Blocks and are implemented and they are described earlier with respect to . If global zoom is activated as per block then at block a prompt is displayed for the user to select local zoom or global zoom. If local zoom is selected as per the prompt then local zoom is used to increase or decrease the zoom block . If global zoom is selected then global zoom is used to increase or decrease the zoom block .

In another example embodiment upon determining that the global zoom is activated as per dotted line the process automatically continues using the global zoom block . In other words there is no prompt.

Turning to an example screen shot is shown including a prompt GUI . The prompt for example can be a pop up display. The prompt includes controls and for selecting one of global zoom and local zoom.

The prompt GUI can also include an option to remember the user s selection. For example if the user selects or checks off the option and selects the control for global zoom in future instances global zoom will be used. For example referring briefly back to at block after determining that global zoom is activated the electronic device will automatically select global zoom block according to the previously saved setting as per the user. The prompt will not be initiated.

Similarly if the user selects the option to save the setting and also selects local zoom then local zoom will be used in future instances. For example referring briefly back to at block after determining that global zoom is activated the electronic device will automatically select local zoom block according to the previously saved setting as per the user. The prompt will not be initiated.

Turning to an example embodiment of computer executable or processor implemented instructions is provided for selecting global zoom or local zoom. The selected zooming function is shown through an indicator.

At block the electronic device determines if there is local zoom functionality with respect to a given application. If not no action is taken block . If so at block an indicator is displayed that one of global zoom and local zoom is currently active. At block an input is received to select the other one of global zoom and local zoom. At block the other one of global zoom and local zoom is activated over the one of global zoom and local zoom. At block the electronic device displays an indicator that the other one of global zoom and local zoom is activated.

Turning to an example embodiment of a screen shot is provided for selecting between global zoom and local zoom. The screen shot in an application includes controls and for selecting global zoom and local zoom respectively. In this example as indicated by the bold text and darkened border global zoom is currently activated. A user provides an input selection for control .

As a result local zoom is then activated instead. This is now indicated by the bold text and darkened border around the control . Other types of indicators and controls can be used.

In an example embodiment while using global zoom if a user increases the global zoom to a maximum global zoom setting then a tactile alert or response is provided. For example a vibration is initiated. In an example embodiment the maximum global zoom setting is 500 . In another example embodiment a tactile alert or response is provided when a minimum global zoom setting is reached. The tactile feedback lets the user know that the maximum or minimum level of the global zoom is reached.

The steps or operations in the flow charts described herein are just for example. There may be many variations to these steps or operations without departing from the spirit of the invention or inventions. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified.

The GUIs and screen shots described herein are just for example. There may be variations to the graphical and interactive elements without departing from the spirit of the invention or inventions. For example such elements can be positioned in different places or added deleted or modified.

It will be appreciated that the particular example embodiments shown in the figures and described above are for illustrative purposes only and many other variations can be used according to the example embodiments described. Although the above has been described with reference to certain specific example embodiments various modifications thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art as outlined in the appended claims.

