---

title: Data synchronization for devices supporting direction-based services
abstract: With the addition of directional information and gesture based input in a location based services environment, a variety of service(s) can be provided on top of user identification or interaction with specific object(s) of interest. For instance, a device can interact with various endpoints of a direction-based location service and any of the content or other information exchanged between clients and services can be synchronized for efficient exchange of information and efficient utilization of network bandwidth and resources. For example, change input is received by a device that alters, deletes or augments dynamically updateable information associated with a point of interest and the changes resulting from the change input are synchronized from the mobile device to a location based network service. Optionally, the synchronization can be according to a knowledge exchange to identify what should be synchronized prior to transmitting the updates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615257&OS=08615257&RS=08615257
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08615257
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 483 982 filed on Jun. 12 2009 and entitled DATA SYNCHRONIZATION FOR DEVICES SUPPORTING DIRECTION BASED SERVICES which application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 074 415 filed on Jun. 20 2008 entitled MOBILE COMPUTING SERVICES BASED ON DEVICES WITH DYNAMIC DIRECTION INFORMATION U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 074 590 filed on Jun. 20 2008 entitled MOBILE COMPUTING SERVICES BASED ON DEVICES WITH DYNAMIC DIRECTION INFORMATION and to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 073 849 filed on Jun. 19 2008 entitled MOBILE COMPUTING DEVICES ARCHITECTURE AND USER INTERFACES BASED ON DYNAMIC DIRECTION INFORMATION the entirety of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to computing devices and to synchronization of data for network data services based on orientation or direction of the devices.

By way of background concerning some conventional systems mobile devices such as portable laptops PDAs mobile phones navigation devices and the like have been equipped with location based services such as global positioning system GPS systems WiFi cell tower triangulation etc. that can determine and record a position of mobile devices. For instance GPS systems use triangulation of signals received from various satellites placed in orbit around Earth to determine device position. A variety of map based services have emerged from the inclusion of such location based systems that help users of these devices to be found on a map and to facilitate point to point navigation in real time and search for locations near a point on a map.

However such navigation and search scenarios are currently limited to displaying relatively static information about endpoints and navigation routes. While some of these devices with location based navigation or search capabilities allow update of the bulk data representing endpoint information via a network e.g. when connected to a networked portable computer PC or laptop such data again becomes fixed in time. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a set of richer experiences for users than conventional experiences predicated on location and conventional processing of static bulk data representing potential endpoints of interest. In addition considering the complexity of input on touchscreens or tiny alphanumeric keypads typically provided for portable electronic devices current ways for invoking benefits of location based services are inadequate.

The above described deficiencies of today s location based systems and devices are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

Direction based pointing services are provided for portable devices or mobile endpoints. Mobile endpoints can include a positional component for receiving positional information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device and a processing engine that processes the positional information and the direction information to determine a subset of points of interest relative to the portable electronic device as a function of the positional information and or the direction information. Based on an analysis of any one or more of the motion information the direction information or the location information a set of services can be provided and any of the information transmitted to or from the set of services can be synchronized for efficient exchange of data and content.

Devices or endpoints can include compass es e.g. magnetic or gyroscopic to determine a direction and location based systems for determining location e.g. GPS. To supplement the positional information and or the direction information devices or endpoints can also include component s for determining speed and or acceleration information for processing by the engine e.g. to aid in the determination of gestures made with the device.

With the addition of directional information in the environment a variety of service s can be provided on top of identification of specific object s of interest. For instance as described in connection with various non limiting scenarios a device can interact with various endpoints of a direction based location service and any of the content or other information exchanged between clients and services can be synchronized for efficient exchange of information and efficient utilization of network bandwidth and resources.

In one embodiment a method for displaying point of interest information on a mobile device is provided including displaying static information and dynamically updateable information associated with a point of interest of a location based network service based on direction and or location information associated with the mobile device. Then change input is received by the device that alters deletes or augments the dynamically updateable information associated with the point of interest and the changes resulting from the change input are synchronized from the mobile device to the location based network service. Optionally the synchronization can be according to a knowledge exchange to identify what should be synchronized prior to transmitting the updates.

As discussed in the background among other things current location services systems and services e.g. GPS cell triangulation P2P location service such as Bluetooth WiFi etc. tend to be based on the location of the device only and tend to provide static experiences that are not tailored to a user because the data about endpoints of interest is relatively static. In addition when a user of the device interacts with points of interest in connection with data or network services based on direction and or location information real time interactions can be impacted by lengthy data or other network exchanges as a result of which users can lose interest or become frustrated.

At least partly in consideration of these deficiencies of conventional location based services various embodiments of a portable device are provided that enable users to point a device directionally and receive static and or dynamic information in response from a networked service such as provided by one or more servers or as part of a cloud services experience. As part of making changes to the dynamic information the changes can be propagated to and from the network or the device using a synchronization model to avoid the duplication or re transmission of data that has not changed. Point of interest information direction information location information or other user content can thus be sent to or received from a direction based location service and such exchanges of respective knowledge of a given set of data can be based on synchronization for efficient network usage.

In various alternative embodiments described herein leveraging digital compasses and location services to provide direction and location information enables a next generation of direction or pointer based location search services scan services discoverability services etc. In this regard the digital compass and location information such as GPS can be used to point at objects of interest thus defining entry point s for one or more data transactions or interactions between the device and one or more third party devices providing service s for the object s of interest at which the device is pointed. Using a digital compass e.g. solid state magnetic sun moon based etc. on a mobile endpoint facilitates a limitless number of point and upload scenarios e.g. point and synchronize information to a Web service cloud services or another endpoint. For instance user path history is an example of a set of information based on location and or direction information of the device where much of the data remains static and only small recent changes to the path are updated on the network. In such case user device path history can be synchronized to and from a direction based location service to ensure only the updates are passed to the network service to avoid duplication of past user path history. User path history is only one of many examples of information that can be synchronized to or from a direction based location service.

As reflected in various embodiments a device is provided that can hone in on interact with or otherwise transact with a specific object or specific objects of interest by way of location and direction of the device creating a new advertising model not previously known. As an example when a user interacts with a particular product on a shelf at a retail store in connection with a direction based service this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in the particular product to engage the user e.g. communicate some information to that user.

An advertisement or promotion associated with a product with which a user is currently interacting is an example of dynamic content that can change while the description of the product itself may remain static. Thus for instance perhaps the discount percentage of a promotion is all that has changed since the last time a user interacted with the product and in such case perhaps the product information remains locally cached on the device. With the synchronization techniques described herein the new percentage of the promotion represents a change to the locally cached information that can be brought to the device as a synchronization update. As a result the updated information about the product as well as the information that has not changed becomes available to the user in real time according to the efficient network update of the POI information via synchronization.

In this regard users can interact with the endpoints in a host of context sensitive ways to provide or update information associated with endpoints of interest or to receive beneficial information or instruments e.g. coupons offers etc. from entities associated with the endpoints of interest according to synchronization techniques that efficiently exchange data to minimize network transmission delays and the like.

In one embodiment a portable electronic device comprises a positional component that outputs position information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a motion component that outputs motion information as a function of movement s of the portable device and a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device. The device is configured to process at least the position information and or the direction information to determine point s of interest relating to the position information and configured to process automatically synchronize with respect to at least one set of outdated information from or to the network.

The point s of interest can be determined from the position information and the direction information and the portable electronic device can automatically make a request based on identifier s associated with the point s of interest that includes synchronization of data used in connection with fulfillment of the request. A positional component can include a global positioning satellite GPS component for receiving and processing GPS signals or a component for receiving position information based on triangulation to wireless base stations an image recognition system for recognizing at least one object in image data and determining a position of the device relative to the at least one object in the image data or other means for measuring location.

The directional component can include a digital compass and can also include an image recognition system for recognizing an object in real space and determining the direction of the object and therefore the device by detecting the side of the object or detecting the object relative to other objects fixed in real space. The motion component can include accelerometer s for measuring an acceleration of the device. The motion component can include at least two accelerometers for measuring a tilt or rotation of at least part of the device.

In one embodiment a process determines a location of a portable device based on location information determined for the device the location information representing a global position of the device. Direction information representing an orientation of the portable device and the location information are analyzed to determine point s of interest towards which the portable device is substantially oriented. In this regard path information representing a path traversed by the portable device is analyzed based on at least the direction information and the path information is synchronized to one or more direction based location services.

In another embodiment a method for displaying point of interest information on a mobile device includes displaying static information and dynamically updateable information associated with a point of interest of a location based network service based on direction information and or location information associated with the mobile device. Then a user alters deletes or augments the dynamically updateable information associated with the point of interest and the changes are synchronized from the mobile device to the location based network service. The static information or the dynamically updateable information can already be wholly or partially stored in local memory such as cache memory of the device. In one non limiting aspect a set of POIs are determined based on at least one of the location information or the direction information and a point of interest is selected from the set of points of interest.

In another embodiment a portable electronic device has a storage device that stores information about at least one point of interest of a location based service a positional component that outputs position information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device and a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device. Moreover the device is configured to process e.g. using processor s the position information and or the direction information to determine POIs to display POI information about the POIs from the storage device and to facilitate synchronization of modifications to the point of interest information to or from remote storage of the location based service.

The portable electronic device can optionally include a motion component e.g. an accelerometer for measuring an acceleration of at least part of the device which outputs motion information as a function of at least one movement of the portable device. For instance the motion information can be processed to determine at least one gesture input with respect to the at least one point of interest and to automatically modify the POI information about the POIs where applicable for the given gesture input. Optionally the modifications can be synchronized based a multi master synchronization protocol based on versioning information applied to each item of information synchronized with respect to the point of interest information.

In another embodiment a method includes determining a location of a portable device based on location information determined for the device the location information representing a global position of the device analyzing direction information representing an orientation of the portable device and the location information to determine at least one POI towards which the portable device is substantially oriented analyzing path information representing a path traversed by the portable device based on at least the location information to determine updates for the path information to be synchronized and synchronizing to obtain the updates for the path information. The analyzing of the path information can include determining updates for the path information to be synchronized from the portable device to a location based network service. The synchronization can be initiated by the location based services or the device.

With the addition of directional information in a location based environment a variety of mobile scanning experiences are enabled on top of user identification of or interaction with specific object s of interest by pointing at an object of interest. For instance when a user points at a particular item at a particular location or place this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in that particular item to interact with the user regarding that item or related items at a point at a time when the user s focus is on the particular item. User context for the interaction can also be taken into account to supplement the provision of one or more interactive direction based services. However user experience suffers if content takes too long to be received by or transmitted from a device. Accordingly in various non limiting embodiments a method is provided that enables any of the content associated with network exchanges occurring for location based network services to be altered deleted or augmented such that the changes are efficiently synchronized to consuming devices and services.

A non limiting device supporting direction location based services includes an engine for analyzing location information e.g. GPS compass information N W S E and optionally movement information e.g. accelerometer to allow a platform for finding objects of interest in a user s environment. A variety of scenarios are provided based on a user finding adding to deleting or otherwise modifying information of interest about movable objects of interest such as people or non movable objects of interests such as restaurants or other items around an individual and synchronizing the information for an efficient exchange with the network. Interaction between objects of interest and the user can be predicated on a knowledge based synchronization set forth in more detail below.

In such a system a user may interact with many different POIs alter modify or augment a store of information associated with the POI. However a variety of issues and problems arise in connection with achieving this on a large scale among other problems. A way to interact with POIs is thus provided and as part of the interaction some data viewed is augmented altered or viewed with text photos videos or other information associated with a POI e.g. purchase data. A synchronization framework can be employed that receives the change data representing modification or augmentation of system data and synchronizes the data efficiently to other systems. A variety of real time scenarios are also explored where synchronization achieves efficient data exchange for data in the system.

In one embodiment a method for displaying point of interest information on a mobile device includes determining a POI at which the mobile device is pointed displaying static information associated with the POI retrieved from a local cache memory displaying dynamically updateable information associated with the POI receiving input from a user of the mobile device that alters deletes or augments the updateable information with changes associated with the POI and synchronizing the changes to the network service.

The pointing information however produced according to an underlying set of measurement components and interpreted by a processing engine can be one or more vectors. A vector or set of vectors can have a width or arc associated with the vector for any margin of error associated with the pointing of the device. A panning angle can be defined by a user with at least two pointing actions to encompass a set of points of interest e.g. those that span a certain angle defined by a panning gesture by the user.

A device can also include a Hardware Abstraction Layer HAL having components responsible for abstracting the way the client communicates with the measuring instruments e.g. the GPS driver for positioning and LOS accuracy e.g. open eGPS magnetic compass for heading and rotational information e.g. gyroscopic one or more accelerometers for gestured input and tilt achieves 3D positional algorithms assuming gyroscopic compass .

Accordingly in various non limiting embodiments mobile computing devices can include solid state or magnetic compasses which allow users to point their handsets to a location of interest instead of engaging in a conventional search and gain synchronized information about a location from an owner of the endpoint one or more third parties or a web service such as a mapping service.

Leveraging digital compasses and GPS to provide direction and location information enables a next generation of location based search services discoverability services and mobile gaming services where the digital compass and GPS can be used as a pointing device. Using a digital compass e.g. solid state magnetic sun moon based etc. on a mobile endpoint facilitates point and upload scenarios point and synchronize geographical information to a Web service cloud services or another endpoint.

For instance one scenario includes pointing to a building using the device s GPS accelerometer and digital compass to discover the vector formed by the device and the point of view POV location to which the user is pointing. If no information exists the user can enter information about the object or location which can be synchronized to the applicable service.

Another exemplary non limiting scenario includes point and click synchronization where for instance a web service and application allow users to point and sync contacts files media etc. by simply locating another endpoint using line of sight. Synchronization can occur through the cloud or directly via WIFI BlueTooth etc. The number of scenarios are limitless so only a few are described herein and for the same reason a great variety of user interfaces can be provided to correspond to such scenarios as well.

In various alternative embodiments gyroscopic or magnetic compasses can provide directional information. In one embodiment operating from a local cache at least the data in the local cache is still relevant at a time of disconnect from a network the user can still interact with the data and finally synchronize according to any updates made when re connected to the network or to another device that has more up to date GPS data POI data etc. In this regard a switching architecture can be adopted for the device to perform a quick transition from connectivity from one networked system e.g. cell phone towers to another computer network e.g. Wi Fi to a local network e.g. mesh network of Bluetooth connected devices .

A broad range of scenarios can be enabled by a device where web services effectively resolve vector coordinates sent from mobile endpoints into or other coordinates using location data such as GPS data as well as configurable synchronized POV information similar to that found in a GPS system in an automobile. In this regard any of the embodiments can be applied similarly in any motor vehicle device. One non limiting use is also facilitation of endpoint discovery for synchronization of data of interest to or from the user from or to the endpoint.

Accordingly a general device for accomplishing this includes assets to resolve a line of sight vector sent from a mobile endpoint and a system to aggregate that data as a platform enabling a host of new scenarios predicated on the pointing information known for the device. The act of pointing with a device such as the user s mobile phone thus becomes a powerful vehicle for users to discover and interact with points of interest around the individual in a way that is tailored for the individual. Synchronization of data can also be performed to facilitate roaming and sharing of POI data and contacts among different users of the same service.

When things change from the perspective of either the service or the client a synchronization process can bring either the client or service respectively up to date. In this way an ecosystem is enabled where a user can point at an object or point of interest gain information about it that is likely to be relevant to the user interact with the information concerning the point of interest and add value to services ecosystem where the user interacts. The system thus advantageously supports both static and dynamic content.

In addition a synchronization platform or framework can keep the roaming caches in sync thereby capturing what users are looking at and efficiently processing changes. Or where a user goes offline local changes can be recorded and when the user goes back online such local changes can be synchronized to the network or service store. Also since the users are in effect pulling information they care about in the here and in the now through the act of pointing with the device the system generates high cost per thousand impression CPM rates as compared to other forms of demographic targeting. Moreover the system drives impulse buys since the user may not be physically present in a store but the user may be near the object and by being nearby and pointing at the store information about a sale concerning the object can be sent to the user.

Accordingly using the regional data cache callbacks and an update mechanism that is updated dynamically based on movement new point of interest can be added by a service or by a user. Update is thus performed continuously or substantially continuously based on updated travel velocity speed etc. In this regard a user can add a new point of interest in the region add info to a local cache and then upload to the zone. To appreciate the problem the number of worldwide POIs is practically limitless however only a small number of POIs will be relevant to a user at a given time. Thus predictively a cube of data can be taken to the device the user can go offline such that when the user reconnects the device is intelligent to figure out what has changed been weighted etc. so that the device can synchronize with the network services and expose the user s changes for other people. The portion of the cube to be used next can thus be transmitted to the device via synchronization representing updates to POIs within a range of the device.

A method for displaying point of interest information on a mobile device can include determining a point of interest at which the mobile device is pointed displaying static information associated with the point of interest retrieved from a local cache memory displaying dynamically updateable information associated with the point of interest receiving input from a user of the mobile device that alters deletes or augments the updateable information with changes associated with the point of interest and synchronizing the changes to the network service.

A method for using a device provisioned for pointing based services comprises receiving direction information associated with at least one direction of the device identifying points of interest that substantially intersect with the at least one direction according to an intersection determination displaying static and dynamic information associated with at least one point of interest of the points of interest interacting with the dynamic information including sending a message to the at least one point of interest or making changes to the dynamic information and synchronizing the message or the changes to a network service in response to the interacting. The method can further include receiving at least one filter criteria for filtering the points of interest in addition to the intersection determination.

In this regard a mobile device with pointing capabilities can be operated in an information discovery mode in which the user of the device is walking turning driving etc. and pointing to various movable objects other users cars airplanes etc. as part of various scenarios to get information as well as to interact with them. In effect the user possesses a magic wand to aim at people and other moving points of interest etc. and get set get set information with the click of a button or other activation of the service.

In this respect a scenario is enabled where a user merely points with the device and discovers persons of interest and information of interest in the process. Taking the scenario a step further pointing can also be in effect a form of querying of the service for points of interest thereby providing a point and search experience with the synchronization techniques described herein making for an efficient network exchange of the related information. Thus a user can inform a pointer device to find any other people that also enjoy underwater basketweaving since it is a rare hobby and hard to find other enthusiasts.

A method for a device provisioned for pointing based services involving moving objects such as people includes receiving direction information associated with at least one direction of the device identifying persons of interest that substantially intersect with the at least one direction according to an intersection determination displaying static and dynamic information associated with at least one person of interest of the persons of interest and interacting with the dynamic information including sending a message to the at least one person of interest and synchronizing the message to a network service in response to the interacting.

A method for a device provisioned for pointing based services can include receiving direction information associated with at least one direction of the device identifying persons of interest that substantially intersect with the at least one direction according to an intersection determination displaying static and dynamic information associated with at least one person of interest of the persons of interest and interacting with the dynamic information including making changes to the dynamic information which can be synchronized. In one embodiment the POI content is a social networking application profile and the interacting includes interacting with the social networking application profile of the at least one person of interest and synchronizing changes.

A method for a device provisioned for pointing based services pertaining to places can include receiving direction information associated with at least one direction of the device determining at least one place associated with the at least one direction of the device that substantially intersect with the at least one direction according to an intersection determination and identifying at least one person of interest in the at least one place based on information from a network service. Then similar to other embodiments static and dynamic information associated with at least one person of interest can be displayed changes can be made to the dynamic information during interactions and the changes can be synchronized to the network service.

Optionally in cooperation with gesture based analysis component and optionally local applications or services or remote services processor s process the position information and or the direction information to determine a set of points of interest relating to the position direction information. Processor s also process the motion information direction information and or position information to determine one or more points of interest of the set. In response the portable electronic device automatically makes a request based on interactions and identifier s associated with the one or more points of interest of the set. The synchronization component can handle synchronization of the data independent of the underlying representation of the data i.e. hiding the semantics of synchronization from applications to facilitate the synchronization experience without providing custom sync applications.

Device can include storage for storing any of position information motion information direction information application information etc. The device can also include a graphics subsystem display and associated user interface for display of information and or for receiving touchscreen input. An audio subsystem can also be included for voice or other sound input or sound output in connection with the provision of gesture and pointing based services.

For instance via network interface an automatic request can be made to network data services based on the gesture and place or point of interest identification. As a result a variety of content can be synchronized e.g. targeted content advertising offers deals price comparisons etc.

At upon selection of a POI static content is determined and any dynamic content is acquired via synchronization. When new data becomes available it is downloaded to stay up to date. At POI information is filtered further by user specific information e.g. if it is the user s first time at the store returning customer loyalty program member live baseball game offer for team clothing discounts etc. . At static and dynamic content that is up to date is rendered for the POI. In addition updates and or interaction with POI information is allowed which can be synced back to the service at .

At the direction information and location information are analyzed to determine a set of point s of interest or POI s . At any updates to information about the POIs already stored by the device from prior interactions with one or more of the POIs are received via synchronization. Based on at least current location content is thus received from various network service providers pertaining to the POIs which can also be received via a set of changes to be synchronized. At action can be initiated or taken by the network service providers e.g. static and or dynamic content may be received from network service providers and modifications made to such content made at the device can be synchronized back to the network service provider via synchronization.

At the knowledge is analyzed so that at the service gets the updates for offers for the given location or given point of interest if identified . At the service may get updated content associated with the location along with an optional branded user interface at . At a content package representing the sync changes is created and delivered to the device at . The device can undergo a check for the current location at . Optionally the results can be modified e.g. re ordered or otherwise interacted with at . Lastly based on an advertising model the content providers or owners can be billed at .

The collective information can be used to gain a sense of not only where the device is located in relation to other potential points of interest tracked or known by the overall set of services to understand what direction the user is pointing the device so that the services can appreciate at whom or what the user is pointing the device and to further gain a sense of how the user wishes to interact with the place or point of interest via the gesture information .

Gesture subsystem can be predicated on any one or more of the motion information location information or direction information . In this regard not only can direction information and location information be used to define a set of unique gestures but also motion information such as speed and acceleration can be used to define a more sophisticated set of gestures.

When things change from the perspective of either the service or the client a synchronization process can bring either the client or service respectively up to date. In this way an ecosystem is enabled where a user can point at an object or point of interest gain information about it that is likely to be relevant to the user interact with the information concerning the point of interest and add value to services ecosystem where the user interacts. The system thus advantageously supports both static and dynamic content.

When things change from the perspective of either the service or the client a synchronization process can bring either the client or service respectively up to date. In this way an ecosystem is enabled where a user can point at an object or point of interest gain information about it that is likely to be relevant to the user interact with the information concerning the point of interest and add value to services ecosystem where the user interacts. The system thus advantageously supports both static and dynamic content.

In this respect a scenario is enabled where a user merely points with the device and discovers points of interest and information of interest in the process. Taking the scenario a step further pointing can also be in effect a form of querying of the service for points of interest thereby providing a point and search experience. For instance a user points a device along with some context about what the user is searching for either explicitly e.g. defining search terms or implicitly e.g. Use of a Restaurant Finder Service to define scope for points of interest along the pointing direction plus any additional filters represented by the search context.

Next based on motion vectors determined for the pointing a service determines current points of interest within scope. Points of interest within scope are then displayed e.g. as map view as navigable hierarchy as vertical or horizontal list etc. Further static and or dynamic information associated with the points of interest or selected points of interest can be displayed. The points of interest data and associated information can be pre fetched to a local cache for seamless processing of point and discover inquiries. For selecting points of interest various user interfaces can be considered such as left right or up down arrangements for navigating categories or a special set of soft keys can be adaptively provided etc. Moreover the user can optionally interact with dynamic information displayed for point s of interest and such changes message can be transmitted e.g. synchronized to network storage for further routing handling etc.

In addition once presented with the results based on a given scope of points of interest a user can decide to drill in and or drill out e.g. in terms of distance width or height of search zone size of objects etc. If a user is literally standing right in front of only 1 point of interest such as the Statue of Liberty then the device can be smart enough and directly show the content for it without going to shore to display further points of interest. Examples of static information that can be set by an owner of information about a point of interest include name address hours URL other static and or dynamic content which can be updated in real time via synchronization . Examples of dynamic content could be what the main exhibits are at a museum whether the museum is empty or really crowded or whether a show is sold out such that if there are too many people people can come back the next day. Other examples include coupons advertisements sale information offers deals etc.

A user can thus optionally interact with dynamic information displayed for point s of interest and such changes message can be transmitted e.g. synchronized to network storage for further routing handling etc. In effect this is a point and add to a knowledge pool scenario e.g. a location based search where users update information for others to discover by subsequent pointing acts. Examples of information that can be updated dynamically are user reviews or where some information in the possession of the user is missing the user adds the information to the benefit of all others. A mobile Wikipedia experience can thus be enabled for each point of interest in the system.

In addition a synchronization platform or framework can keep the roaming caches in sync thereby capturing what users are looking at and efficiently processing changes. Or where a user goes offline local changes can be recorded and when the user goes back online such local changes can be synchronized to the network or service store. Also since the users are in effect pulling information they care about in the here and in the now through the act of pointing with the device the system generates high cost per thousand impression CPM rates as compared to other forms of demographic targeting. Moreover the system drives impulse buys since the user may not be physically present in a store but the user may be near the object and by being nearby and pointing at the store information about a sale concerning the object can be sent to the user.

As mentioned different location subsystems such as tower triangulation GPS A GPS E GPS etc. have different tolerances. For instance with GPS tolerances can be achieved to about 10 meters. With A GPS tolerances can be tightened to about 12 feet. In turn with E GPS tolerance may be a different error margin still. Compensating for the different tolerances is part of the interpretation engine for determining intersection of a pointing vector and a set of points of interest. In addition a distance to project out the pointing vector can be explicit configurable contextual etc.

In addition a synchronization platform or framework can keep the roaming caches in sync thereby capturing what users are looking at and efficiently processing changes. Or where a user goes offline local changes can be recorded and when the user goes back online such local changes can be synchronized to the network or service store. Also since the users are in effect pulling information they care about in the here and in the now through the act of pointing with the device the system generates high cost per thousand impression CPM rates as compared to other forms of demographic targeting. Moreover the system drives impulse buys since the user may not be physically present in a store but the user may be near the object and by being nearby and pointing at the store information about a sale concerning the object can be sent to the user.

Once a property or properties are selected at a user can interact with the device in a variety of pre defined or user defined ways per the following non limiting examples agent contact info e.g. with automatic links for immediate contact multiple listing service MLS listing for house request open house info find out price watch promotional content e.g. trailers video photos etc. give feedback to owner e.g. digg thumbs up or down find out vendor info e.g. find out who does the landscaping or a request for historical projected data .

For instance a view manual user interface can be invoked by performing a view help . View manual user interface may include product POI help index and correspondingly include the ability to search link to supplemental help or link to repair or service for the item as well as display a given section of the help information in section . Any of the help information can be synchronized. For instance a user may have a previous version of a manual stored locally on the device and thus synchronization enables only updates to the information to be efficiently downloaded.

With respect to the list an operation might be to see the list UI thereby bringing up grocery list user interface including a list of items e.g. can check of items as acquired ranking filter UI add manage sort items geoplant list share list or purchase item s online . Another operation with respect to groceries might be to see favorites via favorite groceries UI which may include a list of favorite items e.g. can check items as acquired ranking filter UI add manage sort items put on Hunt for list described in more detail below share list or view online content relating to item s e.g. ads. In this regard particularly where a user shops in the same or similar places the user may not need to completely download a new set of grocery shopping information but rather may be able to achieve up to date grocery information via efficient synchronization.

An exemplary non limiting synchronization protocol for synchronizing data or subsets of data among nodes in a multi master synchronization environment including synchronization with Web service endpoints that can be employed in accordance with various non limiting embodiments is now described. In this section an overview is presented of a general mechanism for efficiently representing knowledge in data synchronization systems. The general mechanism includes 1 an efficient exchange of knowledge between connected devices by requiring only the minimum data needed by a first node from a second node to be sent 2 the ability to efficiently and correctly recognize disagreements over the state of data i.e. conflicts between a first node and a second node 3 the ability to synchronize an arbitrary number of nodes and 4 the ability to synchronize any node via any other node i.e. the ability to work in a peer to peer multi master synchronization environment.

With the general mechanism any number of changes can be made to some information that is to be shared between the two devices. At any time they become connected by exchanging their knowledge with one another they become aware of at least the minimum amount of information needed to reconstruct what each other knows and doesn t know to facilitate of changes between the devices. It is noted that where more than two devices are involved knowledge may be incomplete knowledge of a greater base of information to be shared but as more knowledge is shared around the multiple devices collective knowledge continues to be accrued by the devices as they connect to the other devices over time.

Advantageously in various non limiting embodiments the invention operates to perform synchronization for a set of devices or as described below a subset of devices all interested in maintaining the latest versions of a set of objects but also allows such devices to come into connection and out of connection with the other objects of the set. Whenever a device comes back into connection with other device s of the set of devices via one or more networks the device regains collective knowledge that is as up to date as the other device s represent with their collective knowledge. In this fashion even loosely connected devices may come into and out of contact with a set of devices and then relearn all the knowledge missed by coming into contact with any set of devices that possess the latest set of collective knowledge.

Advantageously as shown by even where connections in the network become disconnected a complete set of knowledge can nonetheless be gained by all of the devices and as long as at least one connection directly or indirectly exists to the other devices. For instance as shown knowledge of device still reaches device via the knowledge exchange with device then via the knowledge exchange between device and and finally via the knowledge exchange between device and .

With more devices sharing knowledge about common information to be shared all of the devices benefit because knowledge exchange s in accordance with various non limiting embodiments of the invention of the invention are agnostic about from which device collective knowledge comes. The devices each independently operate to try to gain as much knowledge about information to be shared among the devices from any of the other devices to which it is connected.

In exemplary non limiting detail a method is described in further detail for two nodes to engage in a conversation and at the end of the conversation to have equivalent knowledge for the concerned data set. The method is scalable beyond two nodes by creating a knowledge exchange capability for each new device entering the peer to peer network.

Thus as shown in node of a peer to peer network having any number of nodes wants to exchange data with Node . Node A begins by requesting changes from Node and in order to do so Node sends its knowledge represented as K to Node as shown.

Knowledge of a device or node is represented by labeling each object to be shared among devices with a letter identifier and then the trailing number represents the latest version for this object. For instance Kas shown in includes objects A B C and D each to be synchronized between nodes and and the number following each of the objects represents the latest version of the object known on the device. For instance knowledge Kat a time t 1 includes the 5version of A the 4version of B the 7version of C and the 1version of D notated as A B C D in . In contrast knowledge Kof node at a time t 1 may include the 4version of A the 7version of B the 7version of C and the 3version of D notated as A B C D in .

As shown in at time T 2 node compares knowledge Kreceived from node against its own knowledge Kand determines what needs to be sent to node . In this example as a result node will send node the changes relating to B and D since node s knowledge of B D is behind node s knowledge of B and D. When node sends node the changes between B and B and the changes between D and D it also sends along the latest version of knowledge Kit has reflecting whenever the last change on node was made .

As shown in representing time t 3 sending knowledge Kto node allows node to detect conflicts e.g. store them for later resolution if it later finds out that both node and node made a change to an object while they were on the same version. This allows for autonomous updating efficient enumeration but also correct conflict detection when the nodes meet and exchange changes. For instance in the example if C is not the same object in both knowledge Kand K e.g. if both independently evolved from C to C then which C is the correct C can be set aside for conflict resolution e.g. according to pre set policy resolution that befits the synchronization scenario and devices involved.

An exemplary knowledge exchange process between any two nodes of a distributed multi master synchronization environment using the above described general mechanism is shown in the flow diagram of . At node A requests synchronization with node B thereby asking node B for changes node A does not know about. In order to equip node B at node A sends its knowledge to node B. At node B compares the knowledge received from node A with its own knowledge to determine what changes node B knows about that should be sent to node A. At node B sends such changes to node A and in addition node B sends its knowledge to node A so that node A can perform a similar knowledge comparison at .

At node A detects any potential conflicts between latest versions reflected in the knowledge of node B and latest versions reflected in the knowledge of node A in the event that independent evolution of versions has occurred on node A and node B. Optionally any conflict resolution policy may be applied to determine which node trumps the other node in the event of a conflict. At the latest changes from node A that are not possessed by node B are sent to node B. The conflict resolution policy will additionally dictate whether any changes are sent from node B to node A or node A to node B to maintain common information between the nodes. If independent versioning is OK or desirable no conflict resolution is another option.

If the filtered knowledge Fand filtered knowledge Fare not of the same scope then instead the knowledge is a function of existing knowledge plus the knowledge of the other replica as projected onto the intersection of their respective Filters Fand F as follows 

Among other applications an exemplary non limiting application for these types of filters is for filtering columns or any change units of a synchronization framework. This is particularly applicable since column changes are not likely to be subject to move operations in the system. There are two considerations for this scenario worth noting filter representation and knowledge consolidation.

With respect to filter representation filter representation for the case of no move filters is as follows. Each filter is represented as a list of the change units contained within the filter. This representation provides a convenient means of representation as well as the ability to combine filters when necessary. The ability to combine filters is useful for consolidating knowledge.

With respect to knowledge consolidation in order to keep knowledge in its most concise form the ability to consolidate knowledge must be maintained. In this regard fragments of filtered knowledge can be consolidated so that knowledge can be maintained in its most compact form.

Considering the ability to combine filters since filters can be represented as a set of change units overlaps in filters can be reconciled by isolating the sets of change units that exist in both filters.

Also since the vector for a filter applies to each of the individual change units within the filter the combination of the filters can be performed by finding the combined vector for the change unit for each change unit in both filters. Then once all of the vectors are known the change units that have a common vector are recombined into a new filter.

Accordingly the notion of knowledge can be used to efficiently represent data for knowledge exchanges among multiple nodes of a multi master synchronization network any node of which may independently evolve common information or subsets of common information to be synchronized across the nodes. As described in more detail below the above described knowledge based framework is extendible to a multi master synchronization environment including Web service endpoint s . Next some supplemental context is provided regarding devices architectures and services in which any one or more of the above described embodiments can be deployed.

The following description contains supplemental context regarding potential non limiting pointing devices architectures and associated services to further aid in understanding one or more of the above embodiments. Any one or more of any additional features described in this section can be accommodated in any one or more of the embodiments described above with respect to direction based services at a particular location. While such combinations of embodiments or features are possible for the avoidance of doubt no embodiments set forth in the subject disclosure should be considered limiting on any other embodiments described herein.

As mentioned a broad range of scenarios can be enabled by a device that can take location and direction information about the device and build a service on top of that information. For example by effectively using an accelerometer in coordination with an on board digital compass an application running on a mobile device updates what each endpoint is looking at or pointed towards attempting hit detection on potential points of interest to either produce real time information for the device or to allow the user to select a range or using the GPS a location on a map and set information such as Starbucks 10 off cappuccinos today or The Alamo site of . . . for others to discover. One or more accelerometers can also be used to perform the function of determining direction information for each endpoint as well. As described herein these techniques can become more granular to particular items within a Starbucks such as blueberry cheesecake on display in the counter enabling a new type of sale opportunity.

Accordingly a general device for accomplishing this includes a processing engine to resolve a line of sight vector sent from a mobile endpoint and a system to aggregate that data as a platform enabling a host of new scenarios predicated on the pointing information known for the device. The act of pointing with a device such as the user s mobile phone thus becomes a powerful vehicle for users to discover and interact with points of interest around the individual in a way that is tailored for the individual. Synchronization of data can also be performed to facilitate roaming and sharing of POV data and contacts among different users of the same service.

In a variety of embodiments described herein 2 dimensional 2D 3 dimensional 3D or N dimensional directional based search discovery and interactivity services are enabled for endpoints in the system of potential interest to the user.

In this regard the pointing information and corresponding algorithms ultimately depend upon the assets available in a device for producing the pointing or directional information. The pointing information however produced according to an underlying set of measurement components and interpreted by a processing engine can be one or more vectors. A vector or set of vectors can have a width or arc associated with the vector for any margin of error associated with the pointing of the device. A panning angle can be defined by a user with at least two pointing actions to encompass a set of points of interest e.g. those that span a certain angle defined by a panning gesture by the user.

In this respect a device can include a variety of spatial and map components and intelligence to determine intersections for directional arcs. For instance objects of interest could be represented with exact boundaries approximated with spheres subshells stores in a mall of a greater shell mall hierarchically arranged etc. Dynamically generated bounding boxes can also be implemented work i.e. any technique can be used to obtain boundary information for use in an intersection algorithm. Thus such boundaries can be implicitly or explicitly defined for the POIs.

Thus a device can include an intersection component that interprets pointing information relative to a set of potential points of interest. The engine can perform such intersections knowing what the resolution of the measuring instruments are on the device such as a given resolution of a GPS system. Such techniques can include taking into account how far a user is from a plane of objects of interest such as items on a shelf or wall the size of the item of interest and how that is defined as well as the resolution of location instrumentation such as the GPS system. The device can also optionally include an altimeter or any other device that gives altitude information such as measuring radar or sonar bounce from the floor. The altitude information can supplement existing location information for certain specialized services where points of interest vary significantly at different altitudes. It is noted that GPS itself has some information about altitude in its encoding.

In one non limiting embodiment a portable electronic device includes a positional component for receiving positional information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device and a location based engine that processes the positional information and the direction information to determine a subset of points of interest relative to the portable electronic device as a function of at least the positional information and the direction information.

The positional component can be a positional GPS component for receiving GPS data as the positional information. The directional component can be a magnetic compass and or a gyroscopic compass that outputs the direction information. The device can include acceleration component s such as accelerometer s that outputs acceleration information associated with movement of the portable electronic device. The use of a separate sensor can also be used to further compensate for tilt and altitude adjustment calculations.

In one embodiment the device includes a cache memory for dynamically storing a subset of endpoints of interest that are relevant to the portable electronic device and at least one interface to a network service for transmitting the positional information and the direction information to the network service. In return based on real time changes to the positional information and direction pointing information the device dynamically receives in the cache memory an updated subset of endpoints that are potentially relevant to the portable electronic device.

For instance the subset of endpoints can be updated as a function of endpoints of interest within a pre defined distance substantially along a vector defined by the orientation of the portable electronic device. Alternatively or in addition the subset of endpoints can be updated as a function of endpoints of interest relevant to a current context of the portable electronic device. In this regard the device can include a set of Representational State Transfer REST based application programming interfaces APIs or other stateless set of APIs so that the device can communicate with the service over different networks e.g. Wi Fi a GPRS network etc. or communicate with other users of the service e.g. Bluetooth. For the avoidance of doubt the embodiments are in no way limited to a REST based implementation but rather any other state or stateful protocol could be used to obtain information from the service to the devices.

The directional component outputs direction information including compass information based on calibrated and compensated heading directionality information. The directional component can also include direction information indicating upward or downward tilt information associated with a current upward or downward tilt of the portable electronic device so that the services can detect when a user is pointing upwards or downwards with the device in addition to a certain direction. The height of the vectors itself can also be taken into account to distinguish between an event of pointing with a device from the top of a building likely pointing to other buildings bridges landmarks etc. and the same event from the bottom of the building likely pointing to a shop at ground level or towards a ceiling or floor to differentiate among shelves in a supermarket. A 3 axis magnetic field sensor can also be used to implement a compass to obtain tilt readings.

Secondary sensors such as altimeters or pressure readers can also be included in a mobile device and used to detect a height of the device e.g. what floor a device is on in a parking lot or floor of a department store changing the associated map floorplan data . Where a device includes a compass with a planar view of the world e.g. 2 axis compass the inclusion of one or more accelerometers in the device can be used to supplement the motion vector measured for a device as a virtual third component of the motion vector e.g. to provide measurements regarding a third degree of freedom. This option may be deployed where the provision of a 3 axis compass is too expensive or otherwise unavailable.

In this respect a gesturing component can also be included in the device to determine a current gesture of a user of the portable electronic device from a set of pre defined gestures. For example gestures can include zoom in zoom out panning to define an arc all to help filter over potential subsets of points of interest for the user.

Among other algorithms for interpreting position motion direction information as shown in a device employing the direction based location based services as described herein in a variety of embodiments herein include a way to discern between near objects such as POI and far objects such as POI . Depending on the context of usage the time the user s past the device state the speed of the device the nature of the POIs etc. the service can determine a general distance associated with a motion vector. Thus a motion vector will implicate POI but not POI and the opposite would be true for motion vector .

In addition a device includes an algorithm for discerning items substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing and those not substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing. In this respect while motion vector might implicate POI without a specific panning gesture that encompassed more directions vectors POIs and would likely not be within the scope of points of interest defined by motion vector . The distance or reach of a vector can also be tuned by a user e.g. via a slider control or other control to quickly expand or contract the scope of endpoints encompassed by a given pointing interaction with the device.

In one non limiting embodiment the determination of at what or whom the user is pointing is performed by calculating an absolute Look vector within a suitable margin of error by a reading from an accelerometer s tilt and a reading from the magnetic compass. Then an intersection of endpoints determines an initial scope which can be further refined depending on the particular service employed i.e. any additional filter. For instance for an apartment search service endpoints falling within the look vector that are not apartments ready for lease can be pre filtered.

In addition to the look vector determination the engine can also compensate for or begin the look vector where the user is by establish positioning 15 feet through an A GPS stack or other location based or GPS subsystem including those with assistance strategies and also compensate for any significant movement acceleration of the device where such information is available.

As mentioned in another aspect a device can include a client side cache of potentially relevant points of interest which based on the user s movement history can be dynamically updated. The context such as geography speed etc. of the user can be factored in when updating. For instance if a user s velocity is 2 miles an hour the user may be walking and interested in updates at a city block by city block level or at a lower level granularity if they are walking in the countryside. Similarly if a user is moving on a highway at 60 miles per hour the block by block updates of information are no longer desirable but rather a granularity can be provided and predictively cached on the device that makes sense for the speed of the vehicle.

In an automobile context the location becomes the road on which the automobile is travelling and the particular items are the places and things that are passed on the roadside much like products in a particular retail store on a shelf or in a display. The pointing based services thus creates a virtual billboard opportunity for items of interest generally along a user s automobile path. Proximity to location can lead to an impulse buy e.g. a user might stop by a museum they are passing and pointing at with their device if offered a discount on admission.

The determination of path information can include processing acceleration information measuring acceleration of the device processing velocity information measuring velocity of the device analyzing the path information for a given time span or analyzing a set of vectors representing the path traversed by the device from a start time to a stop time. Moreover the analyzing of path information can include analyzing three dimensional 3 D path information representing three degrees of freedom of movement for the device but can also include analyzing three dimensional 3 D path information as 2 D path information by collapsing a degree of freedom.

In various alternative embodiments gyroscopic or magnetic compasses can provide directional information. A REST based architecture enables data communications to occur over different networks such as Wi Fi and GPRS architectures. REST based APIs can be used though any stateless messaging can be used that does not require a long keep alive for communicated data messages. This way since networks can go down with GPRS antennae seamless switching can occur to Wi Fi or Bluetooth networks to continue according to the pointing based services enabled by the embodiments described herein.

A device as provided herein according to one or more embodiments can include a file system to interact with a local cache store updates for synchronization to the service exchange information by Bluetooth with other users of the service etc. Accordingly operating from a local cache at least the data in the local cache is still relevant at a time of disconnection and thus the user can still interact with the data. Finally the device can synchronize according to any updates made at a time of re connection to a network or to another device that has more up to date GPS data POI data etc. In this regard a switching architecture can be adopted for the device to perform a quick transition from connectivity from one networked system e.g. cell phone towers to another computer network e.g. Wi Fi to a local network e.g. mesh network of Bluetooth connected devices .

With respect to user input a set of soft keys touch keys etc. can be provided to facilitate in the directional based pointing services provided herein. A device can include a windowing stack in order to overlay different windows or provide different windows of information regarding a point of interest e.g. hours and phone number window versus interactive customer feedback window . Audio can be rendered or handled as input by the device. For instance voice input can be handled by the service to explicitly point without the need for a physical movement of the device. For instance a user could say into a device what is this product right in front of me No not that one the one above it and have the device transmit current direction movement information to a service which in turn intelligently or iteratively determines what particular item of interest the user is pointing at and returns a host of relevant information about the item.

One non limiting way for determining a set of points of interest is illustrated in . In a device is pointed e.g. point and click in a direction D which according to the device or service parameters implicitly defines an area within arc and distance that encompasses POI but does not encompass POI . Such an algorithm will also need to determine any edge case POIs i.e. whether POIs such as POI are within the scope of pointing in direction D where the POI only partially falls within the area defined by arc and distance .

Other gestures that can be of interest in for a gesturing subsystem include recognizing a user s gesture for zoom in or zoom out. Zoom in zoom out can be done in terms of distance like . In a device pointed in direction D may include zoomed in view which includes points of interest within distance and arc or a medium zoomed view representing points of interest between distance and or a zoomed out view representing points of interest beyond distance . These zoom zones correspond to POIs and respectively. More or fewer zones can be considered depending upon a variety of factors the service user preference etc.

For another non limiting example with location information and direction information a user can input a first direction via a click and then a second direction after moving the device via a second click which in effect defines an arc for objects of interest in the system such as objects as illustrated in . For instance via first pointing act by the user at time t in direction D and a second pointing act at time t by the user in direction D an arc is implicitly defined. The area of interest implicitly includes a search of points of object within a distance which can be zoomed in and out or selected by the service based on a known granularity of interest selected by the user etc. This can be accomplished with a variety of forms of input to define the two directions. For instance the first direction can be defined upon a click and hold button event or other engage and hold user interface element and the second direction can be defined upon release of the button. Similarly two consecutive clicks corresponding to the two different directions D and D can also be implemented. In the example POI is encompassed by the arc defined by the gesture.

Also instead of focusing on real distance zooming in or out could also represent a change in terms of granularity or size or hierarchy of objects. For example a first pointing gesture with the device may result in a shopping mall appearing but with another gesture a user could carry out a recognizable gesture to gain or lose a level of hierarchical granularity with the points of interest on display. For instance after such gesture the points of interest could be zoomed in to the level of the stores at the shopping mall and what they are currently offering.

In addition a variety of even richer behaviors and gestures can be recognized when acceleration of the device in various axes can be discerned. Panning arm extension retraction swirling of the device backhand tennis swings breaststroke arm action golf swing motions could all signify something unique in terms of the behavior of the pointing device and this is to just name a few motions that could be implemented in practice. Thus any of the embodiments herein can define a set of gestures that serve to help the user interact with a set of services built on the pointing platform to help users easily gain information about points of information in their environment.

Furthermore with relatively accurate upward and downward tilt of the device in addition to directional information such as calibrated and compensated heading directional information other services can be enabled. Typically if a device is ground level the user is outside and the device is pointed up towards the top of buildings the granularity of information about points of interest sought by the user building level is different than if the user was pointing at the first floor shops of the building shops level even where the same compass direction is implicated. Similarly where a user is at the top of a landmark such as the Empire State building a downward tilt at the street level street level granularity would implicate information about different points of interest that if the user of the device pointed with relatively no tilt at the Statue of Liberty landmark building level of granularity .

Also when a device is moving in a car it may appear that direction is changing as the user maintains a pointing action on a single location but the user is still pointing at the same thing due to displacement. Thus thus time varying location can be factored into the mathematics and engine of resolving at what the user is pointing with the device to compensate for the user experience based upon which all items are relative.

Accordingly armed with the device s position one or more web or cloud services can analyze the vector information to determine at what or whom the user is looking pointing. The service can then provide additional information such as ads specials updates menus happy hour choices etc. depending on the endpoint selected the context of the service the location urban or rural the time night or day etc. As a result instead of a blank contextless Internet search a form of real time visual search for users in real 3 D environments is provided.

In one non limiting embodiment the direction based pointing services are implemented in connection with a pair of glasses headband etc. having a corresponding display means that acts in concert with the user s looking to highlight or overlay features of interest around the user.

As shown in once a set of objects is determined from the pointing information according to a variety of contexts of a variety of services a mobile device can display the objects via representation according to a variety of user experiences tailored to the service at issue. For instance a virtual camera experience can be provided where POI graphics or information can be positioned relative to one another to simulate an imaging experience. A variety of other user interface experiences can be provided based on the pointing direction as well.

For instance a set of different choices are shown in . UI and illustrate navigation of hierarchical POI information. For instance level1 categories may include category1 category2 category3 category4 and category5 but if a user selects around the categories with a thumb wheel up down control or the like and chooses one such as category2. Then subcategory1 subcategory2 subcategory3 and subcategory4 are displayed as subcategories of category2. Then if the user selects for instance subcategory4 perhaps few enough POIs such as buildings and are found in the subcategory in order to display on a 2D map UI along the pointing direction or alternatively as a 3D virtual map view along the pointing direction.

When things change from the perspective of either the service or the client a synchronization process can bring either the client or service respectively up to date. In this way an ecosystem is enabled where a user can point at an object or point of interest gain information about it that is likely to be relevant to the user interact with the information concerning the point of interest and add value to services ecosystem where the user interacts. The system thus advantageously supports both static and dynamic content.

Other user interfaces can be considered such as left right or up down arrangements for navigating categories or a special set of soft keys can be adaptively provided.

Where a device includes a camera in one embodiment shown in a representative non limiting overlay UI is shown having 3 POIs POI POI and POI. The POIs are overlaid over actual image data being real time viewed on the device via an LCD screen or like display. The actual image data can be of products on a shelf or other display or exhibit in a store. Thus as the user aims the camera around his or her environment the lens becomes the pointer and the POI information can be overlaid intelligently for discovery of endpoints of interest. Moreover a similar embodiment can be imagined even without a camera such as a UI in which 3 D objects are virtually represented based on real geometries known for the objects relative to the user. Thus the device UI can be implemented consistent with a camera or a virtual camera view for intuitive use of such devices. The pointer mechanism of the device could also switch based on whether the user was currently in live view mode for the camera or not. Moreover assuming sufficient processing power and storage real time image processing could discern an object of interest and based on image signatures overlay POI information over such image in a similar manner to the above embodiments. In this regard with the device provided herein a variety of gestures can be employed to zoom in zoom out perform tilt detection for looking down or up or panning across a field of view to obtain a range of POIs associated with the panning scope.

With respect to a representative set of user settings a number or maximum number of desired endpoints delivered as results can be configured. How to filter can also be configured e.g. 5 most likely 5 closest 5 closest to 100 feet away 5 within category or sub category alphabetical order etc. In each case based on a pointing direction implicitly a cone or other cross section across physical space is defined as a scope of possible points of interest. In this regard the width or deepness of this cone or cross section can be configurable by the user to control the accuracy of the pointing e.g. narrow or wide radius of points and how far out to search.

To support processing of vector information and aggregating POI databases from third parties a variety of storage techniques such as relational storage techniques can be used. For instance Virtual Earth data can be used for mapping and aggregation of POI data can occur from third parties such as Tele Atlas NavTeq etc. In this regard businesses not in the POI database will want to be discovered and thus the service provides a similar but far superior from a spatial relevance standpoint Yellow Pages experiences where businesses will desire to have their additional information such as menus price sheets coupons pictures virtual tours etc. accessible via the system.

In addition a synchronization platform or framework can keep the roaming caches in sync thereby capturing what users are looking at and efficiently processing changes. Or where a user goes offline local changes can be recorded and when the user goes back online such local changes can be synchronized to the network or service store. Also since the users are in effect pulling information they care about in the here and in the now through the act of pointing with the device the system generates high cost per thousand impression CPM rates as compared to other forms of demographic targeting. Moreover the system drives impulse buys since the user may not be physically present in a store but the user may be near the object and by being nearby and pointing at the store information about a sale concerning the object can be sent to the user.

As mentioned different location subsystems such as tower triangulation GPS A GPS E GPS etc. have different tolerances. For instance with GPS tolerances can be achieved to about 10 meters. With A GPS tolerances can be tightened to about 12 feet. In turn with E GPS tolerance may be a different error margin still. Compensating for the different tolerances is part of the interpretation engine for determining intersection of a pointing vector and a set of points of interest. In addition as shown in a distance to project out the pointing vector can be explicit configurable contextual etc.

In this regard the various embodiments described herein can employ any algorithm for distinguishing among boundaries of the endpoints such as boundary boxes or rectangles triangles circles etc. As a default radius e.g. 150 feet could be selected and such value can be configured or be context sensitive to the service provided. On line real estate sites can be leveraged for existing POI information. Since different POI databases may track different information at different granularities a way of normalizing the POI data according to one convention or standard can also be implemented so that the residential real estate location data of Zillow can be integrated with GPS information from Starbucks of all the Starbucks by country.

In addition similar techniques can be implemented in a moving vehicle client that includes GPS compass accelerometer etc. By filtering based on scenarios e.g. I need gas different subsets of points of interest e.g. gas stations can be determined for the user based not only on distance but actual time it may take to get to the point of interest. In this regard while a gas station may be 100 yards to the right off the highway the car may have already passed the corresponding exit and thus more useful information to provide is what gas station will take the least amount of time to drive from a current location based on direction location so as to provide predictive points of interest that are up ahead on the road and not already aged points of interest that would require turning around from one s destination in order to get to them.

For existing motor vehicle navigation devices or other conventional portable GPS navigation devices where a device does not natively include directional means such as a compass the device can have an extension slot that accommodates direction information from an external directional device such as a compass. Similarly for laptops or other portable electronic devices such devices can be outfitted with a card or board with a slot for a compass. While any of the services described herein can make web service calls as part of the pointing and retrieval of endpoint process as mentioned one advantageous feature of a user s locality in real space is that it is inherently more limited than a general Internet search for information. As a result a limited amount of data can be predictively maintained on a user s device in cache memory and properly aged out as data becomes stale.

While there are a variety of implementations and ways to sub divide regions whether overlapping or not predictive caching and aging is conceptually illustrated by in which a user s present location is discerned. At this point the local cache still includes age out candidate location but as the velocity of the user indicates the user will be at predicted locations and in the future these regions of POIs are downloaded to the mobile device. Accordingly as the user travels to predicted location it starts to be clear that the user no longer needs the data from the age out candidate location which can then be removed or flagged for removal when storage is challenged.

Accordingly using the regional data cache callbacks and an update mechanism that is updated dynamically based on movement new point of interest can be added by a service or by a user. Update is thus performed continuously or substantially continuously based on updated travel velocity speed etc. In this regard a user can add a new point of interest in the region add info to a local cache and then upload to the zone. To appreciate the problem the number of worldwide POIs is practically limitless however only a small number of POIs will be relevant to a user at a given time. Thus predictively a cube of data can be taken to the device the user can go offline such that when the user reconnects the device is intelligent to figure out what has changed been weighted etc. so that the device can synchronize with the network services and expose the user s changes for other people.

The predictive algorithms again depend on what the user is interested in finding what service the user may be using the context of the user etc. They can also be based on velocity direction time etc. For instance if it is nighttime assumptions based on demographics or preferences may lead the device to return information about nightclubs or all night diners. Or instead of giving directions as driving directions that calculate distances as absolute distances i.e. as the crow flies a device can take road curves into account since instantaneous pointing information on roads can be collected and handled by a corresponding service when giving driving directions. Or as another alternative the direction one is heading on a road such as a highway with a concrete divider is relevant to the directions that a navigation system should give. Where a U turn is unavailable and user passes an exit with a point of interest for instance directions should take this into account and consider the heading of the vehicle.

Any device can include the embodiments described herein including MP3 players such as a Zune device GPS navigation devices bike computers sunglass visor systems motor vehicles mobile phones laptops PDA etc.

One way to obtain the service applications assuming the underlying measuring instruments to participate in the real time gathering of directional information is to message to a service to obtain the application e.g. by text messaging to service or getting a client download link. Another vehicle for enabling the service is to provide it natively in the operating system or applications of a mobile devices. Since a hardware abstraction layer accommodates different methods for collecting position direction acceleration information the same platform can be used on any device regardless of the precise underlying hardware.

In another aspect of any of the embodiments described herein because stateless messaging is employed if communications drop with one network the device can begin further communicating via another network. For instance a device has two channels and a user gets on a bus but no longer have GPRS or GPS activity. Nonetheless the user is able to get the information the device needs from some other channel. Just because a tower or satellites are down does not mean that the device cannot connect through an alternative channel e.g. the bus s GPS location information via Bluetooth.

With respect to exemplary mobile client architectures a representative device can include as described variously herein client Side Storage for housing and providing fast access to cached POI data in the current region including associated dynamically updated or static information such as annotations coupons from businesses etc. This includes usage data tracking and storage. In addition regional data can be a cached subset of the larger service data always updated based on the region in which the client is roaming. For instance POI data could include as a non limiting example the following information 

Support for different kinds of information e.g. blob v structured information blob for storage and media structured for tags annotations etc. 

A device can also include usage data and preferences to hold settings as well as usage data such as coupons activated waypoints businesses encountered per day other users encountered etc. to be analyzed by the cloud services for business intelligence analysis and reporting.

A device can also include a continuous update mechanism which is a service that maintains the client s cached copy of a current region updated with the latest. Among other ways this can be achieved with a ping to pull model that fetches and swaps out the client s cached region using travel direction and speed to facilitate roaming among different regions. This is effectively a paging mechanism for upcoming POIs. This also includes sending a new or modified POI for the region with annotations coupons sending a new or modified annotation for the POIs with coupons or sending a new or modified coupon for the POI.

A device can also include a Hardware Abstraction Layer HAL having components responsible for abstracting the way the client communicates with the measuring instruments e.g. the GPS driver for positioning and LOS accuracy e.g. open eGPS magnetic compass for heading and rotational information e.g. gyroscopic one or more accelerometers for gestured input and tilt achieves 3D positional algorithms assuming gyroscopic compass .

As described earlier a device can also include methods interfaces to make REST calls via GPRS Wi Fi and a file system and storage for storing and retrieving the application data and settings.

A device can also include user input and methods to map input to the virtual keys. For instance one non limiting way to accomplish user input is to have softkeys as follows though it is to be understood a great variety of user inputs can be used to achieve interaction with the user interfaces of the pointing based services.

In addition a representative device can include a graphics and windowing stack to render the client side UI as well as an audio stack to play sounds alerts.

As mentioned such a device may also include spatial and math computational components including a set of APIs to perform 3D collision testing between subdivided surfaces such as spherical shells e.g. a simple hit testing model to adopt and boundary definitions for POIs rotate points and cull as appropriate from conic sections.

As described in various embodiments herein illustrates a process for a device when location e.g. GPS and direction e.g. compass events occur. In upon the occurrence of a location or direction event at it is determined whether predictive caching should be initiated for a next region to which a user is travelling. At if so then the next region of data can be pre fetched. At old regional data no longer of relevance can be aged out. At any usage data can be uploaded to the service framework for business intelligence input to an advertisement engine etc.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments of methods and devices for pointing based services and related embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Each object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each object etc. or etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the user profiling in a transaction and advertising platform as provided in accordance with various embodiments.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the techniques as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computers etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the improved user profiling and related techniques as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the user profiling can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned various embodiments described herein apply to any device wherein it may be desirable to perform pointing based services. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments described herein i.e. anywhere that a device may request pointing based services. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the embodiments of the subject disclosure may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction.

Although not required any of the embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the operable component s . Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network interactions may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiments herein can include a general purpose computing device in the form of a handheld computer . Components of handheld computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices networks and advertising architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to derive information about surrounding points of interest.

There are multiple ways of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the pointing based services. Embodiments may be contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that provides pointing platform services in accordance with one or more of the described embodiments. Various implementations and embodiments described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Still further one or more aspects of the above described embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

