---

title: Server and application for interactive gameplay
abstract: An interactive game and gaming system are presented. In some aspects, information is derived from a database and a select subset of it is used to generate both questions and potential answers to the questions. A player is presented with the potential answers and selects an answer, which is evaluated by the system to determine its correctness. Commercial advantages of interacting with players in this way and collecting information about the players and promoting things to the players are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08734162&OS=08734162&RS=08734162
owner: 
number: 08734162
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120404
---
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for online gameplay. Specifically for playing a game where the player is challenged to select a correct answer to a query posed to the player by the system. The game may be played on a computer connected to a network including the game server and song lyric database.

Interactive electronic and computer games have proliferated. The games include aspects that entertain their users or players. Other aspects generate profit for the party putting on the games or distributing or selling the games. Other aspects raise awareness of an issue or promote a product or a company.

One common aspect to gaming especially online gaming is that a player can interact with a client machine computer mobile device by way of a browser or client application. The client machine then uses an interface and a network wired wireless connection to interact with a server machine that serves content and information to the client for the purpose of driving the game play. Another feature of online gaming especially in games that are free to players to play is that the game is used as a platform for promotion of other things. This can be done by presenting pop up type or banner type advertising to a player of the game. Yet another common feature of online gaming is to encourage a player to sign up for a service or to create an account or to join a database of players that include information about the player. Providers of interactive games can benefit from information about the community of players including demographic information and information about why the players like the game or dislike it and information about what interests the players and how the players react to the game and the products and services being promoted.

A source of information or database from which queries questions to players can be derived is used to formulate both the queries and a plurality of possible responses answers to the queries.

A gaming server pulls queries and formulates questions from a database. In addition possible answers only some of which are correct are formulated from the contents of the database. A user is challenged to select a correct response or answer to the query or question posed during a segment of the game or a round of the game. Advertising and other commercially useful information are presented to the user and collected from the user in the course of playing the game. A user s profile or demographic characteristics may be used to drive the generation of the queries and or the presented possible responses.

Some embodiments are directed to a method for interactive game play comprising obtaining a set of baseline data in one or more documents or files extracting select data of a desired characteristic from the baseline data formulating a query to a player from the select data formulating a query to a player from the select data presenting the query and the plurality of potential responses to the query to the player receiving the player s response to the query and determining whether the player s response to the query matches a criterion for correctness of the response.

A player client device may be a conventional client machine such as a personal computer. The player client device may also be a conventional mobile communication device mobile computing device smartphone or similar appliance. The components of system may be implemented in hardware software firmware or combinations of the foregoing. For example computer readable media in the system may include computer readable instructions stored in a data storage apparatus or memory. The instructions can be parsed and executed on a processor circuit as known by those skilled in the art.

A feature extractor component is programmed for and adapted and arranged to extract a certain type of feature from the database or the information therein. For example the feature extractor may pull up and selectively provide certain aspects or subsets of information from that available in database . As an example by way of illustration the feature extractor may be programmed to pull out the words in a file the images in a file or other selected information.

The selected extracted information or extracted feature of the data taken from the database may be scrambled or randomized by way of scrambler component . The scrambler can enhance the gameplay and control its level of difficulty. The scrambler can act to randomize queries questions to the player and or randomize possible responses answers to the queries so that even the same subset of data can be presented in different formats from time to time. In one embodiment the scrambler may scramble the question or query order. In another embodiment the scrambler may scramble the set of possible answers and the order in which they appear to the player.

In some embodiments a frequency generator generates metrics corresponding to the frequency with which certain information appears in the database . Information that occurs more often in the database or source document may be given a greater weight or given a more pronounced appearance to the user.

A server in system will serve up the queries to the player and collect the player s answers. The queries may be determined by the player s profile if the player is known to the system as will be discussed below.

One or more client machines are coupled to the servers by way of a communication channel. The communication channel may include wireless connections or wired connections to carry data signals between the server and the clients. A player interacts with the game by way of his or her client machine and software running on the client machine. The client machine itself may be a personal computer or mobile processing apparatus with a communication module or capability. Software running on the client machine is programmed to present queries to the player . Some embodiments rely on browser software running on client . Other embodiments include apps that run on the mobile device of the user and derive functionality and data from an app server.

Various business methods and techniques for administering and operating the system are possible. They include direct sale of game applications and data. They also include subscription based access to the gaming system . They also include revenue generation by way of advertising presented to the player community . In other embodiments they also include revenue from wireless or wired communication providers who charge users for the use of the airwaves and communication channels discussed earlier.

Early in the operation of the method some baseline data is obtained at step from a database or similar repository. The baseline data may include information about academic scientific political cultural entertainment personal financial sports trivia film celebrity or other information of interest to players of the interactive game.

An extractor module or unit or device or software component extracts selected data from the baseline data at step . For example if the baseline data contains several types of information about a subject the extraction step may chose a certain one or more types of information about the subject. Depending on the settings of the program and the preferences of a user the extraction may select information that is selected because it is of use or interest to its user the player. In an embodiment player profile data or information is obtained at step from a database of player profiles. The player profiles may be dynamic and updated as the player s interaction with the game and the gaming system progresses and becomes more known.

At step the system presents the extracted and selected data to a player in the form of a query formulated by the gaming server and based on the extracted selected data. Promotional content such as advertising may be presented at steps to the player on the player s client machine interface at any time during the gameplay. Promotions and advertising content may be presented to the player at optional steps and and as well if desired or throughout the game or at key points during the game.

Once the player is presented with a query or question at step the system accepts the player s selection guess at step where the player chooses from among a plurality of available or possible presented answers or responses. In some embodiments only one response is correct to answer the posed query. In other embodiments more than one correct answer exists and the player will be graded on some criterion or criteria for playing the game. The player chooses his or her answer and submits the choice to the system for evaluation. A hint may be given to players who are unsure of their answers at step .

The system evaluates the player s choice of response to the posed query or question. At step the system presents a verdict or comment to the player on his or her answer or selection. The verdict or comment may include an indication of whether the player s answer was correct to the question or query posed. Trivia or facts relating to the subject matter of a game segment may be provided at step .

Once the player has concluded playing a segment or portion of the interactive game the system may invite the player to play another round or another game or to play again at step . Links or buttons may be presented to the player in a graphical user interface to accept the player s acceptance to play again or the player s refusal to play again.

If the player does not wish to continue playing another round the system may present the player with his or her ranking at step relative to other players in the player community. A list of top scores may be summarized on the screen. If the player does choose to play another round the player is presented with a selected query again.

At the conclusion of play the system may update the player s profile. Again promotions or invitations to buy or review a product or service may be presented to the player at step .

The game or process ends at if the player does not require or indicate another round or if the player affirmatively opts to leave the gaming site.

The present gaming application system and method may be implemented on a computer or processor based machine such as a server or other network capable device. Communication may be carried out using conventional packet based or standards based messaging. A Web front end including a Web server may be employed to provide interactivity with users of client machines interacting with the Web server. A database of information containing data used for the game containing educational content entertainment content trivia personal information news content user profiles etc. is coupled to the Web server or other backend application server coupled to the Web server. An application programming interface API may further be provided to supply information used in game play over HTTP or other means. Some logic can further be installed on and executing on the players client computers or mobile computing devices.

In a specific exemplary and non limiting embodiment the system includes a server such as a Ruby server application with a Web front end and an iOS mobile application. The mobile application interacts with the server using a JSON API over HTTP. The server may be written in Ruby on Rails e.g. release 3.0.0 . The server is deployed over the Heroku cloud platform or similar platform for easy deployment and scaling.

The game state is saved in a Web browser cookie. In an embodiment the game state may be wrapped in an object for easy access and manipulation. The cookie keeps track of the current game state of any given gaming session.

The game state may include the score a number of lives left and what select data or information have been used in the current game. In an embodiment storing the latter prevents a portion of select data already used to be shown again in a single game. Using a client cookie to store this information means that little or no server resources are needed to store game state in some illustrative examples. The result of each question may be recorded in the database allowing for analysis and providing data for question difficulty. At the conclusion of the game the score may be saved to the database.

The present system and application may use PostgreSQL to store the select type of data from the baseline data in the database. The system may use smart data objects to pull down the necessary information from various web based APIs and store it locally. These updates can be run periodically to provide fresh baseline data for the information for the game. For example to keep abreast of headlines in the news.

An application programming interface API provides information needed for a client to play the game in JSON over HTTP. The logic is preferably handled by the client application but the API provides all needed baseline data information correct and incorrect answers sample URL image URL and facts . On completion of the game the client can post the score to the server to determine if it has made the high score list. In addition the API provides a mechanism for posting the results of each question.

The embodiments and description and drawings provided herein are illustrative and allow those skilled in the art to understand the inventions and to incorporate the inventions into systems and methods comprehended by the present disclosure and claims. The present embodiments should therefore not be considered exhaustive or limiting but other derivative and similar techniques and devices relating hereto should be considered covered by the present scope of invention as well.

