---

title: Method and apparatus for communicating in a dominant interference scenario
abstract: Techniques for supporting communication in a dominant interference scenario are described. A user equipment (UE) may communicate with a first base station and may observe high interference from and/or may cause high interference to a second base station. In one design, the first base station may use a first frequency band, which may overlap at least partially with a second frequency band for the second base station and may further extend beyond the second frequency band. The first base station may send at least one synchronization signal and a broadcast channel in a center portion of the first frequency band for use by UEs to detect the first base station. The second frequency band may be non-overlapping with the center portion of the first frequency band. The first base station may also communicate with at least one UE on the first frequency band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497732&OS=09497732&RS=09497732
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09497732
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121203
---
The present application is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 499 425 filed Jul. 8 2009 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COMMUNICATING IN A DOMINANT INTERFERENCE SCENARIO now U.S. Pat. No. 8 428 016 which claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 080 056 filed Jul. 11 2008 entitled SUPPORTING RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION IN LTE USING FDM assigned to the assignee hereof and incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more specifically to techniques for supporting communication in a wireless communication network.

Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication services such as voice video packet data messaging broadcast etc. These wireless networks may be multiple access networks capable of supporting multiple users by sharing the available network resources. Examples of such multiple access networks include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks Time Division Multiple Access TDMA networks Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA networks Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA networks and Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA networks.

A wireless communication network may include a number of base stations that can support communication for a number of user equipments UEs . A UE may communicate with a base station via the downlink and uplink. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the base station to the UE and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the UE to the base station.

A base station may transmit data and control information on the downlink to a UE and or may receive data and control information on the uplink from the UE. On the downlink a transmission from the base station may observe interference due to transmissions from neighbor base stations. On the uplink a transmission from the UE may cause interference to transmissions from other UEs communicating with the neighbor base stations. The interference may degrade performance on both the downlink and uplink.

Techniques for supporting communication in a dominant interference scenario are described herein. A UE may communicate with a first base station and may observe high interference from and or may cause high interference to a second base station. The first base station may be a macro base station and the second base station may be a femto base station with restricted access. The first and or second base station may also be base stations of other types.

In an aspect communication in a dominant interference scenario may be supported by having different base stations operate on different frequency bands. In one design a first base station may use a first frequency band which may overlap at least partially with a second frequency band for a second base station and may further extend beyond the second frequency band. The first base station may broadcast information indicative of the first frequency band for the first base station and possibly the second frequency band for the second base station.

In one design the first base station may use the first frequency band for communication on the downlink. The first base station may send at least one synchronization signal and a broadcast channel in a center portion of the first frequency band which may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The first base station may also send multiple transmissions of a control channel across the first frequency band to allow UEs to receive at least one transmission of the control channel without interference from the second base station. The first base station may also send a control channel and or a data channel to at least one UE in a portion of the first frequency band that is non overlapping with the second frequency band.

In another design the first base station may use the first frequency band for communication on the uplink. The first base station may receive a control channel sent by at least one UE in a control region of the first frequency band which may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The first base station may also receive a data channel sent by the at least one UE in a data region of the first frequency band which may be assignable for data transmission on the uplink and may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with the data region.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication networks such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other networks. The terms network and system are often used interchangeably. A CDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA WCDMA and other variants of CDMA. cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and LTE Advanced LTE A are new releases of UMTS that use E UTRA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE A and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . The techniques described herein may be used for the wireless networks and radio technologies mentioned above as well as other wireless networks and radio technologies. For clarity certain aspects of the techniques are described below for LTE and LTE terminology is used in much of the description below.

An eNB may provide communication coverage for a macro cell a pico cell a femto cell and or other types of cell. A macro cell may cover a relatively large geographic area e.g. several kilometers in radius and may allow unrestricted access by UEs with service subscription. A pico cell may cover a relatively small geographic area and may allow unrestricted access by UEs with service subscription. A femto cell may cover a relatively small geographic area e.g. a home and may allow restricted access by UEs having association with the femto cell e.g. UEs in a Closed Subscriber Group CSG UEs for users in the home etc. . An eNB for a macro cell may be referred to as a macro eNB. An eNB for a pico cell may be referred to as a pico eNB. An eNB for a femto cell may be referred to as a femto eNB or a home eNB. In the example shown in eNBs and may be macro eNBs for macro cells and respectively. eNB may be a pico eNB for a pico cell . eNBs and may be femto eNBs for femto cells and respectively. An eNB may support one or multiple e.g. three cells.

Wireless network may also include relay stations. A relay station is a station that receives a transmission of data and or other information from an upstream station e.g. an eNB or a UE and sends a transmission of the data and or other information to a downstream station e.g. a UE or an eNB . A relay station may also be a UE that relays transmissions for other UEs. In the example shown in a relay station may communicate with eNB and a UE in order to facilitate communication between eNB and UE . A relay station may also be referred to as a relay eNB a relay etc.

Wireless network may be a heterogeneous network that includes eNBs of different types e.g. macro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs relays etc. These different types of eNBs may have different transmit power levels different coverage areas and different impact on interference in wireless network . For example macro eNBs may have a high transmit power level e.g. 20 Watts whereas pico eNBs femto eNBs and relays may have a lower transmit power level e.g. 1 Watt .

Wireless network may support synchronous or asynchronous operation. For synchronous operation the eNBs may have similar frame timing and transmissions from different eNBs may be approximately aligned in time. For asynchronous operation the eNBs may have different frame timing and transmissions from different eNBs may not be aligned in time. The techniques described herein may be used for both synchronous and asynchronous operation.

A network controller may couple to a set of eNBs and provide coordination and control for these eNBs. Network controller may communicate with eNBs via a backhaul. eNBs may also communicate with one another e.g. directly or indirectly via wireless or wireline backhaul.

UEs may be dispersed throughout wireless network and each UE may be stationary or mobile. A UE may also be referred to as a terminal a mobile station a subscriber unit a station etc. A UE may be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless modem a wireless communication device a handheld device a laptop computer a cordless phone a wireless local loop WLL station etc. A UE may be able to communicate with macro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs relays etc. In a solid line with double arrows indicates desired transmissions between a UE and a serving eNB which is an eNB designated to serve the UE on the downlink and or uplink. A dashed line with double arrows indicates interfering transmissions between a UE and an eNB.

LTE utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM on the downlink and single carrier frequency division multiplexing SC FDM on the uplink. OFDM and SC FDM partition the system bandwidth into multiple K orthogonal subcarriers which are also commonly referred to as tones bins etc. Each subcarrier may be modulated with data. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDM. The spacing between adjacent subcarriers may be fixed and the total number of subcarriers K may be dependent on the system bandwidth. For example K may be equal to 128 256 512 1024 or 2048 for system bandwidth of 1.25 2.5 5 10 or 20 megahertz MHz respectively. The system bandwidth may also be partitioned into subbands. For example a subband may cover 1.08 MHz and there may be 1 2 4 8 or 16 subbands for system bandwidth of 1.25 2.5 5 10 or 20 MHz respectively.

In LTE an eNB may send a primary synchronization signal PSS and a secondary synchronization signal SSS for each cell in the eNB. The primary and secondary synchronization signals may be sent in symbol periods and respectively in each of subframes and of each radio frame with the normal cyclic prefix as shown in . The synchronization signals may be used by UEs for cell detection and acquisition. The eNB may send a Physical Broadcast Channel PBCH in symbol periods to in slot of subframe . The PBCH may carry certain system information.

The eNB may send a Physical Control Format Indicator Channel PCFICH in the first symbol period of each subframe as shown in . The PCFICH may convey the number of symbol periods M used for control channels where M may be equal to 1 2 or 3 and may change from subframe to subframe. M may also be equal to 4 for a small system bandwidth e.g. with less than 10 resource blocks. The eNB may send a Physical HARQ Indicator Channel PHICH and a Physical Downlink Control Channel PDCCH in the first M symbol periods of each subframe not shown in . The PHICH may carry information to support hybrid automatic retransmission HARQ . The PDCCH may carry information on resource allocation for UEs and control information for downlink channels. The eNB may send a Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH in the remaining symbol periods of each subframe. The PDSCH may carry data for UEs scheduled for data transmission on the downlink. The various signals and channels in LTE are described in 3GPP TS 36.211 entitled Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA Physical Channels and Modulation which is publicly available.

The eNB may send the PSS SSS and PBCH in the center 1.08 MHz of the system bandwidth used by the eNB. The eNB may send the PCFICH and PHICH across the entire system bandwidth in each symbol period in which these channels are sent. The eNB may send the PDCCH to groups of UEs in certain portions of the system bandwidth. The eNB may send the PDSCH to specific UEs in specific portions of the system bandwidth. The eNB may send the PSS SSS PBCH PCFICH and PHICH in a broadcast manner to all UEs may send the PDCCH in a unicast manner to specific UEs and may also send the PDSCH in a unicast manner to specific UEs.

A number of resource elements may be available in each symbol period. Each resource element may cover one subcarrier in one symbol period and may be used to send one modulation symbol which may be a real or complex value. Resource elements not used for a reference signal in each symbol period may be arranged into resource element groups REGs . Each REG may include four resource elements in one symbol period. The PCFICH may occupy four REGs which may be spaced approximately equally across frequency in symbol period . The PHICH may occupy three REGs which may be spread across frequency in one or more configurable symbol periods. For example the three REGs for the PHICH may all belong in symbol period or may be spread in symbol periods and . The PDCCH may occupy 9 18 32 or 64 REGs which may be selected from the available REGs in the first M symbol periods. Only certain combinations of REGs may be allowed for the PDCCH.

A UE may know the specific REGs used for the PHICH and the PCFICH. The UE may search different combinations of REGs for the PDCCH. The number of combinations to search is typically less than the number of allowed combinations for the PDCCH. An eNB may send the PDCCH to the UE in any of the combinations that the UE will search.

A UE may be within the coverage of multiple eNBs. One of these eNBs may be selected to serve the UE. The serving eNB may be selected based on various criteria such as received power pathloss signal to noise ratio SNR etc.

A UE may operate in a dominant interference scenario in which the UE may observe high interference from one or more interfering eNBs. A dominant interference scenario may occur due to restricted association. For example in UE may be close to femto eNB and may have high received power for eNB . However UE may not be able to access femto eNB due to restricted association and may then connect to macro eNB with lower received power as shown in or to femto eNB also with lower received power not shown in . UE may then observe high interference from femto eNB on the downlink and may also cause high interference to eNB on the uplink.

A dominant interference scenario may also occur due to range extension which is a scenario in which a UE connects to an eNB with lower pathloss and lower SNR among all eNBs detected by the UE. For example in UE may detect macro eNB and pico eNB and may have lower received power for eNB than eNB . Nevertheless it may be desirable for UE to connect to pico eNB if the pathloss for eNB is lower than the pathloss for macro eNB . This may result in less interference to the wireless network for a given data rate for UE

In an aspect communication in a dominant interference scenario may be supported by having different eNBs operate on different frequency bands. A frequency band is a range of frequencies that may be used for communication and may be given by i a center frequency and a bandwidth or ii a lower frequency and an upper frequency. A frequency band may also be referred to as a band a frequency channel etc. The frequency bands for different eNBs may be selected such that a UE can communicate with a weaker eNB in a dominant interference scenario while allowing a strong eNB to communicate with its UEs. An eNB may be classified as a weak eNB or a strong eNB based on the received power of the eNB at a UE and not based on the transmit power level of the eNB .

eNB may operate in Band which may have any suitable center frequency and bandwidth. eNB may operate in Band which may have a smaller bandwidth than Band and may be completely covered by Band . eNB may operate in Band which may also have a smaller bandwidth than Band and may be completely covered by Band . Band may be non overlapping with Band so that strong eNBs and can avoid interfering one another.

eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH in the center 1.08 MHz of Band which is denoted as subband x. Bands and may be non overlapping with subband x so that strong eNBs and can avoid causing high interference to the PSS SSS and PBCH of weaker eNB . Weaker eNB may transmit its PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and PDSCH in a manner to enable reliable reception of these channels by its UEs even in the presence of high interference on Band and or Band from strong eNB and or eNB as described below. eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH in the center 1.08 MHz of Band which is denoted as subband y. Band may include only subband y or may include additional bandwidth. eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH in the center 1.08 MHz of Band which is denoted as subband z. Band may include only subband z or may include additional bandwidth.

eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH on subband x which may be the center 1.08 MHz of Band . Bands and may be non overlapping with subband x in order to avoid causing high interference to the PSS SSS and PBCH of weaker eNB . Weaker eNB may transmit its PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and PDSCH in a manner to enable reliable reception of these channels by its UEs. eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH on subband y which may be the center 1.08 MHz of Band . eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH on subband z which may be the center 1.08 MHz of Band .

In the example shown in eNBs and may be asynchronous and may have different frame timing. eNB may have its subframe starts at time T eNB may have its subframe starts at time T and eNB may have its subframe starts at time T. T Tand Tmay be different start times.

As shown in weaker eNB may transmit its PSS SSS and PBCH in the center 1.08 MHz in designated symbol periods. The PSS SSS and PBCH from weaker eNB may avoid interference from strong eNBs and and may be detectable even by disadvantaged UEs which may be located within the coverage of eNBs and but may be unable to access eNBs and . Weaker eNB may also transmit its PCFICH and PHICH across the entire Band in the first M symbol periods of each subframe where M may vary from subframe to subframe. The PCFICH and PHICH from weaker eNB may observe interference from strong eNB and or but may be sent as described below to enable reception by the disadvantaged UEs.

Strong eNB may transmit its PSS SSS PBCH PCFICH PHICH and PDCCH across the entire Band in designated symbol periods. The transmissions from strong eNB may observe some interference from weaker eNB and may avoid interference from strong eNB . These transmissions may be reliably received by UEs within the coverage of eNB . Similarly strong eNB may transmit its PSS SSS PBCH PCFICH and PHICH across the entire Band in designated symbol periods. The transmissions from strong eNB may observe some interference from weaker eNB and may avoid interference from strong eNB . These transmissions may be reliably received by UEs within the coverage of eNB .

UEs within the coverage of strong eNBs and and allowed to access these eNBs may operate in the normal manner. For example a UE may desire to communicate with strong eNB which may be a home eNB for the UE. The UE may be within the coverage of strong eNB which may be another femto eNB that the UE cannot access. eNB may act as a dominant interferer to the UE. eNBs and may operate on different bands to allow the UE to communicate with eNB . If eNBs and operate on the same band then the UE may be unable to communicate with eNB due to high interference from eNB .

Weaker eNB may transmit its PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and PDSCH in a manner to enable reliable reception by disadvantaged UEs located within the coverage of strong eNB and or but connected to eNB . Weaker eNB may transmit the PCFICH in the first symbol period of each subframe by repeating it every 1.08 MHz across frequency. In the exemplary design shown in weaker eNB may send four transmissions of the PCFICH across 5 MHz Band . If high interference is observed on only one 1.08 MHz band from one strong eNB e.g. eNB or then a disadvantaged UE may be able to receive three looks of the PCFICH without high interference from this strong eNB. Each look may correspond to one transmission of the PCFICH sent in one 1.08 MHz portion of the bandwidth used for transmission. The disadvantaged UE may be able to reliably decode the PCFICH as described below. In another design weaker eNB may set the PCFICH to a fixed default value e.g. M 3 if it determines that the PCFICH may not be reliably received by some disadvantaged UEs. Weaker eNB may then transmit the PHICH and PDCCH in accordance with the default value for the PCFICH.

Weaker eNB may transmit the PHICH in the first M symbol periods of each subframe by repeating it three times across frequency. In the exemplary design shown in if high interference is observed on only one 1.08 MHz band from one strong eNB then a disadvantaged UE may be able to receive at least two looks of the PHICH without high interference from this strong eNB. The disadvantaged UE may be able to reliably decode the PHICH as described below.

Weaker eNB may transmit the PDCCH in specific resource element groups REGs in the first M symbol periods of each subframe. In one design weaker eNB may select REGs with less interference from other eNBs e.g. REGs outside the band used by each strong eNB. It another design eNB may select REGs in a UE search space to include the minimum number of REGs with high interference. In any case weaker eNB may transmit the PDCCH on the selected REGs to the disadvantaged UEs. Each UE may process different possible REGs to detect for transmissions sent on the PDCCH to that UE.

Weaker eNB may transmit the PDSCH to specific UEs served by the eNB. Weaker eNB may schedule the disadvantaged UEs on resource blocks expected to observe low interference e.g. on resource blocks outside the band used by each strong eNB. The disadvantaged UEs may thus be scheduled by keeping in mind possible loss of performance due to high interference in each band used by a strong eNB. Weaker eNB may also use lower modulation and coding schemes for the disadvantaged UEs.

Weaker eNB may transmit the PDCCH and PDSCH on resources selected to avoid high interference. Weaker eNB may also transmit the PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and or PDSCH in a manner to improve reception by the disadvantaged UEs. In one design weaker eNB may increase the transmit power of a given channel e.g. the PHICH PDCCH etc. sent to the disadvantaged UEs. Weaker eNB may uniformly increase the transmit power of all modulation symbols transmitted on the channel. Alternatively weaker eNB may reduce or blank the transmit power of modulation symbols expected to observe high interference and may boost the transmit power of modulation symbols expected to observe low interference. This may be beneficial to UEs that are aware of the high interference. Weaker eNB may also increase the transmit power of symbols expected to observe high interference which may be beneficial to UEs that are not aware of the high interference. Weaker eNB may also distribute the available transmit power across the symbols transmitted on the channel in other manners. Weaker eNB may increase the transmit power of the channel without informing UEs. Alternatively weaker eNB may inform the UEs of the transmit power boost applied to the channel. In another design weaker eNB may use a lower code rate and or a lower modulation order for a channel in which a fair number of modulation symbols may observe high interference. Weaker eNB may select the code rate and or the modulation order based on an estimate of the percentage of modulation symbols that may observe high interference. In yet another design weaker eNB may use more REGs for the channel sent to the disadvantaged UEs. For example weaker eNB may send the channel on 18 REGs instead of 9 REGs in order to improve reception of the channel. A combination of the above designs may also be used to ensure reliable reception of a channel by the disadvantaged UEs.

Table 1 summarizes transmission of the PSS SSS PBCH PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and PDSCH by weaker eNB in a manner to ensure reliable reception of these signals and channels.

Each eNB may transmit a cell specific reference signal for each cell in that eNB. The cell specific reference signal may be generated based on a known sequence and may be sent on specific subcarriers in specific symbol periods of each subframe. The cell specific reference signal may be used for channel estimation signal quality estimation interference estimation and other purposes. For example a UE may derive a channel estimate based on the cell specific reference signal and may use the channel estimate to decode the PHICH PDCCH PDSCH etc.

A disadvantaged UE may communicate with weaker eNB on Band and may observe interference from eNBs and on Bands and . The UE may be informed of the bands of neighbor eNBs e.g. by weaker eNB the network etc.

The disadvantaged UE may obtain received symbols from all subcarriers in Band for weaker eNB in each symbol period. Some received symbols may have high interference from one or more strong eNBs while other received symbols may have low interference from other eNBs. The UE may estimate the interference by taking into account variations in the interference across Band due to partial overlap with bands of other eNBs. For example the UE may average the interference estimates across frequency to improve the quality of the interference estimate. The UE may also perform averaging separately for different parts of Band with different interference levels e.g. average a first part with higher interference separately from a second part with less interference.

The control and data regions may observe different amounts of interference. For example a femto eNB may occupy part of a band a macro eNB may occupy the entire band and the timing of the femto and macro eNBs may be aligned. The femto eNB may be lightly loaded e.g. may not have any data to transmit and or may transmit data only on part of the band but may transmit control information. The UE may be unable to access the femto eNB may try to connect to the macro eNB and may observe different interference levels in the data region and control region in the band occupied by the femto eNB. The UE may estimate the interference for each region based on the reference signal received in that region.

The disadvantaged UE may decode the PCFICH and PHICH sent across the entire band by weaker eNB by taking into account interference observed by the UE. In a first design the disadvantaged UE may discard received symbols with high interference and may decode the PCFICH and PHICH based on undiscarded received symbols with low interference. For example the UE may estimate the amount of interference for each set of one or more received symbols discard each set of received symbols with interference exceeding a high threshold and use each set of received symbols with interference below the high threshold. The high interference from strong eNBs may then puncture or delete some received symbols at the disadvantaged UE. In a second design the disadvantaged UE may use all received symbols for decoding but may give received symbols with high interference less weight in the decoding process. In a third design the disadvantaged UE may estimate and cancel interference on received symbols with high interference. The UE may then use these received symbols after interference cancellation for decoding. The disadvantaged UE may also perform decoding by taking into account high interference observed by some received symbols in other manners.

For the exemplary design shown in the disadvantaged UE may be able to reliably decode the PCFICH from weaker eNB based on three looks with low interference when high interference is observed on only one 1.08 MHz band from one strong eNB. The disadvantaged UE may be able to reliably decode the PHICH from weaker eNB based on at least two looks with low interference when high interference is observed on only one 1.08 MHz band. The disadvantaged UE may decode the PDCCH and PDSCH from weaker eNB using any of the designs described above for decoding the PCFICH and PHICH. The disadvantaged UE may discard received symbols with high interference give these received symbols less weight in the decoding process estimate and cancel interference from these received symbols etc. The disadvantaged UE may also gain from higher transmit power and or lower modulation and coding schemes used by weaker eNB for the PDCCH and PDSCH sent to the UE.

The disadvantaged UE may also receive a cell specific reference signal from weaker eNB . The disadvantaged UE may retain a portion of the reference signal received on a portion of Band without high interference and may discard the remaining portion of the reference signal received on another portion of Band with high interference. The disadvantaged UE may also perform channel estimation by taking into account the higher interference on some received reference symbols.

The disadvantaged UE may determine one or more bands with high interference from one or more strong eNBs in various manners. The disadvantaged UE may detect for eNBs e.g. based on the primary and secondary synchronization signals transmitted by these eNBs. In one design the UE may determine the band used by each detected eNB as well as the amount of interference received from the eNB based on the cell specific reference signal transmitted by the eNB. In another design the UE may determine the band used by each detected eNB based on system information or some other transmission from the eNB. In yet another design the UE may determine the band used by each detected eNB based on a neighbor list sent by the serving eNB. The UE may also determine the band used by each detected eNB in other manners. The UE may estimate the interference from each detected eNB based on the cell specific reference signal the synchronization signals and or other transmissions received from the eNB. The UE may use the information on the band and the interference from each detected eNB to decode various channels as described above.

In one design the disadvantaged UE may determine whether the PCFICH can be reliably received from weaker eNB e.g. based on the estimated interference from other eNBs. For example the disadvantaged UE may determine that the PCFICH can be reliably received if at least a certain percentage of Band used by weaker eNB has interference below a threshold. The disadvantaged UE may decode the PCFICH if it can be reliably decoded and may use a default value for M e.g. M 3 if the PCFICH cannot be reliably decoded. The UE may process the PHICH and PDCCH from weaker eNB based on the decoded or default value of M.

In one design weaker eNB may transmit one or more control channels e.g. the PCFICH PHICH and or PDCCH in a data segment instead of a control segment. For each subframe the control segment may cover all subcarriers in the first M symbol periods and the data segment may cover all subcarriers in the remaining symbol periods of the subframe. Weaker eNB may transmit the displaced control channel s in the portion of Band with low interference during the data portion. Weaker eNB may inform its UEs of the time and frequency resources used for the displaced control channel s e.g. via upper layer signaling. This design may ensure that the control channel s can avoid high interference from strong eNBs.

For a range extension scenario eNB may be a strong macro eNB and eNBs and may be two weaker eNBs e.g. pico eNBs and or relays that may be within range of each other. Strong eNB may cause high interference to UEs communicating with weaker eNB or . Strong eNB may then reduce interference on the band used by each weaker eNB to allow the weaker eNB to communicate with its UEs. For example strong eNB may reduce its transmit power on the band used by each weaker eNB to a sufficiently low power level possibly zero . Strong eNB may send its PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and PDSCH in the remaining part of its band using any of the designs described above to ensure reliable reception of these channels by its UEs.

A femto eNB may occupy part of the system bandwidth which may be referred to as the femto bandwidth and a macro eNB may occupy the entire system bandwidth. In one design the femto eNB may schedule a UE only in the femto bandwidth. In another design the femto eNB may schedule the UE outside of the femto bandwidth but within the system bandwidth. To allow control channels from the macro eNB to go through the femto eNB may avoid transmitting signals in a control region for the macro eNB. The femto eNB may not know the number of TDM control symbols being sent by the macro eNB and may assume the maximum number of TDM control symbols. The macro eNB may need to use these resources to serve UEs barred from accessing the femto eNB. The macro eNB may then ask e.g. via the backhaul and or over the air through UEs the femto eNB to stop using these resources.

In LTE a UE may send a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH in each subframe in which the UE has only control information to send and resources are allocated to the UE. The UE may send a Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH in each subframe in which the UE has only data or both data and control information to send and resources are allocated to the UE. The UE may send the PUCCH or PUSCH i on a first set of contiguous subcarriers in a first half of a band used for the uplink in a first slot of a subframe and ii on a second set of contiguous subcarriers in a second half of the band in a second slot of the subframe. Sending the PUCCH or PUSCH in both halves of the band may provide frequency diversity.

UEs communicating with eNB may transmit the PUCCH in a control region and located near the two edges of Band and may transmit the PUSCH in a data region located in the middle of Band . UEs communicating with eNB may transmit the PUCCH in a control region and located near the two edges of Band and may transmit the PUSCH in a data region located in the middle of Band . UEs communicating with eNB may transmit the PUCCH in a control region and located near the two edges of Band and may transmit the PUSCH in a data region located in the middle of Band . Control regions and and and and may be non overlapping to avoid interference on the PUCCH for the three eNBs.

For the designs shown in each eNB may allocate frequency resources in the control region near the two edges of its band for the PUCCH and may allocate frequency resources in the data region in the middle of the band for the PUSCH. The bands for the three eNBs may be defined such that the control regions for these eNBs are non overlapping. This may then avoid interference on the PUCCH for each eNB.

UEs communicating with weaker eNB may be dominant interferers to strong eNBs and . By selecting the bands for the three eNBs e.g. as shown in the PUCCH transmissions from the UEs communicating with weaker eNB would not interfere with the PUCCH transmissions from UEs communicating with eNBs and . The UEs communicating with weaker eNB may also be scheduled such that i UEs causing high interference to eNB may send their PUSCH transmissions on frequency resources non overlapping with Band and ii UEs causing high interference to eNB may send their PUSCH transmissions on frequency resources non overlapping with Band .

On the uplink a first UE may communicate with a weaker first eNB e.g. a macro eNB or a femto eNB and may cause high interference to a second eNB e.g. another femto eNB . To enable the second eNB to communicate with its UEs the first UE i should not cause excessive interference to the PUCCH of the UEs served by the second eNB and ii should not use at least part of the band assigned to the second eNB to allow the UEs to send data to the second eNB. Parts i and ii may be achieved by controlling the bandwidth of the first and second eNBs to ensure orthogonal PUCCH resources for the two eNBs and to ensure that the first UE does not transmit data in the bandwidth of the second eNB. The first eNB may identify the resources used for the PUCCH and PUSCH by the eNB e.g. via the backhaul and or the first UE and may avoid using those resources.

Parts i and ii may also be achieved with control orthogonalization. The first eNB may desire to serve the first UE which may cause high interference to the second eNB. The first eNB may be assigned a set of uplink resources that may be used only for its UEs. Other UEs in the coverage area of the first eNB may not be allowed to use these assigned resources for their PUCCH and PUSCH. The assigned resources for the first eNB may be non overlapping with the assigned resources for neighbor eNBs. The first eNB can learn about the neighbor eNBs via reports from UEs served by the first eNB by detecting for other eNBs via communication through the backhaul etc. The first eNB may advertise the assigned uplink resources. The second UE may be within the coverage of the first eNB may communicate with the second eNB and may inform the second eNB to not schedule the second UE in the assigned uplink resources of the first eNB. Alternately the assigned resources of different eNBs may be non overlapping orthogonal so if the first UE is scheduled on the assigned resource of the eNB there is no problem.

In one design a downlink band and an uplink band for each eNB may have the same bandwidth and the center frequency of the downlink band may be separated from the center frequency of the uplink band by a fixed offset. In another design the downlink band and the uplink band may have different bandwidths and or may not be separately by a fixed offset.

For simplicity show partitioning of the system bandwidth to support communication by three eNBs in a dominant interference scenario. In general the system bandwidth may be partitioned into any number of frequency bands which may be non overlapping or partially overlapping. Different eNBs may be assigned different frequency bands. Frequency bands used by femto eNBs may be selected such that they occupy only part of the frequency bands used by macro eNBs so that the femto eNBs i do not cause too many symbols of the PCFICH PHICH PDCCH and or other channels from the macro eNBs to be lost and ii can avoid the frequency range carrying the PSS SSS and PBCH from the macro eNBs. Frequency bands of femto eNBs that may be dominant interferers to each other may be selected such that they are non overlapping whenever possible.

A UE may detect a dominant interfering eNB and may report the presence of the interfering eNB e.g. via a CQI report sent to a serving eNB. The UE may also report CQI information for frequency subband s with less interference. The CQI information from the UE may be used by the serving eNB to select appropriate frequency resources to send various channels to enable reliable reception by UEs.

In one design of block the first base station may use the first frequency band for communication on the downlink. The first base station may send at least one synchronization signal e.g. the PSS and SSS in a center portion of the first frequency band for use by UEs to detect the first base station. The first base station may also send a broadcast channel e.g. the PBCH in the center portion of the first frequency band. The second and third frequency bands may be non overlapping with the center portion of the first frequency band e.g. as shown in . The first base station may send multiple transmissions of a control channel e.g. the PCFICH or PHICH across the first frequency band to allow UEs to receive at least one transmission of the control channel without interference from the second base station. The first base station may send the control channel with higher transmit power in a portion of the first frequency band that is non overlapping with the second frequency band. The first base station may also send the control channel with a lower modulation and coding scheme to account for high interference from the second and or third base station in a portion of the first frequency band. The first base station may also send a control channel e.g. the PDCCH and or a data channel e.g. the PDSCH to at least one UE in a portion of the first frequency band which may be non overlapping with the second frequency band or may minimally overlap the second frequency band.

In another design of block the first base station may use the first frequency band for communication on the uplink. The first base station may receive a control channel e.g. the PUCCH sent by at least one UE in a control region of the first frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The first base station may also receive a data channel e.g. the PUSCH sent by the at least one UE in a data region of the first frequency band. The data region may be assignable for data transmission on the uplink and may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with the data region e.g. as shown in . The control region of the first frequency band may be non overlapping with a control region of the second frequency band e.g. as shown in .

In one design for a restricted association scenario the first base station may be a macro base station. The second and third base stations may be femto base stations with restricted access and causing high interference on the downlink to UE communicating with the first base station. In another design the first base station may be a pico base station and the second base station may be a macro base station. The first and second base stations may also be other types of base stations in other scenarios.

In one design of block for communication on the downlink the UE may receive at least one synchronization signal e.g. the PSS and SSS sent by the first base station in a center portion of the first frequency band. The center portion may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The UE may receive a control channel e.g. the PCFICH or PHICH sent by the first base station across the first frequency band. The UE may also receive a control channel e.g. the PDCCH and or a data channel e.g. the PDSCH sent by the first base station to the UE in a portion of the first frequency band. This portion may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. For a given channel the UE may obtain received symbols for the channel estimate interference observed by the received symbols and decode the received symbols by taking into account the estimated interference to recover the information sent in the channel. In one design the UE may discard received symbols with high interference and may decode the undiscarded received symbols to recover the information sent in the channel. In another design the UE may weigh the received symbols based on the estimated interference and may decode the weighted received symbols to recover the information sent in the channel. The UE may estimate the interference based on the received power of a reference signal and or other transmissions from the second base station. The UE may obtain multiple interference estimates for different parts of the first frequency band.

In one design the UE may determine whether a given control channel e.g. the PCFICH from the first base station can be reliably decoded. The UE may decode the control channel if it can be reliably decoded and may use a default value for the control channel if it cannot be reliably decoded.

In another design of block for communication on the uplink the UE may send a control channel e.g. the PUCCH to the first base station in a control region of the first frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The UE may also send a data channel e.g. the PUSCH to the first base station in a data region of the first frequency band. The data region may be assignable for data transmission on the uplink and may be non overlapping with the second frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with the data region.

For a restricted association scenario the first base station may be a macro base station and the second base station may be a femto base station with restricted access and observing high interference from the UE on uplink. In other scenarios the first base station may be a macro base station and the second base station may be a pico base station a relay etc.

In one design of block for communication on the downlink the first base station may send at least one synchronization signal e.g. the PSS and SSS in a center portion of the first frequency band for use by UEs to detect the first base station. The first frequency band may be non overlapping with a center portion of the second frequency band used by the second base station to send the synchronization signal s . The first base station may send at least one control channel e.g. the PCFICH and PHICH across the first frequency band. The at least one control channel may cause high interference to a portion of the second frequency band for the second base station. The first base station may also send a control channel e.g. the PDCCH and or a data channel e.g. the PDSCH in the first frequency band.

In another design of block for communication on the uplink the first base station may receive a control channel e.g. the PUCCH sent by at least one UE in a control region of the first frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with a control region of the second frequency band e.g. as shown in . The first base station may also receive a data channel e.g. the PUSCH sent by the at least one UE in a data portion of the first frequency band.

For a restricted association scenario the first base station may be a femto base station with restricted access and the second base station may be a macro base station. The first and second base stations may also be other types of base stations in other scenarios.

In one design of block for communication on the downlink the UE may receive at least one synchronization signal e.g. the PSS and SSS sent by the first base station in a center portion of the first frequency band block . The first frequency band may be non overlapping with the center portion of the second frequency band used by the second base station to send the synchronization signal s . The UE may receive at least one control channel e.g. the PCFICH and PHICH sent by the first base station across the first frequency band. The at least one control channel may cause high interference to a portion of the second frequency band for the second base station. The UE may also receive a control channel e.g. the PDCCH and or a data channel e.g. the PDSCH sent by the first base station in the first frequency band.

In another design of block for communication on the uplink the UE may send a control channel e.g. the PUCCH to the first base station in a control region of the first frequency band. The control region may be non overlapping with a control region of the second frequency band e.g. as shown in . The UE may also send a data channel e.g. the PUSCH to the first base station in a data portion of the first frequency band.

The modules in may comprise processors electronics devices hardware devices electronics components logical circuits memories software codes firmware codes etc. or any combination thereof.

At base station a transmit processor may receive data from a data source and control information from a controller processor . The control information may be for the PBCH PCFICH PHICH PDCCH etc. The data may be for the PDSCH etc. Processor may process e.g. encode and symbol map the data and control information to obtain data symbols and control symbols respectively. Processor may also generate reference symbols e.g. for the PSS SSS and cell specific reference signal. A transmit TX multiple input multiple output MIMO processor may perform spatial processing e.g. precoding on the data symbols the control symbols and or the reference symbols if applicable and may provide T output symbol streams to T modulators MODs through . Each modulator may process a respective output symbol stream e.g. for OFDM etc. to obtain an output sample stream. Each modulator may further process e.g. convert to analog amplify filter and upconvert the output sample stream to obtain a downlink signal. T downlink signals from modulators through may be transmitted via T antennas through respectively.

At UE antennas through may receive the downlink signals from base station and may provide received signals to demodulators DEMODs through respectively. Each demodulator may condition e.g. filter amplify downconvert and digitize a respective received signal to obtain input samples. Each demodulator may further process the input samples e.g. for OFDM etc. to obtain received symbols. A MIMO detector may obtain received symbols from all R demodulators through perform MIMO detection on the received symbols if applicable and provide detected symbols. A receive processor may process e.g. demodulate deinterleave and decode the detected symbols provide decoded data for UE to a data sink and provide decoded control information to a controller processor .

On the uplink at UE a transmit processor may receive and process data e.g. for the PUSCH from a data source and control information e.g. for the PUCCH from controller processor . Processor may also generate reference symbols for a reference signal. The symbols from transmit processor may be precoded by a TX MIMO processor if applicable further processed by modulators through e.g. for SC FDM etc. and transmitted to base station . At base station the uplink signals from UE may be received by antennas processed by demodulators detected by a MIMO detector if applicable and further processed by a receive processor to obtain decoded data and control information sent by UE . Processor may provide the decoded data to a data sink and the decoded control information to controller processor .

Controllers processors and may direct the operation at base station and UE respectively. Processor and or other processors and modules at base station may perform or direct process in process in and or other processes for the techniques described herein. Processor and or other processors and modules at UE may also perform or direct process in process in and or other processes for the techniques described herein. Memories and may store data and program codes for base station and UE respectively. A scheduler may schedule UEs for data transmission on the downlink and or uplink.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

