---

title: Communication log with extracted keywords from speech-to-text processing
abstract: A computing device may extract keywords from a phone call or other audio communication and later display those keywords in a call log or in a caller ID. In one example, a method performed by at least one processor of a first computing device includes receiving speech inputs during an audio communication between the first computing device and a second device. The method further includes performing speech-to-text processing on the speech inputs to generate text based on the speech inputs. The method further includes performing keyword extraction processing on the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text, that score highly as relevant indicators of the audio communication, based on one or more keyword extraction criteria. The method further includes storing the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with the second device. The method further includes outputting the one or more keywords, in association with the identifying information associated with the second device, at a display of the first computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606576&OS=08606576&RS=08606576
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08606576
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
Many mobile computing devices such as smartphones and tablet computers have touchscreens that provide graphical outputs and enable users to enter inputs via touch gestures and or virtual or hardware keyboards or buttons. Mobile computing devices may also provide audio outputs and enable user inputs via virtual or hardware keyboards and buttons. Mobile computing devices may provide a variety of functions including telephony email text messaging and web browsing functions. A mobile computing device may keep records of incoming and outgoing telephone calls emails and text messages and may provide options to display or modify those records.

In one example a method is performed by at least one processor of a first computing device. The method includes receiving one or more speech inputs during an audio communication between the first computing device and a second device. The method further includes performing speech to text processing on the one or more speech inputs to generate text based on the one or more speech inputs. The method further includes performing keyword extraction processing on the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text that score highly as relevant indicators of the audio communication based on one or more keyword extraction criteria. The method further includes storing the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with the second device. The method further includes outputting the one or more keywords in association with the identifying information associated with the second device at a display of the first computing device.

In another example a computing device includes at least one processor a computer readable storage medium and machine readable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. The machine readable code includes instructions that are executable by the at least one processor to receive a speech input. The machine readable code further includes instructions that are executable by the at least one processor to perform speech to text processing on the speech input to generate text based on the speech input. The machine readable code further includes instructions that are executable by the at least one processor to perform keyword extraction processing on the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text. The machine readable code further includes instructions that are executable by the at least one processor to store the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with a contact. The machine readable code further includes instructions that are executable by the at least one processor to output a graphical depiction of the one or more keywords and the contact at a display of the computing device.

In another example a computer readable storage medium includes instructions executable by at least one processor of a computing device to receive a speech input. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to perform speech to text processing on the speech input to generate text based on the speech input. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to perform keyword extraction processing on the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to store the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with a contact. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to output a graphical depiction of the one or more keywords and the contact at a display of the computing device.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The various described features are not drawn to scale and are drawn in a simplified form in which one or more features relevant to the present application are emphasized. Like reference characters denote like elements throughout the figures and text.

In general this disclosure is directed to a computing device that extracts keywords of a conversation in an audio communication such as a telephone call that may be useful indicators of topics of the conversation and that displays the keywords along with contact identification in a communication log entry associated with that audio communication in a call log or a combined communication log. The user can then see the keywords in the call log along with the other information such as the name phone number and or thumbnail image of the other participant in the phone call the date and time of the call and whether it was an incoming or outgoing call for example. The user may therefore look through the call log or communication log and at a glance be reminded of a few keywords from the conversation or other communication which may aid the user in recalling the context and substance of the phone call or other communication beyond what may be possible from a more traditional call log that merely lists contacts and times for each phone call. Additionally when another caller uses a device to initiate a phone call to the user s computing device and that caller has a log entry in the communication log the computing device may display the keywords from the last conversation along with or as part of the caller identification caller ID while the computing device is ringing or otherwise in the process of providing a notification of an incoming phone call. This inclusion of log entry keywords from a prior conversation as part of the caller ID may enable the user to glance at the log entry keywords displayed with the caller ID and quickly be reminded of the last conversation with the current caller before answering the phone call. This keyword extraction system may be made available to a user on an optional basis so that the computing device will not use the keyword extraction system unless the user decides to activate the keyword extraction system.

For example communication log entry may represent a phone call or other audio communication that computing device previously placed received or was involved in and computing device may have generated communication log entry based on the phone call. This and certain other examples below are discussed in terms of a phone call as one example of an audio communication with the understanding that all of the discussion of a phone call may apply equally to any other audio communication. Other examples of an audio communication are also discussed below. During the phone call computing device may have performed speech to text processing on speech inputs to generate text based on the speech inputs. This may apply to speech inputs made by the user of computing device received via a microphone and or to speech inputs received from a participant on the other end of the phone call whose speech inputs may be received via a signal received by computing device from a remote resource such as via a wireless network for example. Receiving the speech inputs from the remote participant in the phone call may involve receiving a signal through a wireless or hard line network interface and may involve decoding the signal into a speech input for example. Any acoustic signal from any participant of a phone call may include a speech input that may be processed for keywords in various implementations.

In either case computing device may perform speech to text processing on the speech inputs where the speech to text processing may result in a set of text that represents the speech inputs and that may form a transcription of the speech inputs. Computing device may use any of a wide variety of speech to text processing techniques or methods for generating text based on the speech inputs from relatively simple to highly sophisticated techniques. For example computing device may use a speech to text processing system trained with natural language processing NLP or other machine learning or pattern recognition techniques. For example computing device may have stored thereon or have access to an NLP engine that may be trained with a large corpus of spoken word input and that may model speech inputs using Hidden Markov Modeling HMM and or extensions to HMM or any other modeling techniques. Computing device may use separate systems or stages for modeling audio properties of an audio signal and for modeling the correspondence of the audio properties of the audio signal with language properties of a selected spoken language and each of these systems or stages may be individually trained using machine learning or pattern recognition techniques.

Computing device may include or make use of language models of any of a large variety of different languages in the process of selecting the keywords from English Chinese Spanish French German Japanese or any other language including those with lower populations of speakers or lower rates of anticipated usage in a particular market. Computing device may be set to an initial default language to use for its language models for performing keyword extraction processing which may be set according to a market the computing device is originally sold in but may also enable options for the user to select from any of a wide variety of default languages to specify. Computing device may also be enabled to detect if a phone call or other communication is in a different language and switch to using a language model for the detected language. Computing device may also on an opt in basis if selected by the user cooperate with remote resources such as a server side speech to text processing application for performing or contributing to at least a portion of the speech to text processing.

Computing device may make the keyword extraction system available to a user on an optional basis so that the computing device will not use the keyword extraction system unless the user opts to allow the computing device to use the keyword extraction system. Computing device may make the keyword extraction system available as an opt in system so that the keyword extraction system is disabled or not installed by default and only becomes enabled or installed if the user affirmatively selects an option to use the keyword extraction system. The keyword extraction system may include documentation and tutorials to help users understand how it works and gain a complete understanding of the system prior to deciding whether to turn it on or begin to use it. The keyword extraction system may also include privacy controls to give a user options regarding usage of the keyword extraction system such as to set a time limit on how long the keywords are stored as one example.

Computing device may also make use of any of a sophisticated body of keyword extraction techniques that have been developed in other areas such as search and context specific online advertising for example for identifying and picking out highly relevant individual words from a body of text. Computing device may use any of a wide variety of speech to text processing techniques for generating text based on the speech inputs. Once it has generated text based on the speech inputs computing device may perform keyword extraction processing to the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text e.g. by identifying highly relevant individual words from the text or words that score highly on a test for how relevant characteristic or descriptive they are relative to the text as a whole. The keyword extraction processing techniques include techniques to score individual words in the text e.g. keyword candidates as relevant indicators of the audio communication based on one or more keyword extraction criteria. Various examples of such keyword extraction criteria for scoring the indicative relevance of words in a text identifying words that score highly on these keyword extraction criteria and generating keywords from such highly scoring keyword candidates are described below.

Computing device may use any of a wide variety of keyword extraction processing techniques. For example keyword extraction processing techniques used by computing device may have access to a dictionary in a selected human language with each of the words in the dictionary tagged according to its relative frequency in common usage of the language. The keyword extraction processing techniques used by computing device may then give weight to a potential keyword based on how relatively uncommon the word is in the language how many times the word is used in the conversation in the audio communication what other words the word is used with whether the word is used by both or at least two participants in the conversation in the audio communication or whether or how often the word is used as part of a phrase and how relatively uncommon the phrase is for example. Keyword extraction processing techniques may also use statistical methods to model how uncommonly significant a keyword candidate is likely to be.

For example the English word the is extremely common and might be ignored as a potential keyword candidate no matter how frequently it appears in a conversation. On the other hand the English word basketball may be somewhat uncommon in ordinary conversations and three or four occurrences of the word basketball within a few minutes of conversation may be statistically very uncommon relative to ordinary usage and an excellent indication that the word basketball is a valuable contextual reminder of the phone call or other audio communication and should be highly ranked as a keyword candidate. Other words such as diffeomorphism may be even more uncommon in ordinary usage such that only two or even only one occurrence of such a very uncommon word may indicate that it is a valuable contextual reminder of the phone call and is highly likely to distinguish the phone call in the user s memory and should be highly ranked as a keyword candidate. After the phone call is over or on an ongoing basis during the phone call computing device may compare the most highly ranked keyword candidates and may select the most highly ranked candidates as the keywords to retain or may apply additional criteria before selecting a finalized list of keywords.

The keyword extraction techniques executed by computing device may also include techniques for disambiguating potentially ambiguous words. For example computing device may transcribe or otherwise detect the English word java from a phone call and may then compare the context of surrounding words to disambiguate the intended usage of the word java. If computing device detects the word java in close proximity to the words beans or coffee it may disambiguate the intended usage of the word to a meaning associated with coffee while if computing device detects the word java in close proximity to the word compile or the phrase garbage collection it may disambiguate the intended usage of the word to a meaning associated with the programming language Java. If instead computing device detects the word java in close proximity to the words Indonesia or Borneo it may disambiguate the intended usage of the word to a meaning associated with the island of Java. Computing device may also employ ongoing flexible disambiguation with reference to continuous detection of words after an initial disambiguation such that for example if it initially detects the word java and then the words beans or coffee and disambiguates the intended meaning to refer to coffee but soon afterward detects the words NetBeans or CoffeeScript it may revise the disambiguation to refer instead to the programming language.

Keyword extraction processing techniques may also incorporate training based on natural language processing NLP or other machine learning or pattern recognition techniques for example. Computing device may also use techniques that incorporate processing of the audio signal together with the keyword extraction processing techniques rather than only applying the keyword extraction processing techniques to the resulting text output from the speech to text processing. For example the keyword extraction processing may also use clues from the audio signal such as an inflection or tone of voice with which a word is spoken. Such a vocal emphasis on a particular word may be interpreted by adding weight to that word as a keyword candidate. Keyword extraction processing based directly on the audio signal may also incorporate statistical modeling training using machine learning or pattern recognition techniques to name a few examples.

Computing device may closely coordinate the speech to text processing and the keyword extraction processing to minimize the creation or storage of extensive text transcriptions of a conversation in one example. In one implementation computing device may delete the text transcription of a phone call as soon as the phone call is terminated or as soon as the keywords from the phone call are extracted. Computing device may also continuously delete the text transcriptions during the phone call in a rolling process with keyword extraction. This deletion of text transcriptions may be done according to a certain limit on the period of time of the phone call for which the text transcriptions are kept so that at any point in time computing device only maintains a text transcription of the previous five minutes ten minutes or some other interval of the phone conversation in a first in first out rolling record and continuously deletes the text transcription for the phone call prior to the threshold of that interval as the phone call progresses. In another implementation computing device may limit the text transcription to a maximum number of words or a maximum number of characters and continuously delete the transcription from the oldest remaining portion as it continues to add transcriptions of the newest portions of the conversation also in a first in first out rolling record as the phone call progresses.

If computing device accesses any server side resources to execute any of the functions involved in speech to text processing or keyword extraction processing computing device may apply an initial processing function to send only promising keyword candidates e.g. words that pass an initial or basic screening function for value as a potential keyword in isolation for server side processing instead of strings of text. The server side resources may then retain the keyword candidates only ephemerally long enough to perform the processing steps and return its results to computing device and then delete the data sent to it by computing device . If a particular implementation uses the option of accessing server side resources computing device may refrain from accessing the server side resources by default and only enable accessing the server side resources if a user opts to do so in selectable user settings. In some implementations computing device may include sufficient processing resources and communication log application may include sufficient algorithmic sophistication to perform all required speech to text and keyword extraction processing with high performance and without any compelling advantage by accessing server side resources. Computing device as the device that originally receives the physical acoustic signal of the user s speech inputs may have access to the highest signal quality possible for the speech inputs which may contribute to the quality of results of NLP and keyword extraction processing performed by computing device as opposed to a server side resource or other computing device that processes a downstream audio signal originally generated by computing device .

In other implementations computing device may employ an ongoing intermediate analysis of candidate keywords to enable an even lighter use of stored transcriptions. That is computing device may evaluate each word as a potential candidate keyword and then either store or delete that word and continuously delete most of the words from the text transcription within a few seconds of their transcription. Computing device may then only retain in storage a minority of the words in isolation as potential candidate keywords and subsequently may also perform additional keyword candidate processing. For example computing device may initially select relatively uncommon words as potential candidate keywords and only retain these relatively uncommon words for more than a few seconds past their original creation. Computing device may subsequently compare the frequency of these retained words and promote potential candidate keywords that are used several times in the phone call while eventually discarding potential candidate keywords that do not reappear after their initial retention as an illustrative example of using an intermediate step of keyword extraction processing. Computing device may expose all of these and other implementations as user options for a user to have freedom to select how much if any of a text transcription of the phone call is generated or retained at any point in time.

Computing device may use any of a wide variety of keyword extraction processing techniques for generating text based on the speech inputs. Computing device may compare a number of candidate keywords and select one or more candidate keywords as the keywords for the conversation or other speech input or communication. Computing device may select from among candidate keywords from a series of speech inputs from both the user of computing device and one or more remote participants to the conversation in a phone call and computing device may select one or more keywords from among all the speech inputs as its final selections for the keywords for the conversation in that phone call.

After computing device selects one or more keywords computing device may store those keywords in a data storage component or in a memory such as in a call log data store and or in a caller ID data store. Computing device may later retrieve the keywords from storage and or memory such as when computing device implements a call log or caller ID function. Computing device may output a graphical representation or depiction of the one or more selected keywords at a display of the computing device such as at presence sensitive display . As shown in and as further depicted in subsequent figures each of the communication log entries included in communication log includes one or more keywords selected from the phone call corresponding to each of the communication log entries . As depicted in computing device may also associate the one or more keywords with a contact identified as a remote participant in the telephone call. Any of the one or more keywords may have originated from the remote participant in the phone call the user of computing device or both. A user may then open or scroll through communication log and review the keywords associated with each phone call or other communication and the keywords may rapidly remind the user of the subjects or context of each of the phone calls or other communications. The keywords may therefore make the communication log more informative and more useful than a log of just contacts and times associated with the communications. Additional details of example computing devices are described in further detail below with respect to subsequent figures including the example of .

Computing device may include various components including one or more processors memory a network interface one or more data storage devices power source one or more microphones one or more speakers and presence sensitive display which may be a touchscreen or other presence sensitive display. Each of the components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively in any of a variety of physical and or communicative connection means for inter component communications and each one may refer to one or more components.

Computing device has operating system stored on one or more storage devices and that may execute on one or more processors . Operating system in various examples may control aspects of the operation of components of computing device and facilitate operation of higher level software applications. Computing device in this example has applications that may include a keyword communication log application that is executable by computing device for operating a communication log with keywords extracted from the communications as described above. Keyword communication log application may include executable instructions to perform or facilitate any or all of the keyword extraction and outputting features and behavior discussed in this disclosure or any other aspects of this disclosure. Applications may also include speech to text processing application and or keyword extraction processing application either as separate applications that may interact with or be used together with keyword communication log application or as libraries that may be accessed or used by keyword communication log application or as portions of keyword communication log application for example.

Operating system in one example may facilitate the interaction of keyword communication log application with speech to text processing application keyword extraction processing application and or with any or all of processors memory network interface data storage device power source one or more microphones one or more speakers and presence sensitive display . Keyword communication log application may in some examples include executable instructions to perform speech to text processing on a speech input received by a computing device to generate text based on the speech input. Keyword communication log application may also include executable instructions to perform keyword extraction processing on the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text. Keyword communication log application may also include executable instructions to output a graphical depiction of the one or more keywords at a display of the computing device. Keyword communication log application may further include executable instructions to perform or facilitate any or all of the features or behavior discussed in this disclosure or any other aspects of this disclosure.

Keyword communication log application may be an independent application or application process and keyword communication log application may use data from other resources such as audio data from microphone and or from a telephony application in some examples. Keyword communication log application may also be portions of executable code within a single application or application process in some examples. Part or all of the functions of keyword communication log application may also be performed supported or facilitated by portions of the operating system as further described below. Operating system in one example may facilitate the interaction of keyword communication log application with any or all of processors memory network interface data storage device power source and or presence sensitive display .

Keyword communication log application may include program instructions and or data that are executable by computing device or by at least one of the one or more processors of computing device . For example application may include computer executable software instructions that cause computing device to perform any one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. In various examples operating system and keyword communication log application may include code and or data that are stored on one or more data storage devices and that are read and executed or processed by one or more processors and may in the process be stored at least temporarily in memory .

In the illustrative implementation of computing device depicted in operating system may include an operating system kernel which may include various device drivers kernel extensions and kernel modules for example. Operating system may also include or interact with a set of libraries which may include various more or less standard specialized open source and or proprietary libraries. These may include a specialized library such as communication framework that may perform or support functions of extracting keywords from phone calls or other communications and displaying the keywords in a communication log or a caller ID in accordance with any of the examples described herein. Performing or supporting functions of extracting keywords from phone calls or other communications and displaying the keywords in a communication log or a caller ID in the operating system such as with communication framework rather than only at the level of a top layer application may enable processing at least some of the functions involved such as performing speech to text processing or performing keyword extraction processing with faster or more computationally efficient performance or other advantages in some implementations. For example in some implementations performing speech to text functions by communication framework or otherwise by resources embedded in the operating system may facilitate accessing and processing the audio signal of the phone call in realtime and the computational efficiency of the speech to text processing.

In an illustrative implementation of computing device such as that depicted in operating system may also include or interact with a runtime which may include various core libraries and or a virtual machine which may be the Dalvik virtual machine in an example implementation. Virtual machine may abstract certain aspects and properties of computing device and allow higher level applications to execute in the environment of virtual machine so that software code in the higher level applications may be compiled into bytecode to be executed by the virtual machine . Computing device may also have an application framework that executes on top of runtime and libraries and that may include resources to facilitate the execution of applications that execute on top of application framework . Other embodiments may include other elements of a software stack between the operating system kernel and the top level applications .

Application framework may for example include a telephony manager that itself may include executable instructions to perform or facilitate any or all of functions of extracting keywords from phone calls or other communications and displaying the keywords in a communication log or a caller ID or any other aspects of this disclosure. Performing or supporting functions of extracting keywords from phone calls or other communications and displaying the keywords in a communication log or a caller ID in the application framework such as with telephony manager whether or not in combination with communication framework may also enable performing at least some of the processing tasks involved with faster or more computationally efficient performance or other advantages in some implementations. Computing device may perform or facilitate any speech to text processing keyword extraction processing keyword communication log display processing or any other functions described herein with any one or all of the keyword communication log application speech to text processing application keyword extraction processing application telephony manager in the application framework communication framework in the libraries or any other element of the software stack included in or operatively accessible to computing device .

In various examples executable instructions for applications or software elements such as keyword communication log application may be written in C or C which may be executable as native code by computing device . In various examples executable instructions for applications or software elements such as keyword communication log application may be written in Java then compiled to virtual machine executable bytecode to be executed by virtual machine ultimately to be executed as native code by computing device under the abstraction of virtual machine as another example. In another illustrative example executable instructions for applications or software elements such as keyword communication log application may be compiled from a higher level language such as JavaScript directly into native machine code for execution by one or more processors.

In another illustrative example libraries may include the Standard C Library libc or another C library which provides native support for C functions and keyword communication log application may be written in C and be supported by libc in libraries . In different implementations the operating system and or the virtual machine may be able to execute code written in various other languages such as Objective C C C Go Python Ruby JavaScript Dart or Clojure to name only a few non limiting examples either natively or compiled into a virtual machine executable bytecode or compiled into an assembly language or machine code native to one or more of the processors of computing device for example. Various examples may not use a virtual machine and may use applications that run natively on the computing device or that use some other technique compiler interpreter or abstraction layer for interpreting a higher level language into code that runs natively on computing device .

Communication framework libraries or other aspect of operating system or the software stack underlying the applications may include code for providing any or all of the functionality for performing haptic feedback for emulating key edges in accordance with any of the examples described herein and may abstract this functionality at an underlying level for applications . Code for implementing the functionality of any of the aspects of this disclosure may therefore be included in any level or portion of the entire software stack running on computing device or that is operatively accessible to computing device such as in a web application or other program executing on resources outside of computing device but that interact with computing device such as via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP over a wireless connection for example.

In various examples computing device may also have various application programming interfaces API s that are native to operating system and that run on top of operating system and which are intended to provide resources that automate or facilitate higher level applications that access the one or more API s. These one or more API s may include object libraries or other libraries toolsets or frameworks and may be associated with a native programming environment for writing applications. Computing device may also have a different specific organization of API s libraries frameworks runtime and or virtual machine associated with or built on top of operating system other than the example organization depicted in .

Higher level applications such as keyword communication log application may therefore make use of any of various abstractions properties libraries or lower level functions that may be provided by any of operating system OS kernel libraries communication framework runtime core libraries virtual machine application framework telephony manager or other compilers interpreters frameworks API s or other types of resources or any combination of the above with which computing device is configured to enable functions such as haptic feedback for emulating key edges and other functions as described herein.

The one or more processors in various examples may be configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on data storage devices . Computing device may include multiple processors and may divide certain tasks among different processors. For example processors may include a central processing unit CPU which may have one or more processing cores. Processors may also include one or more graphics processing units GPU s and or additional processors. Processors may be configured for multi threaded processing. Processors and or operating system may divide tasks among different processors or processor cores according to various criteria and various tasks or portions of tasks may also be divided among different layers of software and hardware.

Memory in various examples may be configured to store information within computing device during operation. Memory in various examples may include a computer readable storage medium. In various examples memory is a temporary memory and computing device relies more on one or more data storage devices than memory for long term storage. Memory in various examples may be a volatile memory meaning that memory may not maintain stored contents for a long duration of time once it is powered down such as when computing device is turned off. Examples of volatile memories that may characterize memory include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories. In various examples memory may be used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Memory in various examples may be used by software or applications running on computing device to temporarily store data and or software code during execution of an application.

One or more data storage devices in various examples may include a computer readable storage medium or multiple computer readable storage media. Data storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Data storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In various examples data storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. In other examples memory may also be configured for long term data storage and any of a variety of technologies may blur the lines between memory and data storage and between volatile and non volatile. Memory and data storage devices may also include different levels of caches and any of various buffers or other temporary memories that may be incorporated at any of various levels of a processing architecture and with various latency and capacity profiles including a dedicated cache exclusive to a processing core or processing chip for example.

Computing device in various examples may also include a network interface . Computing device in one example utilizes network interface to communicate with external devices such as servers or data centers via one or more networks which may include one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be or include a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of component that is configured to send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G 4G LTE and WiFi radios configured for mobile computing devices as well as USB. In various examples computing device may use network interface to communicate wirelessly with an external device such as a server or data center that may provide data to computing device .

Computing device in various examples may also include one or more input and or output devices such as presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may include a liquid crystal display LCD display screen or display screen that uses another type of graphical output technology. Presence sensitive display may also be a touchscreen that may include an electrically capacitive layer sensitive to the presence of touch and configured to translate the positions of touch gesture inputs and the motions of touch gesture inputs as they change position over time into signals to provide to a driver for the touchscreen or other feature for receiving the information on the gesture inputs. Presence sensitive display may also be another type of touch sensitive or otherwise presence sensitive display in other examples.

Computing device may also include or be configured to connect with any of a variety of other input and or output devices such as speakers microphones physical buttons a physical keyboard a mouse a touchpad a trackball a voice user interface system an acoustic vibration component a sound card a video graphics adapter card a video camera connected to a video gesture input interpretation system or any other type of device for detecting and or interpreting inputs from a user or for converting a signal into a form of graphical audio tactile or other form of user output that can be sensed by a user.

Computing device in various examples may include one or more power sources which may be rechargeable and provide power to computing device . Power source in various examples may be a lithium ion battery a nickel cadmium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or other suitable power source.

As shown in communication log entries each include a graphic depiction of what type of communication the communication log entry is based on such as a phone call a text message or an email. Communication log entries and each include a telephone icon indicating that these communication log entries are based on phone calls. Communication log entry includes a text message icon indicating that communication log entry is based on a text message. Communication log entries and each include an email icon indicating that these communication log entries are based on emails. In one example implementation if a text message or an email was only one or two words in length or was otherwise very short communication log entries for the text message or the email may simply reproduce the text message or email itself as the keyword or keywords. In other implementations a communication log may be simply a call log that includes only call log entries for telephone calls. Communication log also includes a date caption indicating the date corresponding to each of the communication log entries listed below it and each of the communication log entries includes a time corresponding to the communication. Additional features of the communication log entries are described with reference to .

The contact list may have stored therein an image associated with the other phone call participant. Computing device may display this photo in the communication log entry as in the case of communication log entry which includes a photographic image associated with the other phone call participant in the associated phone call. Communication log entry also includes an arrow icon which indicates that the associated phone call was an outgoing phone call. Referring again to each of the depicted example communication log entries include an arrow icon that graphically indicates whether the associated communication was an outgoing or incoming communication. In particular as shown in communication log entries and are for incoming phone calls communication log entry is for an outgoing text message communication log entry is for an outgoing phone call communication log entry is for an incoming email and communication log entry is for an outgoing email.

With reference again to communication log entry also includes a graphical indication of the time at which the associated phone call was initiated. Each of the communication log entries communication log also include a graphical indication of the time at which the associated communication was initiated or received. This is in combination with date caption in which graphically indicates the date for all the communication log entries listed under it. In another implementation each individual communication log entry may include graphical indications of both the date and time for example.

In one illustrative implementation computing device may select just one or a small number of keywords to display in an individual communication log entry in the communication log such as the three keywords displayed in communication log entry while computing device may store additional keywords for the associated conversation. For example computing device may enable each communication log entry in the communication log to be selected for expansion so that if a user selects communication log entry for expansion for example computing device may then output an expanded form of communication log entry that includes additional retained keywords beyond those displayed in the non expanded format of communication log entry as included in communication log . Computing device may also provide user options for how many keywords to store for each phone call and whether or not to enable expanded format communication log entries. Computing device may therefore respond to a user input to expand a communication log entry by expanding the graphical depiction of the one or more keywords to include additional keywords that may also be based on the speech input from a phone call. Any particular speech input included in a phone call or any or all of the collective audio inputs received in a phone call may be considered to be a speech input for any purpose in this disclosure in various examples.

As noted above when someone calls the user s computing device and that caller has a log entry in the communication log the computing device may display the keywords from the last conversation along with the caller ID while the computing device is ringing or otherwise notifying of an incoming phone call. This may enable the user to glance at the log entry keywords displayed along with the caller ID and quickly be reminded of the last conversation with the current caller before answering the phone. This is depicted in .

Computing device may recognize the same identifying information associated with the newly incoming phone call and may display information associated with this device as a caller ID while the phone call is incoming. Computing device may also have contact information stored in association with the identifying information for the device or for multiple devices so that computing device may also display customized information related to the contact rather than merely a phone number for the caller ID. This is the case in the example depicted in wherein computing device displays a graphical indication of the contact s name and a graphical depiction of an image associated with the contact . In other examples computing device may have keywords stored in association only with a phone number IMEI or other identifying information without any associated contact information and computing device may display the keywords in association with just the phone number or other information identified for an incoming phone call.

As depicted in computing device also outputs a graphical depiction of one or more keywords stored from the previous conversation. Computing device outputs the keywords in the form of a graphical rendering or display of text in the example of . Referring also to one or more processors of computing device may also output the keywords or data encoding a graphical depiction of the keywords along with other caller ID data to presence sensitive display or to any other display device. Presence sensitive display or any other display device may then output the keywords or a graphical depiction of the keywords in that they respond to receiving the data or the signal from one or more processors by displaying or rendering a visually perceptible depiction of the keywords.

By displaying keywords from the user s previous conversation with the contact as part of the caller ID as depicted in computing device may rapidly remind the user of the previous conversation. The user may then glance at the keywords along with the contact s name and image in the display of the caller ID within the time it might take for the user to see and consider the caller ID and then answer the incoming phone call and recall the content of the previous phone call. Computing device executing communication log application may therefore help the user to be more prepared for the new incoming phone call with the contact and potentially to follow up on the subjects discussed in the previous phone call as needed or to resume discussion of the previously discussed subjects more thoughtfully or without an awkward pause while the user stirs her memory.

As noted above while various examples are discussed illustratively in terms of a phone call as an example of an audio communication techniques of this disclosure may also be applied to any other type of audio communication involving one or more computing devices or other devices. Various examples applicable to phone calls or other audio communications may be performed by computing devices such as desktop or laptop computers tablet computing devices or wearable computing devices having a wearable form factor such as a wristwatch glasses or headset form factor for instance. Any of these or other types of computing devices may perform keyword extraction techniques and other aspects as disclosed herein. Computing devices may apply techniques of this disclosure to an audio communication in the form of a phone call a network based audio web application session an audio portion of a network based audio video web application session or any other audio communication. The audio communication may be any session or instance of any type of web application configured for enabling or communicating a conversation among two or more users or callers. These may include voice chat through a chat or email web application combined voice and video web applications Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone calls any other Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communications or any other audio communications facilitated by a computing device.

In process a computing device or processor s thereof may execute instructions such as those of keyword communication log application . In this example making reference to elements of the earlier figures first computing device receives one or more speech inputs during an audio communication between the first computing device and a second device where the second device may be the device used by the contact. Computing device may receive some of the one or more speech inputs from the user of computing device such as via microphone which may receive acoustic vibrations and respond by transmitting an audio signal based on the acoustic vibrations to other components such as one or more processors . Computing device may also receive some of the one or more speech inputs from the second device in audio signals with which the second device conveys the contact s speech inputs to computing device . The second device i.e. the contact s or other caller s device may also be a computing device such as a smartphone tablet laptop computer etc. or may be any other device capable of communicating audio signals conveying the contact s speech inputs such as a traditional land line telephone for example.

Computing device may also perform speech to text processing on the one or more speech inputs received by computing device to generate text based on the one or more speech inputs . For example one or more processors of computing device may perform speech to text processing executing instructions comprised in any one or more of communication log application speech to text processing application telephony manager communication framework or operating system to process the speech input and generate a text based on the speech input.

Computing device may also perform keyword extraction processing on the text to generate one or more keywords based on the text that score highly as relevant indicators of the audio communication based on one or more keyword extraction criteria . For example one or more processors of computing device may perform keyword extraction processing executing instructions comprised in any one or more of communication log application keyword extraction processing application telephony manager communication framework or operating system to generate one or more keywords based on the text. The keyword extraction criteria may include any one or more of how relatively uncommon a word is in a language how many times a word is used in the one or more speech inputs what other words a word is used with whether a word is used by at least two participants in the conversation and how many times the word is used as part of a phrase and how relatively uncommon the phrase is any other example discussed above or any other keyword extraction criterion.

Computing device may also store the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with the second device . For example one or more processors of computing device may store the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with the second device on one or more data storage devices and or in memory and or on any other data storage or memory component on a separate or remote resource in at least temporary operable connection with computing device . Computing device may also output the one or more keywords in association with identifying information associated with the second computing device at a display of the first computing device . For example one or more processors of computing device may execute instructions comprised in any one or more of communication log application telephony manager communication framework or operating system to identify a contact as a remote participant in the telephone call or other audio communication. One or more processors of computing device may identify the contact by identifying information associated with the contact s device or an account of the contact s such as a phone number an IMEI a subscriber identity module SIM card serial number an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI number an Internet Protocol IP address SIP configuration data an email account name or other online account identifier or other identifying information for a device with which a connection is established for the phone call or other audio communication with information for a contact stored in a contact list application on computing device . One or more processors of computing device may then associate the one or more keywords with the contact.

This may also include computing device outputting a graphical depiction of the one or more keywords at a display of the computing device such as at presence sensitive display . Outputting the graphical depiction of the one or more keywords may include one or more processors outputting a signal for a graphical depiction of the one or more keywords to a display for the display to render for example. Outputting the graphical depiction of the one or more keywords may also include presence sensitive display graphically rendering the graphical depiction of the one or more keywords. Outputting the graphical depiction of the one or more keywords may also include outputting graphical depictions in the form of communication log and or communication log entries as depicted in FIGS. and and in the caller ID depicted in that include graphical depictions of one or more keywords. Outputting the graphical depiction of the one or more keywords may also include outputting identifying information for the contact together with the one or more keywords such as in the communication log entries in FIGS. and and in the caller ID depicted in . Computing device may further perform any of the functions and processes described above with reference to . In other examples computing device may omit or vary one or more aspects of process as shown in or perform them in a different order or perform additional actions beyond those shown in .

Various techniques described herein may be implemented in software that may be written in any of a variety of languages making use of any of a variety of toolsets frameworks APIs programming environments virtual machines libraries and other computing resources as indicated above. For example software code for various implementations may be written in Java C Objective C C C Go JavaScript Dart Python Ruby Clojure assembly language machine code or any other language. As one specific illustrative example aspects of the disclosure discussed above may be implemented in a software module written in Java that is executable on virtual machine of for example.

Aspects of the disclosure may be equally applicable and implemented in any computing device or any operating system and using any other APIs frameworks or toolsets. Aspects are described herein for decoding and processing of data for virtual keyboard inputs and responsive haptic feedback which may interact with any other data store or application. When implemented in software or firmware various techniques disclosed herein may be realized at least in part by a computer readable data storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause a processor to perform one or more of the methods described above. For example the computer readable data storage medium may store such instructions for execution by a processor.

A computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may include packaging materials. A computer readable medium may comprise a computer data storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage media and the like. In various examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

In various examples the data storage devices and or memory may comprise computer readable storage media that may comprise non transitory media. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache . Data storage devices may include any of various forms of volatile memory that may require being periodically electrically refreshed to maintain data in memory while those skilled in the art will recognize that this also constitutes an example of a physical tangible non transitory computer readable data storage device. Executable instructions may be stored on a non transitory medium when program code is loaded stored relayed buffered or cached on a non transitory physical medium or device including if only for only a short duration or only in a volatile memory format. In some examples executable instructions may not be stored permanently in the local data storage comprised in a computing device and may be received temporarily from an external resource such as from a web service data center and or other server side resource yet those executable instructions may still be buffered cached or otherwise stored temporarily in a buffer memory cache memory processor registers or other temporary memory comprised in the computing device. In these examples the computing device may still comprise a computer readable storage medium on which the executable instructions are stored even if only temporarily.

Machine readable code may be stored on the data storage devices and or memory and may include executable instructions that are executable by at least one processor. Machine readable code and executable instructions may refer to any form of software code including machine code assembly instructions or assembly language bytecode software code in C or software code written in any language that may be compiled or interpreted into executable instructions that may be executable by at least one processor including software code written in languages that treat code as data to be processed or that enable code to manipulate or generate code.

The code or instructions may be software and or firmware executed by processing circuitry including one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSP s general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASIC s field programmable gate arrays FPGA s or other integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects functionality described in this disclosure may be provided within software modules or hardware modules.

The various embodiments described above and depicted in as well as additional embodiments are within the scope of one or more of the following claims.

