---

title: Artificial lift equipment power line communication
abstract: A system can include a transformer and a rectifier to derive DC power from AC power at a wye point of an electric motor; a sensor that includes a sensor signal output to output a sensor signal; a telemetry driver that includes a DC power input to receive the derived DC power and that includes an input to receive the sensor signal and an output to output a data signal representing the sensor signal; and circuitry to deliver the data signal representing the sensor signal to the wye point of the electric motor. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09206684&OS=09206684&RS=09206684
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09206684
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
Artificial lift equipment such as electric submersible pumps ESPs may be deployed for any of a variety of pumping purposes. For example where a substance does not readily flow responsive to existing natural forces an ESP may be implemented to artificially lift the substance. To receive power an ESP is connected to a cable or cables. In some instances the length of such a cable or cables may be of the order of several kilometers. A cable may also include one or more motor lead extensions MLEs spliced onto the cable. For example where the cable includes three conductor cores for powering a motor a MLE may be spliced onto each of the conductor cores. Length of a MLE may be for example on the order of a few meters to ten meters or more.

Some examples of available ESP cables include those rated at 3 kV 4 kV or 5 kV. As to configurations ESP cables may utilize a round cable configuration a flat cable configuration or other cable configuration. For example a round cable may be used where sufficient space exists in a wellbore and a flat cable may be used where clearance issues exist or to prevent clearance issues in a wellbore.

A power cable may provide for delivery of power and transmission of data. For example data may be communicated between one end of a 3 phase electrical power cable e.g. where an electrical motor is installed downhole and another end of the 3 phase electrical power cable e.g. where an electrical power source is located uphole . In such an example data generated by downhole equipment e.g. a sensor gauge etc. may be transmitted via the 3 phase electrical power cable to uphole data handling equipment. As an example a 3 phase electrical power cable may also deliver power to downhole equipment.

Where a 3 phase electrical power cable provides for delivery of power optionally to more than one piece of equipment and provides for transmission of data a ground fault of one or more of the power cable conductors can interrupt delivery of power transmission of data or both delivery of power and transmission of data. Various technologies techniques etc. described herein pertain to delivery of power transmission of data etc.

A system can include a transformer and a rectifier to derive DC power from AC power at a wye point of an electric motor a sensor to output a sensor signal a telemetry driver powered by the DC power and to receive the sensor signal and to output a data signal representing the sensor signal and circuitry to deliver the data signal representing the sensor signal to the wye point of the electric motor. A method can include receiving an AC power signal at a wye point of an electric motor deriving DC power from the AC power signal powering circuitry using the derived DC power and applying a data signal to the wye point using the circuitry. A system can include a pump with an electric motor and a wye point a power cable connected to the electric motor a telemetry driver powered by DC power a sensor and a transformer with where one winding passes DC power from the wye point to power the telemetry driver and another winding acts in stepping down AC power from the wye point for conversion to DC power to power the telemetry driver. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Electric submersible pumps ESPs may be deployed for any of a variety of pumping purposes. For example where a substance does not readily flow responsive to existing natural forces an ESP may be implemented to artificially lift the substance. Commercially available ESPs such as the REDA ESPs marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. may find use in applications that include for example pump rates in excess of 4 000 barrels per day and lift of 12 000 feet or more.

ESPs have associated costs including equipment costs replacement costs repair costs and power consumption costs. To assist with selection of ESP specifications a manufacturer may provide a plot with a pump performance curve that defines an optimal operating range for a given pump speed and fluid viscosity. Such a plot may include a head capacity curve that shows amount of lift per pump stage at a given flow rate a horsepower requirements curve across a range of flow capacities and a pump efficiency curve for example calculated from head flow capacity fluid specific gravity and horsepower. As an example an ESP may be specified as having a best efficiency point BEP of about 77 for a flow of about 7 900 barrels per day a head of about 50 feet and a horsepower of about 3.7 for a fluid specific gravity of 1.0 e.g. REDA 538 Series 1 stage at 3 500 RPM at 60 Hz . An ESP may be specified with a lift per stage such that a number of stages may be selected for an application to meet lift requirements.

An ESP or other downhole equipment may include one or more electric motors. A motor may be driven for example via a 3 phase power supply and a power cable or cables that provide a 3 phase AC power signal. As an example an ESP motor may be coupled to a 3 phase power signal via a balanced inductor network having a neutral ungrounded node which may be referred to as a wye node or wye point of the ESP motor. Voltage and current levels of the 3 phase AC power signal provided by a power supply to an ESP motor may be for example of the order of several kilovolts and tens of amperes and oscillate at a frequency of the order of about 60 Hz.

Adjustments may be made to an ESP for example where the ESP is outfitted with a variable speed drive VSD unit. A VSD unit can include an ESP controller such as for example the UniConn controller marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In combination a VSD unit with an ESP controller allows for variations in motor speed which may better manage power heat etc.

As an example an ESP may include one or more sensors e.g. gauges that measure any of a variety of phenomena e.g. temperature pressure vibration etc. . A commercially available sensor is the Phoenix MultiSensor marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which monitors intake and discharge pressures intake motor and discharge temperatures and vibration and current leakage. An ESP monitoring system may include a supervisory control and data acquisition system SCADA . Commercially available surveillance systems include the espWatcher and the LiftWatcher surveillance systems marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which provide for communication of data for example between a production team and well field data equipment e.g. with or without SCADA installations . Such a system may issue instructions to for example start stop or control ESP speed via an ESP controller.

As to power to power a sensor e.g. an active sensor circuitry associated with a sensor e.g. an active or a passive sensor or a sensor and circuitry associated with a sensor a DC power signal may be provided via an ESP cable and available at a wye point of an ESP motor for example powered by a 3 phase AC power signal. Where sufficient balance exists between the three phases of the AC power signal the DC power signal may be sufficient for demands of one or more sensors associated circuitry etc. However as explained further below where unbalance exceeds some reasonable level the DC power signal may become contaminated e.g. alternating at one or more frequencies and be unsuitable for powering one or more sensors associated circuitry etc. While a sensor associated circuitry etc. may include an integral voltage regulator for regulating a DC supply signal where unbalance exists the nature of the signal reaching the integral voltage regulator may be insufficient to produce sustainable DC power.

Transmission of data or communication of data may be at times referred to as telemetry. Telemetry circuitry may be circuitry associated with one or more sensors for example to transmit data uphole downhole or uphole and downhole e.g. sensed data data about sensor status data based at least in part on sensed data etc. . As an example a telemetry process may include multiplexing a low power communication signal on high voltage high current electrical circuitry that energizes a downhole motor. In such an example DC power may be delivered to electrical circuitry or derived from the electrical circuitry to energize downhole equipment other than the downhole motor. For example as mentioned DC power may be delivered in a manner where downhole equipment can tap the DC power at a wye point of a downhole motor energized by three conductors of a power cable that carry 3 phase power. As another example a secondary AC power signal may be delivered via a power cable in a manner such that the secondary AC power signal exists at the wye point. Such a secondary AC power signal may be smaller in terms of voltage and current e.g. overall power than a primary 3 phase AC power signal for powering a motor of an ESP. As yet another example a choke electrically connected to a wye point may provide for a DC power signal based on a small fraction of normal unbalance in a 3 phase AC power signal e.g. phase unbalance of a few percent . As an example where a piece of downhole equipment is powered by a DC power signal the secondary AC power signal may be converted to DC power signal.

As an example a power cable may provide for delivery of power to an ESP other downhole equipment or an ESP and other downhole equipment. Such a power cable may also provide for transmission of data to downhole equipment from downhole equipment or to and from downhole equipment.

Where data is transmitted via a power cable from a remote location to a base or other local location the data transmission process may be part of a remote monitoring process. For example where a downhole electric motor is supplied with 3 phase power via a power cable a downhole sensor may tap into a wye point of the electric motor to transmit data via the power cable. A remote monitoring process may for example monitor various parameters associated with downhole equipment operation physical phenomena etc. Such monitoring may facilitate operation of downhole equipment or other equipment e.g. by an operator a controller etc. . For example as to a downhole ESP remote monitoring may provide for knowledge of actual values of well parameters related to surrounding reservoir or well bore fluids. A link to communicate monitored data from downhole to uphole may economically be implemented using the same power cable that delivers the electrical power to one or more motors of the ESP e.g. noting that such a link may be used in a reverse manner to transmit data e.g. control instructions etc. to downhole equipment e.g. an ESP a sensor etc. .

As mentioned a power cable may be subject to a fault such as a ground fault. Depending on the nature of the fault as an example a fault may be classified as an uphole fault or a downhole fault. Further a fault may stem from equipment and not a power cable itself. As to a ground fault it is a type of fault that occurs when one or more conductors are inadvertently grounded e.g. temporarily or permenantly . For a power cable erosion of insulation about a conductor may give rise to a ground fault. For equipment to which a power cable is electrically connected mechanical damage to the equipment may cause a conductor or a conductive component to become inadvertently grounded e.g. temporarily or permanently .

As to issues associated with ESP operations a power supply may experience unbalanced phases voltage spikes presence of harmonics lightning strikes etc. which may for example increase temperature of an ESP motor a power cable etc. a motor controller may experience issues when subjected to extreme conditions e.g. high low temperatures high level of moisture etc. an ESP motor may experience a short circuit due to debris in its lubricating oil water breakthrough to its lubricating oil noise from a transformer which results in wear e.g. insulation etc. which may lead to lubricating oil contamination and a power cable may experience a issues e.g. short circuit or other due to electric discharge in insulation surrounding one or more conductors e.g. more probable at higher voltages poor manufacturing quality e.g. of insulation armor etc. water breakthrough noise from a transformer direct physical damage e.g. crushing cutting etc. during running or pulling operations chemical damage e.g. corrosion deterioration due to high temperature current above a design limit resulting in temperature increase electrical stresses etc.

As an example where an ESP 3 phase power cable develops a fault e.g. temporarily or permanently in the form of a current leakage path to ground on one of the power conductors current carried by that conductor is conducted to ground through that path. In such a scenario some current carried over the other conductors of the power cable may be conducted to ground via the current leakage path as well for example by flowing through the motor windings and into the conductor associated with the current leakage path. However as impedance of the motor windings is non zero e.g. of the order of hundreds of ohms or more current that flows through the motor windings to the conductor associated with the current leakage path may be limited.

When a 3 phase power circuit for a motor experiences a ground or phase fault as an example a wye point may carry an AC voltage that may be a large fraction of the motor supply voltage. For example assuming a 3 normal phase unbalance a wye point of an ESP motor may be about 45 VAC for a 1.5 kV motor and 120 VAC for a 4 kV motor. At 70 Hz a nominal 500 H choke has about 250 kohms impedance rising to about 1 mohm at 30 Hz e.g. a choke with high frequency bypass capacitors . Assuming a 250 ohm resistive or inductive connection to ground via a unit electrically connected to the wye point of the ESP motor that unit may see a nominal voltage of about 100 VDC and almost no AC component e.g. 0 VAC . The foregoing example demonstrates how the aforementioned choke may provide for a DC power signal via a tap to a wye point of an ESP motor where some normal phase unbalance exists. However where a ground or phase fault condition exists the wye point may rise to a large fraction e.g. about 70 of the phase voltage. For example in a worst case scenario the wye point may carry several kilovolts RMS e.g. at about 30 Hz for a 4 kV motor. In such an example the unit electrically connected to the wye point of the ESP motor may see about 0 VDC assuming the supply is effectively short circuited e.g. and a couple of volts RMS after the choke . The actual level experienced by a unit electrically connected to a wye point of a motor may depend upon the nature of the condition or conditions. Accordingly a ground fault e.g. or phase fault or phase to ground fault may impact the nature of a signal or signals carried at a wye point of a motor. Such a fault may be temporary or permanent. For example depending on cause s a ground fault may dispate and later reappear or exhibit other transient behavior. During periods where a ground fault does not exist as an example circuitry may respond automatically to switch from one operational mode to another with respect to powering one or more sensors associated circuitry etc. For example a circuit may determine quality of a DC power signal supplied via uphole equipment via a downhole power cable e.g. based on one or more characteristics of the DC power signal . Such a circuit may optionally be selected or programmable based on a sensor telemetry circuitry etc. For example such a circuit may be triggered by a sensor entering an acquisition mode a telemetry circuity entering a communication mode etc.

As an example a circuit may be configured to determine that even though a ground fault issue exists some form of DC power signal remains and that equipment to be powered by DC power can use the remaining DC power for example with some amount of supplementation e.g. via an AC to DC conversion . Where supplementation of a provided DC power signal occurs using an AC power signal or signals one ground fault state may be deemed a mixed DC AC state e.g. equipment powered via a mix of DC and DC derived from AC whereas for example where the DC power signal is unsuitable another ground fault state may be deemed an AC state e.g. equipment powered via DC derived from AC . As an example where a ground fault does not exist e.g. unfaulted or non ground fault state a state may be deemed a DC state e.g. equipment powered via DC supplied from an uphole power source via a power cable .

As an example circuitry may be provided for use downhole that electrically connects to a wye point of an electric motor where the circuitry may derive power to power a unit or units via one or more AC power signals carried by the wye point even in the presence of a ground fault or faults. Such circuitry may also provide for telemetry e.g. via a transformer a capacitor a transformer and a capacitor etc. . Further such circuitry may provide for reliable telemetry even where an environment is considered noisy.

To understand better how downhole equipment fits into an overall strategy some examples of processes are described below as applied to basins and for example production from one or more reservoirs in a basin.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators ESPs etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment e.g. an ESP which may include equipment to acquire information e.g. one or more sensors etc. to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As to the management components of these may include a seismic data component an information component a pre simulation processing component a simulation component an attribute component a post simulation processing component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component optionally with pre simulation processing via the processing component and optionally with post simulation processing via the processing component .

According to an embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may be earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities may include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may be based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

According to an embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may be based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may be a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition to the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . According to an embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component . Further dotted lines indicate possible feedback within the management components . For example feedback may occur between the analysis visualization component and either one of the processing components and .

According to an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

According to an example embodiment the management components may include features for geology and geological modeling to generate high resolution geological models of reservoir structure and stratigraphy e.g. classification and estimation facies modeling well correlation surface imaging structural and fault analysis well path design data analysis fracture modeling workflow editing uncertainty and optimization modeling petrophysical modeling etc. . As to reservoir engineering for a generated model one or more features may allow for simulation workflow to perform streamline simulation reduce uncertainty and assist in future well planning e.g. uncertainty analysis and optimization workflow well path design advanced gridding and upscaling history match analysis etc. . The management components may include features for drilling workflows including well path design drilling visualization and real time model updates e.g. via real time data links .

According to an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may be add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. According to an embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for all application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

As an example the PETREL framework may integrate multidisciplinary workflows surrounding ECLIPSE simulation modules for example to provide transparent data flows and an intuitive graphical user interface. Modules may include the ECLIPSE blackoil simulation module for three phase 3D reservoir simulation with well controls field operations planning and enhanced oil recovery EOR schemes the ECLIPSE compositional simulation module for reservoir fluid phase behavior and compositional changes when modeling multicomponent hydrocarbon flow the ECLIPSE FrontSim simulation module for modeling multiphase fluid flow along streamlines supporting both geological model screening and pattern flood management the ECLIPSE thermal simulation module for support of a wide range of thermal recovery processes including steam assisted gravity drainage cyclic steam operations toe to heel air injection and cold heavy oil production with sand and one or more other modules such as a coalbed methane module an advanced well module etc. As described herein an ESP controller may optionally provide for access to one or more frameworks e.g. PETREL ECLIPSE PIPESIM etc. for example for purposes of data exchange control etc.

In the example of as indicated the management components may receive information see e.g. the feedback from the geologic environment . As an example the downhole equipment may include an ESP outfitted with one or more sensors that transmit data as for example the other information . In turn one or more of the management components may process the data to provide instructions to the geologic environment for example to adjust one or more operational parameters that may impact operation of the downhole equipment e.g. an ESP . As shown in transmission of information may occur via one or more networks. Further information from other geologic environments other downhole equipment etc. may be transmitted to one or more of the management components .

In the example of the equipment may be steam assisted gravity drainage SAGD equipment for injecting steam and extracting resources from a reservoir . For example a SAGD operation can include a steam injection well and a resource production well . In the example of a downhole steam generator generates steam in the injection well for example based on supplies of water and fuel from surface conduits and artificial lift equipment e.g. ESP etc. may be implemented to facilitate resource production. While a downhole steam generator is shown steam may be alternatively or additionally generated at the surface level. As illustrated in a cross sectional view the steam rises in the subterranean portion. As the steam rises it transfers heat to a desirable resource such as heavy oil. As the resource is heated its viscosity decreases allowing it to flow more readily to the resource production well .

As illustrated in the example of SAGD is a technique that involves subterranean delivery of steam to enhance flow of heavy oil bitumen etc. SAGD can be applied for Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR which is also known as tertiary recovery because it changes properties of oil in situ.

With respect to extraction SAGD may result in condensed steam from an upper well may accompany oil to a lower well which can impact artificial lift e.g. ESP operations and increase demands on separation processing where it is desirable to separate one or more components from the oil and water mixture.

As to the downhole steam generator it may be fed by three separate streams of natural gas air and water where a gas air mixture is combined first to create a flame and then the water is injected downstream to create steam. In such an example the water can also serve to cool a burner wall or walls e.g. by flowing in a passageway or passageways within a wall .

The example of demonstrates how operation of a steam generator or more generally steam injection may impact operation of downhole equipment such as an ESP. Referring to the example of the management components may receive information see e.g. the feedback from the geologic environment similarly the management components may apply to the geologic environment of for example where the equipment the equipment or both may transmit data as for example the other information . In turn one or more of the management components may process the data to provide instructions to the environment for example to adjust one or more operational parameters that may impact operation of the equipment the equipment e.g. an ESP or other equipment. As shown in transmission of information may occur via one or more networks. Further information from other geologic environments other downhole equipment etc. may be transmitted to one or more of the management components .

The well includes a wellhead that can include a choke e.g. a choke valve . For example the well can include a choke valve to control various operations such as to reduce pressure of a fluid from high pressure in a closed wellbore to atmospheric pressure. A wellhead may include one or more sensors such as a temperature sensor a pressure sensor a solids sensor etc.

The ESP includes one or more cables a pump gas handling features a pump intake a motor and one or more sensors e.g. temperature pressure current leakage vibration etc. . The well may include one or more well sensors for example such as the commercially available OpticLine sensors or WellWatcher BriteBlue sensors marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which are fiber optic based and can provide for real time sensing of temperature for example in SAGD or other operations. As shown in the example of a well can include a relatively horizontal portion. Such a portion may collect heated heavy oil responsive to steam injection. Measurements of temperature along the length of the well can provide for feedback for example to understand conditions downhole of an ESP. Well sensors may extend thousands of feet into a well e.g. 4 000 feet or more and beyond a position of an ESP.

The controller can include one or more interfaces for example for receipt transmission or receipt and transmission of information with the motor controller a VSD unit the power supply e.g. a gas fueled turbine generator a power company etc. the network equipment in the well equipment in another well etc.

As shown in the controller can include or provide access to one or more modules or frameworks. Further the controller may include features of an ESP motor controller and optionally supplant the ESP motor controller . For example the controller may include the UniConn motor controller marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In the example of the controller may access one or more of the PIPESIM framework the ECLIPSE framework and the PETREL framework .

In the example of the motor controller may be a commercially available motor controller such as the UniConn motor controller. The UniConn motor controller can connect to a SCADA system the espWatcher surveillance system etc. The UniConn motor controller can perform some control and data acquisition tasks for ESPs surface pumps or other monitored wells. The UniConn motor controller can interface with the Phoenix monitoring system for example to access pressure temperature and vibration data and various protection parameters as well as to provide direct current power to downhole sensors. The UniConn motor controller can interface with fixed speed drive FSD controllers or a VSD unit for example such as the VSD unit .

For FSD controllers the UniConn motor controller may monitor ESP system 3 phase currents 3 phase surface voltage supply voltage and frequency ESP spinning frequency and leg ground power factor and motor load.

For VSD units the UniConn motor controller may monitor VSD output current ESP running current VSD output voltage supply voltage VSD input and VSD output power VSD output frequency drive loading motor load 3 phase ESP running current 3 phase VSD input or output voltage ESP spinning frequency and leg ground.

The UniConn motor controller can include control functionality for VSD units such as target speed minimum and maximum speed and base speed voltage divided by frequency three jump frequencies and bandwidths volts per hertz pattern and start up boost ability to start an ESP while the motor is spinning acceleration and deceleration rates including start to minimum speed and minimum to target speed to maintain constant pressure load e.g. from 0.01 Hz 10 000 s to 1 Hz s stop mode with PWM carrier frequency base speed voltage selection rocking start frequency cycle and pattern control stall protection with automatic speed reduction changing motor rotation direction without stopping speed force speed follower mode frequency control to maintain constant speed pressure or load current unbalance voltage unbalance overvoltage and undervoltage ESP backspin and leg ground.

In the example of the ESP motor controller includes various modules to handle for example backspin of an ESP sanding of an ESP flux of an ESP and gas lock of an ESP. As mentioned the motor controller may include any of a variety of features additionally alternatively etc.

In the example of the VSD unit may be a low voltage drive VSD unit a medium voltage drive MVD unit or other type of unit. For a LVD a VSD unit can include a step up transformer control circuitry and a step up transformer while for a MVD a VSD unit can include an integrated transformer and control circuitry. As an example the VSD unit may receive power with a voltage of about 4.16 kV and control a motor as a load with a voltage from about 0 V to about 4.16 kV.

The VSD unit may include commercially available control circuitry such as the SpeedStar MVD control circuitry marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry includes a visible fused disconnect switch precharge circuitry and sine wave output filter e.g. integral sine wave filter ISWF tailored for control and protection of high horsepower ESPs. The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry can include a plug and play sine wave output filter a multilevel PWM inverter output a 0.95 power factor programmable load reduction e.g. soft stall function speed control circuitry to maintain constant load or pressure rocking start e.g. for stuck pumps resulting from scale sand etc. a utility power receptacle an acquisition system for the Phoenix monitoring system a site communication box to support surveillance and control service a speed control potentiometer. The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry can optionally interface with the UniConn motor controller which may provide some of the foregoing functionality.

In the example of the VSD unit is shown along with a plot of a sine wave e.g. achieved via a sine wave filter that includes a capacitor and a reactor responsiveness to vibration responsiveness to temperature and as being managed to reduce mean time between failures MTBFs . The VSD unit may be rated with an ESP to provide for about 40 000 hours 5 years of operation at a temperature of about 50 C with about a 100 load. The VSD unit may include surge and lightening protection e.g. one protection circuit per phase . With respect to operational cost as an example for a 373 kW load an increase in efficiency of about 0.5 may translate into about 1 000 per year in power savings e.g. depending on cost of power . As to leg ground monitoring water intrusion monitoring etc. such types of monitoring may indicate whether corrosion is or has occurred. Further monitoring of power quality from a supply to a motor at a motor may occur by one or more circuits or features of a controller.

As an example a VSD unit may be provided that operates at a standard input voltage or voltages e.g. that range from about 380 V to about 4.16 kV or more . For a SpeedStar 2000 Plus VSD unit Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. or SineWave Drive SWD unit Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. rated to operate at 480 V if a VSD unit is rated for 1000 kVA this means that the unit will output 1000 kVA at 480 V. Such a relationship may be applicable for various VSD units for example as a VSD unit may have an upper and lower limit for the input voltage that it can operate.

As an example a VSD unit may change its base speed commonly known as the output Volts Hz ratio when running an ESP motor. The base speed of a VSD unit is described as the point at which the VSD unit reaches it maximum output voltage at a specified frequency. As an example a motor can be optimized by adjusting the voltage delivered to a motor according to load.

Overall system efficiency can affect power supply from the utility or generator. As described herein monitoring of ITHD VTHD PF and overall efficiency may occur e.g. surface measurements . Such surface measurements may be analyzed in separately or optionally in conjunction with a pump curve. VSD unit related surface readings e.g. at an input to a VSD unit can optionally be input to an economics model. For example the higher the PF and therefore efficiency e.g. by running an ESP at a higher frequency and at close to 100 load the less harmonics current lower ITHD sensed by the power supply. In such an example well operations may experience less loses and thereby lower energy costs for the same load.

While the example of shows an ESP with centrifugal pump stages another type of ESP may be controlled. For example an ESP may include a hydraulic diaphragm electric submersible pump HDESP which is a positive displacement double acting diaphragm pump with a downhole motor. HDESPs find use in low liquid rate coalbed methane and other oil and gas shallow wells that require artificial lift to remove water from the wellbore.

As shown the power cable connects to a motor block which may be a motor or motors of an ESP and be controllable via the VSD step up transformer block . In the example of the conductors of the power cable electrically connect at a wye point . The circuitry block may derive power via the wye point and may optionally transmit receive or transmit and receive data via the wye point . As shown the circuitry block may be grounded.

The system can operate in a normal state State N and in at least one ground fault state e.g. State GF or State GF . One or more ground faults may occur for any of a variety of reasons. For example wear of the power cable may cause a ground fault for one or more of its conductors. As another example wear of one of the MLEs of the power cable e.g. mechanical chemical thermal etc. may cause a ground fault.

The system may include provisions to continue operation of a motor of the motor block when a ground fault occurs. However when a ground fault does occur power at the wye point may be altered. In the example of the circuitry block can operate to supply power to the sensor block in State N e.g. normal DC and at least one of State GF e.g. ground fault mixed DC AC and State GF e.g. ground fault AC . Further the circuitry block may provide for telemetry in State N and at least one of State GF and State GF. For example a system can include circuitry to determine one or more power signal characteristics at a wye point of an electric motor of an electric submersible pump and circuitry responsive to the determined one or more power signal characteristics to automatically provide DC power from the wye point or to automatically derive DC from AC power from the wye point. In such a system the circuitry responsive to detection of a ground fault may also include circuitry to automatically provide DC power from the wye point and to automatically derive DC from AC power from the wye point. As an example a system may be a state machine capable of automatically entering a state based on one or more power signal characteristics of a power signal or signals available at a wye point of an electric motor. In such an example states may include a DC pass through state see e.g. State N a DC pass through and AC to DC conversion state see e.g. State GF and an AC to DC conversion state see e.g. State GF .

As an example the circuitry may provide for assessing quality of power for supply of DC power to one or more pieces of equipment. Such circuitry may assess quality for example based on one or more characteristics of power available at the wye point of the motor at the motor at the power cable etc. As an example such circuitry may change state issue a signal alter a switch etc. for example where supply of DC power is deemed unsuitable for a particular purpose or purposes.

As an example power cables and MLEs that can resist damaging forces whether mechanical electrical or chemical may help ensure proper operation of a motor circuitry sensors etc. noting that a faulty power cable or MLE can potentially damage a motor circuitry sensors etc. Further as mentioned an ESP may be located several kilometers into a wellbore. Accordingly time and cost to replace a faulty ESP power cable MLE etc. can be substantial e.g. time to withdraw downtime for fluid pumping time to insert etc. .

Commercially available power cables include the REDAMAX Hotline ESP power cables e.g. as well as motor lead extensions MLEs which are marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . As an example a REDAMAX Hotline ESP power cable can include combinations of polyimide tape lead EPDM and PEEK to provide insulation and a jacket. Lead walls can provide for compatibility with high gas oil ratio GOR and highly corrosive conditions. Armor can mechanically protect the cable and may be galvanized steel heavy galvanized steel stainless steel or Monel alloy. The pothead is an electrical connector between a cable and an ESP motor that may be constructed with metal to metal seals. A pothead can provide a mechanical barrier to fluid entry in high temperature applications.

As an example of a REDAMAX Hotline ESP power cable a 5 kV round ELBE G5R can include solid conductor sizes of 1 AWG 1 2 AWG 1 and 4 AWG 1. As another example a 5 kV flat EHLTB G5F can include a solid conductor size of 4 AWG 1. Dimensions may be for round configurations about 1 to 2 inches in diameter and for flat configurations about half an inch by about 1 to 2 inches. Weights may range from about 1 lbm ft to about 3 lbm ft.

As indicated the circuitry may operate in State N State GF or State GF for example with respect to the wye point. In the example of for State N a primary winding W of the transformer acts to reduce detrimental impact of normal wye point unbalance and allows a DC power signal to proceed to the DC DC converter . The DC DC converter can convert the DC power signal and provide one or more converted DC power signals to the telemetry driver the controller and the one or more sensors .

In the example of for State GF or State GF where abnormal unbalance exists at the wye point e.g. due to a ground fault the primary winding W of the transformer acts to reduce detrimental impact of the abnormal wye point unbalance and further cooperates with the secondary winding W to allow the rectifier to derive a suitable DC power signal. As shown a positive DC tap point of the rectifier is electrically connected to the DC DC converter . In such a manner when a ground fault exists unbalance voltage of alternating current at the wye point can be stepped down via the transformer and then rectified via the rectifier to supply a suitable DC power signal to the DC DC converter which may supply one or more DC power signals to the telemetry driver the controller and the one or more sensors . As an alternative the rectifier e.g. optionally with associated circuitry may provide a DC power signal or signals suitable for powering the telemetry driver the controller or the one or more sensors e.g. without reliance on the DC DC converter .

As to telemetry the telemetry driver includes an electrical connection to the wye point. Sensed information e.g. data from the one or more sensors may be acquired by the controller and encoded using encoding circuitry. The encoded information may be provided to the telemetry driver where modulation circuitry provides for signal modulation to carry the encoded information for transmission via the wye point of an electric motor. As an example the telemetry driver may alternatively or additionally receive information from the wye point. Where such information is modulated encoded or modulated and encoded the circuitry may provide for demodulation decoding or demodulation and decoding.

As to the telemetry driver as an example it may transmit information to a wye point of an electric motor at one or more frequencies e.g. approximately 10 kHz to approximately 15 kHz higher than a power supply frequency of power supplied to drive the electric motor e.g. less than approximately 100 Hz . As an example transmitted data signals may be modulated using multichannel frequency shift keying FSK orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM or phase shift keying PSK .

As indicated the circuitry may operate in State N State GF or State GF for example with respect to the wye point. For State N a primary winding W of the transformer and a data transmission winding W of the transformer act to reduce detrimental impact of normal wye point unbalance and allows a DC power signal to proceed to the DC DC converter . The DC DC converter can convert the DC power signal and provide one or more converted DC power signals to the telemetry driver the controller and the one or more sensors .

For State GF or State GF where abnormal unbalance exists at the wye point e.g. due to a ground fault the primary winding W of the transformer and the data transmission winding W of the transformer act to reduce detrimental impact of the abnormal wye point unbalance and the primary winding W of the transformer further cooperates with a secondary winding W of the transformer to allow the rectifier to derive a suitable DC power signal. As shown a positive DC tap point of the rectifier is electrically connected to the DC DC converter . In such a manner when a ground fault exists unbalance voltage of alternating current at the wye point can be stepped down via the transformer and then rectified via the rectifier to supply a suitable DC power signal to the DC DC converter which may supply one or more DC power signals to the telemetry driver the controller and the one or more sensors . As an alternative the rectifier e.g. optionally with associated circuitry may provide a DC power signal or signals suitable for powering the telemetry driver the controller or the one or more sensors e.g. without reliance on the DC DC converter .

As to telemetry the telemetry driver includes an electrical connection to another data transmission winding W of the transformer . In the example of the windings W W of the transformer provide for uni directional or bi directional transmission of data noting that the winding W is electrically connected to the wye point. Sensed information e.g. data from the one or more sensors may be acquired by the controller and encoded using encoding circuitry. The encoded information may be provided to the telemetry driver where modulation circuitry provides for signal modulation to carry the encoded information for transmission to the transformer and to the wye point of an electric motor. As an example the telemetry driver may alternatively or additionally receive information from the wye point via the transformer . Where such information is modulated encoded or modulated and encoded the circuitry may provide for demodulation decoding or demodulation and decoding.

As to the telemetry driver as an example it may transmit information to the transformer and subsequently to a wye point of an electric motor at one or more frequencies e.g. approximately 10 kHz to approximately 15 kHz higher than a power supply frequency of power supplied to drive the electric motor e.g. less than approximately 100 Hz . As an example transmitted data signals may be modulated using multichannel frequency shift keying FSK orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM or phase shift keying PSK .

As an example one or more sensors may each provide for converting a physical parameter to an electrical signal. Such an electrical signal may be converted to an electrical digital representation e.g. via an analog to digital converter . As an example an acquisition device e.g. a microcontroller a digital signal processor etc. may provide for sampling a digital output or outputs of one or more sensors for example according to a defined sequence. As an example an encoder may provide for encoding sampled digital information in such a way that the information could be recovered even in the case of alteration during its transmission e.g. to provide for robust information integrity . As an example a telemetry driver may provide for modulation for example by varying a given parameter of an electrical carrier signal according to received encoded information from an encoder. As an example a telemetry line driver may provide for amplifying a modulator output signal to a given voltage current power to be applied to a wye point e.g. multiple phase wires through a coupling circuit.

As mentioned a coupling circuit may optionally include multiple windings. For example a coupling circuit may be made up of passive components e.g. first and secondary windings of downhole transformer and a capacitor . As an example two transformers in series may be connected to a wye point of downhole motor where one of the transformers provides for data transmission.

As an example a transformer may be directly electrically connected to a wye point of a motor and have a high primary inductance to reduce conduction of unbalance voltage at the wye point especially where a phase fault condition exists. At the same time the transformer may allow for conduction of DC voltage to power one or more sensors etc. For example where DC voltage is provided via a power cable for the motor it may be available at the wye point. In the foregoing example the transformer can reduce alternating current while still providing DC voltage.

As an example a circuit may include a capacitor parallel to a primary winding of a transformer to bypass high frequency telemetry signals that may be coupled via another transformer e.g. or winding . As mentioned a secondary winding of a transformer may be provided to extract power from an unbalanced wye point for example for purposes of providing power to one or more sensors etc. e.g. where a wye point provides a sufficient supply of AC power . As an example AC power available at a wye point may be so called secondary AC power injected into a power cable for a motor or may be AC power stemming from phase unbalance at the wye point. As mentioned where a fault occurs phase unbalance can cause a wye point to carry alternating current at a voltage level that is a large fraction of a motor supply voltage level.

As indicated the circuitry may operate in State N State GF or State GF for example with respect to the wye point. For State N a winding W of the double transformer acts to reduce detrimental impact of normal wye point unbalance and allows a DC power signal to proceed to the DC DC converter . The DC DC converter can convert the DC power signal and provide one or more converted DC power signals to the telemetry driver the controller and the one or more sensors .

In the example of for State GF or State GF where abnormal unbalance exists at the wye point e.g. due to a ground fault the winding W of the double transformer acts to reduce detrimental impact of the abnormal wye point unbalance and the winding W of the transformer further cooperates with a first secondary winding W of the transformer to allow the rectifier to derive a suitable DC power signal. As shown a positive DC tap point of the rectifier is electrically connected to the DC DC converter . In such a manner when a ground fault exists unbalance voltage of alternating current at the wye point can be stepped down via the windings W W of the double transformer and then rectified via the rectifier to supply a suitable DC power signal to the DC DC converter which may supply one or more DC power signals to the telemetry driver the controller and the one or more sensors . As an alternative the rectifier e.g. optionally with associated circuitry may provide a DC power signal or signals suitable for powering the telemetry driver the controller or the one or more sensors e.g. without reliance on the DC DC converter .

As to telemetry the telemetry driver includes an electrical connection to a second secondary winding W of the double transformer . In the example of the windings W W of the transformer provide for uni directional or bi directional transmission of data noting that the winding W is electrically connected to the wye point. Sensed information e.g. data from the one or more sensors may be acquired by the controller and encoded using encoding circuitry. The encoded information may be provided to the telemetry driver where modulation circuitry provides for signal modulation to carry the encoded information for transmission to the transformer e.g. via winding W and to the wye point of an electric motor. As an example the telemetry driver may alternatively or additionally receive information from the wye point via the transformer e.g. via winding W to W . Where such information is modulated encoded or modulated and encoded the circuitry may provide for demodulation decoding or demodulation and decoding.

As to the telemetry driver as an example it may transmit information to the transformer and subsequently to a wye point of an electric motor at one or more frequencies e.g. approximately 10 kHz to approximately 15 kHz higher than a power supply frequency of power supplied to drive the electric motor e.g. less than approximately 100 Hz . As an example transmitted data signals may be modulated using multichannel frequency shift keying FSK orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM or phase shift keying PSK .

In the example of data transmitted via the wye point of the motor may be carried by the power cable . To provide for redundancy as an example the choke includes electrical connections to each of the conductors for the 3 phase power. Such redundancy can allow the choke to receive modulated data signals provided to the wye point for example regardless of the state of each of the individual conductors that electrically connect to the wye point e.g. assuming at least one non faulted conductor . In the example of the wye point may receive modulated data signals via circuitry such as for example the circuitry the circuitry or the circuitry see also e.g. the circuitry of .

As shown the choke includes an electrical connection to the communication circuitry . The communication circuitry may receive modulated signals from the choke and provide for conversion of such signals from analog to digital provide for demodulation of such signals provide for decoding of such signals or any combination thereof. The communication circuitry may include data handling circuitry for example to further process data derived from signals transmitted via the choke . Such further processing may include formatting analyzing etc. As to formatting the data handling circuitry may provide for formatting data according to one or more data transmission protocols e.g. Internet proprietary etc. .

As an example the communication circuitry may include circuitry for digital signal processing DSP . As an example the communication circuitry may provide for handling signals modulated using multichannel frequency shift keying FSK orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM or phase shift keying PSK . For example the communication circuitry may include circuitry for demodulating signals modulating using one or more of FSK OFDM PSK etc.

As an example the communication circuitry or other circuitry may provide for sampling each phase line of a 3 phase power cable individually for purposes of extracting data. For example the choke may include a multiplexer controllable by the communication circuitry to allow the communication circuitry to select individual lines or optionally combinations of any two lines. In such a manner if a ground fault does occur the communication circuitry may provide for selecting the best individual line or combination of lines in an effort to improve performance e.g. demodulation decoding etc. .

As an example downhole equipment may provide for transmission of a test signal which may optionally be modulated encoded etc. In such an example the communication circuitry may control a multiplexer to test the quality of the test signal on each of line of a 3 phase power cable or combinations of lines of a 3 phase power cable e.g. where the test signal or information carried therein is known . Based on the quality e.g. per one or more quality control metrics the communication circuitry may control the multiplexer to receive signals via one or more lines of the 3 phase power cable. As an example such a test may optionally provide information germane as to power quality transmission quality etc. for providing DC power to one or more pieces of downhole equipment e.g. one or more sensors etc. . As an example such information may provide for determinations as to state see e.g. State N State GF and State GF of and .

In the example of data transmission from uphole to downhole a power signal is provided via a power cable to power downhole equipment and a data signal is combined with a carrier signal to provide a modulated signal . The modulated signal is provided to the power cable. At a downhole location the modulated signal is extracted from the power cable and demodulated to provide the data signal . Depending on the condition of the power cable and equipment connected thereto as well as environmental conditions the quality of the data signal at the downhole location may be somewhat degraded. A modulation technique may provide for maintaining integrity of the data signal when transmission is subject to such conditions. Further encoding may be implemented to further maintain data integrity when transmission is subject to such conditions.

In the examples of downhole equipment and uphole equipment may include circuitry for modulation and demodulation as well as circuitry for encoding and decoding. Accordingly depending on uphole and downhole circuitry data transmission may occur uni directionally or bi directionally.

As an example a system can include a transformer and a rectifier to derive DC power from AC power at a wye point of an electric motor a sensor that includes a sensor signal output to output a sensor signal a telemetry driver that includes a DC power input to receive the derived DC power and an input to receive the sensor signal and an output to output a data signal representing the sensor signal e.g. based at least in part on the derived DC power and circuitry to deliver the data signal representing the sensor signal to the wye point of the electric motor.

As an example a system may include a controller that includes acquisition circuitry to acquire a sensor signal from a sensor signal output where input of a telemetry driver receives the sensor signal from the controller. In such an example the controller may include encoding circuitry to encode the sensor signal where the sensor signal received by the telemetry driver includes an encoded sensor signal.

As an example a system can include a telemetry driver that includes carrier signal circuitry to generate a carrier signal for example where the carrier signal circuitry includes circuitry to generate a carrier signal that has a frequency greater than about 10 kHz e.g. where an electric motor operates using 3 phase AC power that has a frequency less than about 100 Hz .

As an example a system can include circuitry to deliver a data signal representing a sensor signal to a wye point of an electric motor via a transformer a capacitor or via a transformer and a capacitor. Such a capacitor may be a capacitor disposed between the telemetry driver and the wye point.

As an example a system can include a DC DC converter electrically connected to a wye point of an electric motor. As an example a DC DC converter may be electrically connected to a rectifier e.g. that rectifies AC to DC .

As an example a system may include two or more transformers where for example circuitry to deliver a data signal representing a sensor signal to a wye point of an electric motor includes a winding of one of the transformer. As an example a system may include a double transformer for example where circuitry to deliver a data signal representing a sensor signal to a wye point of an electric motor includes a winding of the double transformer.

As to a power cable a system may include a power cable with three conductors for example electrically connected or connectable to an electric motor and thereby to a wye point of the electric motor. As an example one or two of the conductors may include a current leakage path to ground. As an example a power cable may include insulation damage that creates a current leakage path for one or two of the conductors.

As an example a system can include an electric submersible pump that includes an electric motor having a wye point a power cable that includes three conductors each of the three conductors electrically connected to the electric motor a telemetry driver powered by DC power that includes at least one electrical connection to the power cable a sensor and a transformer that includes two opposing windings where one of the windings passes DC power from the wye point to power the telemetry driver and the other one of the windings steps down AC power from the wye point for conversion to DC power to power the telemetry driver. Such a system may also include a DC DC converter to receive DC power passed by the one of the windings and to receive DC power converted from the stepped down AC power. As an example a telemetry driver that includes at least one electrical connection to a power cable can include an electrical connection established by a transformer e.g. winding to winding connection .

As an example a method can include receiving an AC power signal at a wye point of an electric motor deriving DC power from the AC power signal using a transformer and a rectifier powering circuitry using the derived DC power and applying a data signal to the wye point using the circuitry. In such a method powering the circuitry can include powering one or more sensors and powering a telemetry driver where powering the one or more sensors includes outputting a sensor signal and where powering a telemetry driver includes generating the data signal based at least in part on the sensor signal. As an example applying a data signal to the wye point can include transmitting the data signal from one winding of a transformer to another winding of the transformer. As an example such a transformer may be double transformer or another transformer.

Methods described herein may include associated computer readable media CRM blocks. Such blocks can include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. As an example a computer readable medium may be a computer readable storage medium such as for example a memory storage device.

According to an embodiment one or more computer readable storage media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to output information for controlling a process. For example such instructions may provide for output to sensing process an injection process drilling process an extraction process etc.

According to an embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although only a few examples have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the examples. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

