---

title: Ionic-liquid nanoscale ionic material (IL-NIM) compositions, methods and applications
abstract: A method for preparing an ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material, the ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material and a battery that includes a battery electrolyte that comprises the ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material each provide superior performance. The superior performance may be manifested within the context of inhibited lithium dendrite formation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09397366&OS=09397366&RS=09397366
owner: CORNELL UNIVERSITY
number: 09397366
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120710
---
This application is related to and derives priority from 1 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 226 filed 11 Jul. 2011 and titled Ionic Liquid Tethered Nanoparticle Hybrid Electrolytes and 2 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 657 252 filed 8 Jun. 2012 and also titled Ionic liquid Tethered Nanoparticle Hybrid Electrolytes the content of both of which applications is incorporated herein fully by reference.

The research that lead to the embodiments as disclosed herein and the invention as claimed herein was funded by the United States National Science Foundation under grant number DMR 0079992. The United States Government has rights in the invention claimed herein.

Embodiments relate generally to ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material IL NIM compositions. More particularly embodiments relate to ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material electrolyte compositions.

Secondary batteries containing lithium Li metal as an anode are attractive since they provide one of the highest known energy densities for electrical energy storage. Unfortunately however most currently used electrolytes are unsuitable for use with a lithium metal anode because they are unstable at typical cell potentials. Moreover such electrolytes also do not mitigate lithium dendrite growth during repeated battery charge and discharge cycles. Such lithium dendrite growth is undesirable within lithium secondary batteries since such lithium dendrite growth may lead to shorting within a secondary lithium battery.

Given the significance of lithium batteries in various applications desirable are electrolytes for lithium batteries that are stable provide superior performance and mitigate lithium dendrite growth.

Embodiments include 1 a method for preparing an ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material IL NIM 2 an IL NIM 3 a battery electrolyte composition that includes an IL NIM and 4 a battery that includes the battery electrolyte composition that includes the IL NIM.

The method for preparing the IL NIM includes forming a metal oxide nanoparticle in situ in solution via reaction of a metal oxide precursor material and subsequently reacting in situ in solution the metal oxide nanoparticle with an ionic liquid functional coupling agent to prepare the IL NIM absent cross linking i.e. the ionic liquid is bonded and tethered to a single metal oxide nanoparticle . This particular process sequence avoids agglomeration of the metal oxide nanoparticle when preparing the ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material in accordance with the embodiments.

The IL NIM includes an ionic liquid that includes at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety and also a counter anion where the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety is tethered to a single nanoparticle.

The battery electrolyte includes an IL NIM that includes at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety and also a counter anion where the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety is tethered to at least one nanoparticle. The battery electrolyte also includes a lithium salt. The lithium salt may include the same counter anion as the IL NIM but such is not a requirement of the embodiments.

The battery electrolyte composition in accordance with the embodiments provides superior performance of a battery which utilizes the battery electrolyte composition insofar as the battery electrolyte composition in accordance with the embodiments may mitigate lithium dendrite growth.

A particular method for preparing a material composition in accordance with the embodiments includes preparing in situ in solution a plurality of metal oxide nanoparticles by reaction of a metal oxide precursor material. This particular method also includes reacting in situ in solution the plurality of metal oxide nanoparticles with an ionic liquid functionalized coupling agent material to provide a nanoparticle tethered ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material absent cross linking.

A particular material composition in accordance with the embodiments includes a plurality of nanoparticles. The particular material composition also includes a plurality of ionic liquid molecules each comprising 1 at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety and 2 a counter anion each nitrogen cation moiety phosphorus cation moiety or sulfur cation moiety being tethered to a single nanoparticle.

Another particular material composition in accordance with the embodiments includes a plurality of nanoparticles. This other particular material composition also includes a plurality of ionic liquid molecules each comprising 1 at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety and 2 a counter anion each nitrogen cation moiety phosphorus cation moiety or sulfur cation moiety being tethered to at least one nanoparticle. This other particular material composition also includes a lithium salt.

A particular battery in accordance with the embodiments includes an electrolyte comprising a material composition comprising 1 a plurality of nanoparticles and 2 a plurality of ionic liquid molecules each comprising a at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety and b a counter anion each nitrogen cation moiety phosphorus cation moiety or sulfur cation moiety being tethered to at least one nanoparticle.

The embodiments provide a method for preparing an IL NIM that may be used in a battery electrolyte composition for use within a lithium battery such as but not limited to a lithium metal battery or a lithium ion battery as well as the IL NIM and a battery that includes the IL NIM in the battery electrolyte composition. The battery electrolyte composition in accordance with the embodiments comprises an ionic liquid nanoscale ionic material IL NIM that comprises 1 a metal oxide nanoparticle 2 at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety tethered to the metal oxide nanoparticle and 3 a counter anion associated with the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety and charge balancing the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety. The battery electrolyte composition also includes a lithium salt typically but not necessarily that includes a counter anion that is the same as the IL NIM.

I. General Method and Materials Considerations for the Ionic Liquid Nanoscale Ionic Material IL NIM and the Battery Electrolyte Composition in Accordance with the Embodiments

The embodiments provide a family of solventless electrolytes created by tethering ILs to hard inorganic ZrOnanostructures which may generally be considered as nanoparticles as well as other insulating inorganic metal oxide nanostructures which may also be considered as nanoparticles as illustrated within the context of the chemical structure of . Termed ionic liquid nanoscale ionic materials IL NIMs these fluids exhibit exceptional redox stability windows excellent thermal stability good Li transference numbers long term interfacial stability in the presence of a lithium anode and when doped with a lithium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide LiTFSI salt or other lithium salt preferably including a comparatively bulky anion reasonable ionic conductivities. Additionally mechanical characterization measurements indicate that the shear modulus of these IL NIMs are many orders of magnitude larger than their non tethered ionic liquid precursors. These same measurements show that IL NIM electrolytes belong to a class of yield stress materials termed soft glasses in which each nanoscale organic inorganic hybrid building block is trapped in a potential energy well many times deeper than the mean thermal energy kT. Thus when viewed from the vantage point of a diffusing Li ion or moving Li dendrite front IL NIM battery electrolytes are analogous to porous solids with tunable pore chemistry dimensions tortuosities and surface chemistry e.g. by changing the core particle and or the IL ligand chemistry size and grafting density . By taking advantage of the already large libraries of available nanoparticle and ionic liquid chemistries IL NIMs open up a new vista for engineering novel hybrid battery electrolytes with exceptional electrochemical mechanical and thermal stability for applications in secondary lithium metal and lithium ion batteries.

As noted above and as illustrated in an IL NIM in accordance with the embodiments comprises 1 a nanoparticle and 2 an ionic liquid molecule comprising a at least one of a nitrogen cation moiety a phosphorus cation moiety and a sulfur cation moiety tethered to the nanoparticle and b a counter anion associated with the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety and charge balancing the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety. Although illustrates a single ionic liquid molecule including a nitrogen cation moiety tethered to a single nanoparticle through a condensed alkoxysilane linkage and while the embodiments contemplate that a particular cation moiety within each ionic liquid molecule is tethered to only a single nanoparticle within the method for preparing an IL NIM composition and the IL NIM composition to avoid crosslinking of nanoparticles through a multifunctional ionic liquid the embodiments intend that each nanoparticle may have tethered thereto more than one cation moiety within more than one ionic liquid molecule and generally from about 10 to about 1000 cation moieties within about 10 to about 1000 ionic liquid molecules and more preferably from about 50 to about 500 cation moieties within about 50 to about 500 ionic liquid molecules.

In addition while the embodiments describe a battery electrolyte and a resulting battery that includes the IL NIM that includes an ionic liquid tethered to only a single nanoparticle to avoid nanoparticle cross linking a battery electrolyte and a resulting battery in accordance with the embodiments may also contemplate that a cation moiety within an IL NIM is bonded to at least one nanoparticle.

With respect to the nanoparticle the nanoparticle may comprise a dielectric nanoparticle material and in particular a metal oxide dielectric nanoparticle material. Particular examples of metal oxide dielectric nanoparticle materials that may be used for fabricating a nanoparticle in accordance with the embodiments include but are not limited to silica alumina ceria titania vanadia and zirconia dielectric metal oxide materials. The embodiments also contemplate nanoparticles that comprise mixed metal oxide dielectric metal oxide nanoparticle materials. Typically and preferably the nanoparticle in accordance with the embodiments has a size range from about 2 to about 1000 nanometers and more preferably from about 10 to about 50 nanometers.

With respect to the nitrogen cation moiety within the ionic liquid material the nitrogen cation moiety may comprise a nitrogen cation selected from the group including but not limited to an imidazolium ammonium pyridinium piperdinium and pyrrolidinium nitrogen cation moieties. The embodiments also contemplate that phosphorus containing cation moieties such as but not limited to phosphonium cation moieties and related nitrogen correlating phosphorus cation moieties and sulfur containing cation moieties such as but not limited to sulfonium cation moieties and related nitrogen correlating sulfur cation moieties may also be tethered within the context of ionic liquids in accordance with the embodiments.

Such nitrogen cation moieties phosphorus cation moieties and sulfur cation moieties may be tethered with respect to the nanoparticle of the embodiments by means of an organic chemical chain from about 2 to about 20 carbon atoms including but not limited to alkyl organic chemical chains alkenyl organic chemical chains or alkynl organic chemical chains. Other types and compositions for tethering of a nanoparticle are not precluded within the embodiments. The tethering of the nitrogen cation moieties the phosphorus cation moieties or the sulfur cation moieties with respect to the nanoparticle may be effected using chemical bonding including but not limited to covalent bonding and ionic bonding although covalent bonding using an ionic liquid functional alkoxysilane coupling agent is particularly common.

With respect to the counter anion that charge balances the at least one of the nitrogen cation moiety the phosphorus cation moiety and the sulfur cation moiety the counter anion may be selected from the group including but not limited to tetrafluoroborate BF hexafluorophosphate PF bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide TFSI trifluoromethane sulfonate trifluoroacetate acetate nitrate chloride bromide iodide bis pentafluoroethylsulfonyl imide dicynamide hexafluoroarsenate AsF hexafluoroantimonate SbF and tetrachloroaluminate AlCl counter anions.

As will be disclosed in greater detail below the embodiments contemplate the use of an IL NIM in accordance with the embodiments in conjunction with a lithium salt as an electrolyte material within a battery and in particular within a lithium battery such as but not limited to a lithium metal battery or a lithium ion battery. The lithium salt may include the same or different anion as the IL NIM. Typically the battery electrolyte includes the IL NIM and the lithium salt in an IL NIM lithium salt weight ratio from about 10 1 to about 1 10 and more preferably from about 5 1 to about 1 1.

As will be discussed in further detail below the embodiments also contemplate use of a host material that provides particular desirable characteristics of materials compositions in accordance with the embodiments. Within the context of the embodiments such host materials may include but are not necessarily limited to 1 an ionic liquid material that is not tethered to any nanoparticle 2 a solvent selected from the group including but not limited to carbonates ethers acetamides acetontrile symmetric sulfones 1 3 dioxolanes glymes siloxanes and blends of the foregoing solvents and 3 a polymer selected from the group including but not limited to polyethylene oxides polypropylene oxides polyacrylonitriles polysiloxanes polyimides polyethers sulfonated polyimides perfluorinated polymers and blends of the foregoing polymers. Typically the host material is present at an IL NIM host material weight ratio from about 1 900 to about 900 1 and more preferably from about 1 10 to about 40 1.

When preparing an IL NIM in accordance with the embodiments and in order to avoid agglomeration of nanoparticles a particular method for preparation of the IL NIM provides for forming the nanoparticles in situ in solution by hydrolysis condensation or other suitable reaction of an appropriate nanoparticle metal oxide precursor material. Such a nanoparticle metal oxide precursor material may include but is not necessarily limited to tetraethylorthosilicate TEOS i.e. for a nanoparticle comprising silica zirconium chloride i.e. for a nanoparticle comprising zirconia or titanium chloride i.e. for a nanoparticle comprising titania . Once the desirable nanoparticles have been prepared formed in situ in solution a particular ionic liquid material may be tethered to a particular nanoparticle and generally to a single nanoparticle while using an appropriate ionic liquid functional coupling agent.

II. Zirconia Nanoparticle Tethered Ionic Liquid Nanoscale Ionic Material IL NIM Compositions in Accordance with a First Embodiment

The IL NIMs disclosed as a first embodiment within this section were prepared by covalently tethering imidazolium based ILs to zirconia ZrO nanoparticles as illustrated in in a single pot synthesis. The IL precursor was synthesized using a generally conventional method and the ZrOnanoparticle cores were created using a modified Stober scheme. A similar approach can be used to create an IL NIM based on most other metal oxide core nanoparticle materials. Results from light scattering measurements as illustrated in show that the average particle size is 86 2 nm and that the related particle size distribution is narrow. The inset to shows that an IL NIM battery electrolyte containing 1M LiTFSI is a gel like fluid at room temperature. Transmission electron microscopy TEM images as illustrated in of these battery electrolytes show that they are hybrids comprised of a dense collection of nanostructures.

Thermal properties of the battery electrolyte materials were characterized by differential scanning calorimetry DSC and thermal gravimetric analysis TGA . The TGA data of shows that the IL NIM battery electrolytes are stable against thermal degradation up to temperatures exceeding 400 C. The DSC results of indicate that the glass transition temperature T of the IL NIM 50 C. is substantially higher than that of the precursor IL 80 C. implying that the constraints provided by the nanoparticle cores propagate down to the IL segments. The DSC data also suggests that covalent tethering of the IL to the ZrOnanoparticle core lowers the overall mobility of IL constituents. The DSC data also indicates that addition of LiTFSI salt to the IL NIM to provide a battery electrolyte further increased the T.

Ionic conductivities of the IL and IL NIM with and without I M LiTFSI were measured using dielectric spectroscopy at different temperatures. compares the measured ionic conductivities as a function of temperature. The addition of LiTFSI to the IL increases a viscosity which results in a lower ionic conductivity. However in the case of the IL NIM addition of LiTFSI salt produces a measurable increase in ionic conductivity. At room temperature ionic conductivity values for both the LiTFSI doped IL and LL NIM may be comparable to that of other polymer electrolytes. also shows that the temperature dependence is of the Vogel Fulcher Tammann VFT type characteristic of a typical glass forming system. The VFT parameters are provided in the following Table I.

An ideal Li battery electrolyte should be permeable only to Li ions. However in practical situations contributions from counterions can be appreciable. The Li ion transference number T the Li ion contribution to ionic conduction of IL NIMs was measured by imposing a step dc polarization. Results are illustrated in . This approach yielded T 0.35 0.04 which is more than one order of magnitude larger than the pure IL electrolytes 0.05 . The improvement in Tis believed to reflect immobilization of the IL cations by the ZrOnanoparticle core which substantially reduces their contribution in ionic conduction.

Two other desirable characteristics for a successful Li battery electrolyte are electrochemical stability over the voltage range of interest in anticipated applications and good interfacial stability towards the Li metal electrode. The electrochemical stability window EW of an IL NIM was determined against a Li metal electrode using linear sweep voltammetry i.e. as illustrated in and cyclic voltammetry i.e. as illustrated in . The voltage region demarking the onset of anion oxidation and cation reduction is seen to be about 4.5V vs Li for the IL liquid and 4.3V for the IL NIM indicating that the improvement in Tfor the IL NIM battery electrolyte is achieved without loss of electrochemical robustness of the IL corona.

To evaluate the stability of the Li IL NIM interface the interfacial resistance of the Li metal electrode and an IL NIM electrolyte was monitored over a one month period using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. shows the evolution of impedance spectra collected at open circuit potential of Li electrolyte Li salt Li cell as a function of time. The time evolution of the Li interfacial resistance was estimated by fitting the impedance spectra to an appropriate equivalent electrical circuit. As shown in inset the interfacial resistance exhibits little if any change with time confirming the stability of the IL NIM battery electrolyte towards Li metal. Additionally the interface stability and reversibility of the IL NIM battery electrolyte was evaluated using lithium stripping plating experiments. For these experiments a current flux of 1 A cmwas applied to a Li electrolyte Li salt Li symmetric cell for 5 mins before reversing the polarity. The resulting voltage profiles due to Lithium plating stripping are provided in . It is clearly evident that the voltage profiles stabilize after 5 cycles and exhibit time invariant characteristics for 100 cycles similar to the impedance studies. This result nicely confirms the interfacial stability and reversibility of ZrO IL NIM battery electrolyte towards Li metal.

As is understood by a person skilled in the art another desirable characteristic of a good electrolyte for Li metal cells is a mechanical strength. Dynamic shear moduli of an IL NIM was measured as a function of shear strain. In a typical measurement an oscillatory shear strain was imposed with a fixed frequency 10 rad s and the dynamic storage G and loss G moduli measured as a function of applied strain. top graph depicts the strain dependent moduli and shear stress for the IL NIM. At low strains G and G are seen to be independent of the applied strain and G G both characteristics of a solid like elastic material. The elastic modulus in the limit of zero strain is found to be 4.5 MPa i.e. more than five orders of magnitude higher than that of the untethered ionic liquid. With progressive increase in shear strain G rapidly increases exhibits a pronounced maximum and subsequently dominates G indicative of a strain induced transition to a fluid like state. All of these observations are generic behaviors seen in a class of materials termed as soft glasses. In the soft glass framework the maximum in G and the transition from solid to liquid like behavior are predicted to be accompanied by a change in slope of the shear stress which is evidently also observed in the present material of top graph and is a macroscopic consequences of yielding of the nanoscale cages that constrain each IL NIM building block. bottom graph clearly shows that the loss modulus maximum increases as temperature is increased and the yield strain strain at which the loss maximum occurs is nearly independent of temperature. Neither feature can be explained in the soft glassy rheology framework but imply that the IL NIM becomes mechanically stronger as temperature is increased in this range.

In summary the foregoing first embodiment shows that by densely tethering ionic liquids to nanoparticles it is possible to create a family of electrolytes that possess multiple attractive attributes for Li battery applications. Specifically the foregoing first embodiment shows that an IL NIM based on a ZrOcore nanoparticle spontaneously forms a porous media with tunable mechanical properties exhibits excellent thermal stability wide redox stability windows good Li ion transference numbers and moderate ionic conductivities. Additionally the foregoing first embodiment shows that these electrolytes exhibit excellent time invariant interfacial stability against Li metal.

The IL precursor 1 undocyltrimethoxysilane 3 butyl imidazolium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide was synthesized using a conventional literature procedure. Purity of the IL was verified using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy. The as prepared IL was tethered to ZrOnanoparticles in a single pot synthesis using a modified Stober type sol gel method. In a typical reaction 0.4 mL of zirconium iso butoxide and 0.4 mL of 0.1 M KCl were mixed in 100 mL of absolute ethanol. After about 20 min. when the solution became hazy indicating the formation of ZrOnanoparticles 3 g of IL was added and the contents stirred for at least 48 hrs. IL tethered ZrOnanoparticles were collected by centrifuging and washing with anhydrous ethyl ether.

TGA and DSC measurements were conducted using TA instruments model Q5000 and Q2000 thermal gravimetric analyzer and differential scanning calorimeter respectively. TEM images were taken at 120 kV using a TECNAI F12 TEM. Ionic conductivity was measured with a Novacontrol s dielectric spectrometer outfitted with a Quatro temperature control system. Electrochemical measurements were performed using a Solartron s CellTest model potentiostat. Impedance measurements were conducted using a Solartron Frequency Response Analyser Model 1252 at frequencies ranging from 100 kHz to 100 mHz and at 25 mV. Lithium symmetric coin cells were prepared in a Mbraun glovebox. Rheology measurements were obtained using an Anton Parr MCR 501 mechanical Rheometer.

III. Silica Nanoparticle Tethered Ionic Liquid Nanoscale Ionic Material IL NIM in Accordance with a Second Embodiment

As indicated above the embodiments contemplate several metal oxide nanoparticles in addition to zirconia nanoparticles for use when preparing an IL NIM and also a battery electrolyte predicated upon the IL NIM. Thus a particularly prevalent and common choice for metal oxide nanoparticle is silica. To that end a silica based IL NIM was prepared using generally similar processing sequence in comparison with the foregoing zirconia based IL NIM. A specific processing scheme for preparing such silica based IL NIM is illustrated in . The processing scheme that is used within the context of is generally similar to the processing scheme that may be used in accordance with the first embodiment to provide the IL NIM illustrated in but with the exception of use of a methyl propyl imidazolium nitrogen cation material.

For comparison purposes the ionic conductivity of the SiO IL TFSI battery electrolytes in accordance with this second embodiment is presented in as a function of temperature and LiTFSI loading. The experimental data is fit by a VFT form A exp B T T where A is the pre exponential factor for the range of temperature studied B is the effective activation energy barrier for coupled ions and local segment motion in thermal units and T and Tare the measurement and reference temperatures respectively. The VFT parameters are summarized in Table II for all of the materials evaluated within the context of this second embodiment. It should be noted that VFT like temperature dependent ionic conductivities are found in electrolytes where local segmental motion chain relaxation and crystallinity play important roles and the motion of the ions themselves from one battery electrolyte site to another is of minor importance. Although perhaps expected for systems such as this second embodiment where the chain length of the tethered ionic liquid is small compared with the diameter of silica nanoparticle core thus the VFT dependence implies that the ionic conductivity of the SiO IL TFSI LiTFSI battery electrolyte mixtures can be understood in terms of local segmetal and breathing motions of molecules in the materials.

The electrochemical stability of the 13.4 wt SiO IL TFSI LiTFSI hybrid battery electrolyte is also attractive. Specifically the stability window of the electrolyte that exhibits the largest ionic conductivity was characterized using linear sweep voltammetry in a symmetric lithium coin cell at room temperature as illustrated in top graph. The material is seen to display an EW of around 4.25 V vs. Li Li. This stability has been confirmed using cyclic voltammetry as illustrated in bottom graph which shows that following the 1cycle i.e. the high current cycle the materials exhibit repeatable I V curves for the following nine cycles.

IV. Ionic Liquid Nanoscale Ionic Material IL NIM Using Silica and an IL Host Material in Accordance with a Third Embodiment

Insofar as the foregoing embodiments that are predicated upon zirconia based IL NIM and silica based IL NIM materials are consistently illustrative of application of such zirconia based IL NIM and silica based IL NIM materials within battery electrolytes and in particular within lithium battery electrolytes additional embodiments are intended to be directed towards further improvements with respect to battery electrolyte properties of IL NIM materials.

To that end additional investigations were undertaken within the context of a battery electrolyte composition that included an additional host component IL material but not an IL NIM material. The particular IL NIM plus host material is illustrated in which illustrates the same silica nanoparticle tethered IL NIM that was used in the second embodiment but now also including a methyl butyl pyrrolidinium nitrogen cation moiety and the same TFSI counter anion.

The main results of such further investigations with respect to the host material in accordance with the third embodiment are summarized in and . and report on thermal transitions in 1 butyl 3 methyl pyrrolidinium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide IL BmpyrTFSI as well as for the BmpyrTFSI SiO IL TFSI dispersions deduced from differential scanning calorimetry DSC measurements at a fixed temperature ramp rate of 5 C. min. shows that pure BmpyrTFSI IL manifests a glass transition at a temperature T 87 C. a crystallization transition at T 60 C. and a melting transition at a temperature T 18 C. BmpyrTFSI also exhibits a metastable phase with melting temperature of 24 C. The crystallization transition following Tindicates that the as prepared material is in a supercooled state.

Remarkably also shows that addition of as little as 0.1 wt SiO IL TFSI 1 trimethoxysilyl propyl 3 methyl imidazolium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide nanoparticles to BmpyrTFSI has a dramatic effect on both the crystallization and melting transitions but no effect on the glass transition. Specifically shows that Tfor the BmpyrTFSI IL is unaffected by addition of SiO SpmImTFSI but that both the energy change due to crystallization from the supercooled state and from the melting transition are considerably reduced. The transition temperatures however remain more or less the same. At higher loadings of the SiO IL TFSI nanostructures the effect remains but its magnitude is largely unaffected by the nanoparticle content. However at 40 wt particle loading as illustrated in both the crystallization and melting transitions disappear and the material exhibits only a glass transition temperature T 85 C. essentially the same as for the pure BmpyrTFSI.

V. Ionic Liquid Nanoscale Ionic Material IL NIM Using Silica Nanoparticles and a Propylene Carbonate Host Material in Accordance with a Fourth Embodiment

As has been suggested above desirable within the context of a battery electrolyte in accordance with the embodiments is a battery electrolyte that inhibits lithium dendrite growth.

To that end a battery electrolyte composition in accordance with the fourth embodiment utilized a battery electrolyte composition in accordance with the second embodiment and added a propylene carbonate host material at a concentration ranging from 1 to 100 weight percent with respect to the IL NIM and a LiTFSI salt at a concentration ranging from 1 to 50 weight percent with respect to the IL NIM.

VI. Ionic Liquid Nanoscale Ionic Material IL NIM Using Silica and Poly ethylene oxide Host in Accordance with a Fifth Embodiment

This particular embodiment also derives from the battery electrolyte composition in accordance with the second embodiment.

Within this fifth embodiment IL NIM based battery electrolytes were prepared by blending different weight fractions wt of IL functionalized SiOnanoparticles in moderately low molecular weight poly ethylene oxide PEO polymer MW 400 g mol doped with a lithium salt lithium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide LiTFSI .

The as prepared SiO IL TFSI particles were dissolved in acetone and mixed with low molecular poly ethylene oxide MW 400 containing 1M LiTFSI salt. Ionic conductivity and storage moduli of the hybrid electrolytes were measured using dielectric spectroscopy and Anton Parr MCR 501 mechanical rheometer respectively. shows the ionic conductivity and storage modulus plot of the IL tethered SiOparticle at various particle loadings. The conductivity and moduli for the suspensions are essentially decoupled whereas the conductivity changes by at most a factor of three the elastic storage modulus G changes by 10 orders of magnitude over the same particle concentration range. This observation is significant because it suggests that this hybrid particle platform can be used to create hybrid electrolytes with exceptional mechanical properties without significantly compromising conductivity.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties to the extent allowed and as if each reference was individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and was set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the embodiments and the invention especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening.

The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it was individually recited herein.

All methods described herein may be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not impose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.

No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. There is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

