---

title: Hybrid model in self-provisioning process
abstract: A networked computing device may be configured to determine, by a service application executing on the networked computing device, to change a configuration of a network service plan associated with the networked computing device and used by the service application, the network service plan identifying whether at least one service of the communications network is available for use by the networked computing device, request self-provisioning content from a self-provisioning gateway responsive to the determination, provide, by the service application, a user interface for configuration of the network service plan based on the received self-provisioning content, send a change data feature request to the self-provisioning gateway responsive to a request for the change in the configuration of the network service plan through the provided user interface, and allow for utilization of the service application after receiving a response to the change data feature request without having to restart the service application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799426&OS=08799426&RS=08799426
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08799426
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120705
---
A user of an electronic device may be required to sign up for a service before being granted access to the service. For example to log into a website a user may be required to fill out a registration form to create an account and then use the account to log in. As another example to view a premium cable channel a user may be required to contact his or her service provider to make a change to his or her cable plan. Such procedures may be frustrating and may provide for a poor user experience.

In some cases a user of a networked computing device may not be subscribed to a service required for operation of a service application of the networked computing device. For example the user s network service plan may not cover services such as streaming media voicemail or navigation. A Self Provisioning Gateway SPG is a device on the network that allows a user to enable and disable subscription services by way of the user s networked computing device. By using an application on the networked computing device a user may utilize the SPG to sign up for additional network services.

However many implementations of provisioning systems using SPGs provide a poor user experience. In some examples users are forced to exit the application for which they desire service use a web application to perform the provisioning process and then reinitialize the original application. In other examples users may receive out of date provisioning information such as incorrect pricing or service descriptions.

An improved SPG provisioning model may be utilized to provide a better user experience and improve response time during the self provisioning process. When subscribing from a service application on the networked computing device the user may be able to complete the provisioning flow directly from the service application without having to resort to external web pages. This accordingly allows vendors of service applications to provide user interfaces consistent with the rest of the vendor s application. Moreover once the user completes the provisioning process the user may immediately access the service application without having to reopen it. Yet further the improved SPG provisioning model may provide system administrators the ability to easily update information presented during the provisioning process.

The communications network may provide communications services such as packet switched network services e.g. Internet access and or VoIP communication services and circuit switched services e.g. plain old telephone service POTS and or integrated services digital network ISDN services to devices such as the networked computing device . Correspondingly the networked computing device on the communications network may have its own unique identifier which may be used to indicate reference or selectively connect to other networked computing devices on the communications network . Exemplary unique device identifiers may include mobile device numbers MDNs Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs Internet Protocol IP addresses media access control MAC addresses subscriber identification module SIM identifiers international mobile equipment identity IMEI identifiers and international mobile subscriber identity IMSI identifiers among others.

A network service plan may identify the services and or other features of the communications network that may be available for use by the networked computing device . This identification may be based on one or more unique identifiers associated with the networked computing device . As some examples of network service features the network service plan may identify whether a networked computing device may have access to streaming media services voicemail services and or navigation services available via the communications network . The network service plan may include additional information such as pricing and offer information for use of the network services by the networked computing device .

The billing system may be configured to house user information relating to the users of the networked computing devices . For example the billing system may be configured to store the network service plan associated with the network computing device . Additionally the billing system may further be configured to make changes to a user s service profile such as changes to the network service plan associated with a networked computing device . The billing system may also further be configured to receive requests to make such changes to the configuration of a network service plan associated with the networked computing device and may respond to these requests by making appropriate updates to the user s network service plan .

The activation system may be configured to provision the user s network service plan over the various switches platforms and sub networks of the communications network . Accordingly the activation system may work with the billing system to provision changes in network service plans associated with networked computing devices . Exemplary activation systems may include mobile telephone activation systems and cable television activation systems among others.

The networked computing device may include a service application configured to provide access to one or more services available to the networked computing device over the communications network . In some cases the service application may require the configuration of the network service plan associated with the networked computing device to allow for the use of certain services. For instance use of a navigation service application may require the network service plan to allow for the use of navigation services. Or use of a video streaming service application may require the network service plan to allow for video streaming services. Or use of a voicemail service application may require the network service plan to allow for voicemail messaging services.

The SPG may be a device or application which allows users of networked computing devices to enable and disable services by way of the networked computing device . The SPG accordingly provides provisioning services to the networked computing devices . Additionally the SPG may provide validation services such as verifying that the networked computing device is associated with an identifier e.g. MDN URI etc. authorized to access the SPG . Moreover the SPG may receive from networked computing devices requests for self provisioning SP content for use in provisioning of services to the networked computing devices . The SP content may include pricing and offer information terms and conditions and the other text used during the provisioning process. Additionally the SPG may receive requests for changes in the configuration of the network service plan from the networked computing devices and may implement those requests including forwarding them to the billing system and or activation system .

In general computing systems and or devices such as networked computing device may employ any of a number of computer operating systems including but by no means limited to versions and or varieties of the Microsoft Windows operating system the Unix operating system e.g. the Solaris operating system distributed by Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. the AIX UNIX operating system distributed by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. the Linux operating system the Mac OS X and iOS operating systems distributed by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. the BlackBerry OS distributed by Research In Motion of Waterloo Canada and the Android operating system developed by the Open Handset Alliance.

Computing devices such as networked computing devices generally include computer executable instructions where the instructions may be executable by one or more computing devices such as those listed above. Computer executable instructions may be compiled or interpreted from computer programs created using a variety of programming languages and or technologies including without limitation and either alone or in combination Java C C Visual Basic Java Script Perl etc. In general a processor or microprocessor receives instructions e.g. from a memory a computer readable medium etc. and executes these instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions and other data may be stored and transmitted using a variety of computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any non transitory e.g. tangible medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Such instructions may be transmitted by one or more transmission media including coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to a processor of a computer. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Databases data repositories or other data stores described herein may include various kinds of mechanisms for storing accessing and retrieving various kinds of data including a hierarchical database a set of files in a file system an application database in a proprietary format a relational database management system RDBMS etc. Each such data store is generally included within a computing device employing a computer operating system such as one of those mentioned above and are accessed via a network in any one or more of a variety of manners. A file system may be accessible from a computer operating system and may include files stored in various formats. An RDBMS generally employs the Structured Query Language SQL in addition to a language for creating storing editing and executing stored procedures such as the PL SQL language mentioned above.

In some examples system elements may be implemented as computer readable instructions e.g. software on one or more computing devices e.g. servers personal computers etc. stored on computer readable media associated therewith e.g. disks memories etc. . A computer program product may comprise such instructions stored on computer readable media for carrying out the functions described herein. The service application may be one such computer program product. In some example the service application may be provided as software that when executed by the processor provides the operations described herein. Alternatively the service application may be provided as hardware or firmware or combinations of software hardware and or firmware.

If the user is not yet subscribed to the service the service application may send a request to provision the required service and may launch a browser application to interact with the SPG . The SPG may provide a sign up page additional information pages and terms and conditions pages to guide the user through the subscription process for the service. When the user chooses to submit a provisioning request to update his or her network service plan the SPG may perform appropriate checks on the request and call a backend application programming interface API to submit the order to subscribe the user to the service. For example the SPG may send an activation request to the activation system to facilitate configuration of the underlying network architecture.

The client model offers certain advantages. For example because the SPG controls all the pricing and offer information and textual information it is easy for a system operator to make an update to the terms descriptions or costs of the service. Moreover these updates may be made without updates to the service application on the networked computing device . The client model however may be considered by some to suffer certain disadvantages. For example because the service application launches the browser application and connects to the SPG the user may experience a different display style when moving from the service application to the browser. As another potential disadvantage once the provisioning process is complete the user may be forced to close the service application and then reopen the service application . As yet another arguable disadvantage according to at least some the client model may be relatively slow to navigate from page to page as the page data may be served over the communications network from the SPG .

If the user does not have the subscription the service application itself may guide the user to subscribe to the service. When the user submits a request to sign up for the service the service application may send a provisioning request to a third party vendor . The third party vendor in turn may send a request to the SPG to update the user s network service plan . The SPG then may perform appropriate checks on the request and may call the backend API to submit the order to subscribe the user to the service. For example the SPG may send an activation request to the activation system to facilitate configuration of the underlying network architecture.

The vendor model offers certain advantages such as that the user has a unified application experience uninterrupted by transfer to a web application. However a potential disadvantage of the vendor model is that it is difficult for a system operator to update pricing and offer information terms and conditions and the other text used during the provisioning process. For example if the relevant pricing and plan information is stored within the service application itself a new version of the service application may be required to provide updated information. Another arguable disadvantage of the vendor model is that a third party vendor may be required to invoke the provisioning process.

Similar to the client model and the vendor model in the hybrid model a user may select to utilize a service application on the networked computing device . When the user launches the service application the service application may determine whether use of the service application requires a change in the configuration of a network service plan associated with the networked computing device .

If the user does not have a subscription to the service the service application may send a request to the SPG for SP content to utilize in provisioning the service to the user. Notably the request for SP content is not a request for provisioning of the service itself. Rather the request for SP content is a request for information used to present provisioning information to the user thereby allowing the user to select an appropriate plan obtain more information regarding the service and view and accept the terms and conditions for the service. The SP content may further include pricing and offer information as well as information regarding current promotional offers. In some examples the content request may be implemented by way of a secure messaging protocol to the SPG such by way of hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS .

The SPG accordingly provides the requested SP content to the networked computing device in a suitable format. In some examples the response SP content may be encoded in a form of extensible markup language XML . The service application may then organize the received data and display it via the networked computing device . This portion of the hybrid model involving the request to and retrieval of SP content from the SPG may be referred to as the content fetch portion and is discussed in further detail with respect to .

Once the user has proceeded through the provisioning pages and submitted an activation request to sign up for the service the service application may create a request to provision the service for the networked computing device . In order to have the data necessary to create the request the service application may utilize the SP content received from the content fetch portion of the hybrid model along with the selections from the user. The service application then may send the provisioning request to the SPG . Once the request is submitted to the SPG the SPG may facilitate the provisioning of the service for the user. The SPG may further perform checks on the request such as verifying user access and may call a backend API to submit the order to subscribe the user to the service. For example the SPG may forward the validated request to the billing system and or activation system . The SPG may further return a response to the activation request to the service application indicating whether the activation request was successful. This second portion of the hybrid model call flow relating to provisioning the service may be referred to as a change data feature request and is discussed in further detail with respect to .

By using the hybrid model a user is able to complete the provisioning flow directly from the service application without having to use a separate web browser application. Additionally the hybrid model provides the advantage that once the user has completed both portions of the hybrid model the user can immediately access the service application without having to reopen it.

Further because the SPG provides the SP content in the hybrid model the service application may provide the SP content in a form that is visually consistent with the rest of the service application . For example navigation service applications from different vendors could utilize the same SP content from the SPG but may present the SP content in different user interface styles each of which is perhaps unique to the vendor or navigation service application . While different service applications from different vendors may use the same SP content the provisioning requests sent from the different service applications may identify which vendor s service application is sending the provisioning request. For instance the provisioning request may include a parameter in the request to identify the associated vendor of the service application . The parameter may be any numerical or other type of code suitable for identifying the vendor. In some examples the parameter may be a value assigned to the vendor by the SPG billing system and or activation system . In other examples the parameter may be assigned to the vendor according to a pricing agreement between the vendor and the service provider. This parameter may be referred to as a channel identifier.

Yet further because the SPG controls all the provisioning flows pricing and offer information and textual information it is easy for a system operator to make an update to the terms descriptions or costs of the service. Moreover these updates may be made without updates to the service application or to the networked computing device .

In block the service application determines whether use of the service application requires a change in the configuration of a network service plan associated with the networked computing device . For example the service application may attempt to access a service over the communications network and may receive a reply from the service indicating that the networked computing device is not authorized.

In block the service application sends a SP content request to the SPG . The SP content request may include a request for pricing and offer information and textual information necessary to provide prompts to the user of the networked computing device . The requested SP content may accordingly be sufficient to allow for the user to submit a request to facilitate the provisioning of the service. In some examples the SP content request may be sent to the SPG over a secure protocol such as HTTPS.

In block the SPG validates the networked computing device . For example the SPG may verify that the networked computing device is associated with a MDN or URI authorized to access the SPG . If the networked computing device is not authorized then the process ends. Otherwise the process continues to block .

In block the SPG obtains sign up offers appropriate for the networked computing device . For example the SPG may determine or otherwise obtain offers based on the current plan information of the networked computing device according to the geographic location of the networked computing device based on the type or model of the networked computing device based on the vendor of the service application and or based on a user rating associated with the networked computing device . As an example based on the current plan information of the networked computing device the SPG may provide an offer for a discount on multiple unsubscribed services if they are purchased together in a bundle. As another example the SPG may adjust the pricing of an offer for a service based on the present location or the home location of the networked computing device . As yet another example the SPG may offer different pricing for the same service based on the vendor of the service application potentially based on a pricing agreement between the vendor and the service provider. As yet a further example the SPG may offer discounted pricing for networked computing devices associated with users who are highly rated on a social networking web site or users who consistently provide good quality product reviews.

In block the SPG creates a response including the SP content to be returned to the networked computing device . For example the SP content may include pricing and offer information including the determined offer information discussed above terms and conditions and the other text images or other information used during the provisioning process. The SPG may use an XML module to encode the SP content in an XML format.

In block the SPG sends the response including the SP content to the networked computing device . The SPG may send the SP content to the networked computing device as XML. In some cases the SP content may be returned over a secure protocol such as HTTPS. The SP content may be delivered via a push or pull technique.

In block the service application provides provisioning information to the user of the networked computing device according to the received SP content . For example the service application may provide a provisioning user interface directly from the service application without having to resort to web pages external to the service application . In some embodiments the information may be provided passively while in other embodiments the service application may prompt to the user to take action.

In block the service application receives a submit action from the user indicating that the user desires to make a change to the plan. If the user desires to make the change to the plan a provisioning portion of a process flow for a hybrid model may be executed next. Otherwise the process ends. The determination may thus be made via user action e.g. entering information accepting conditions or inaction e.g. by not selecting to accept the plan changes within a predetermined amount of time set by for example the service application or SPG .

In block the service application provides a request for activation to the SPG . For example the service application may send an XML request to the SPG including a plan change agreed to by the user of the networked computing device .

In block the SPG optionally determines a parameter of the request using a channel identifier included in the request. In some cases a channel identifier may be included in the provisioning request identifying the vendor of the service application . This channel identifier may be understood by the SPG and may be used in part to determine costs or other aspects of the change to the network service plan . For instance use of navigation service may incur one cost if used from a service application from one vendor but may incur a different cost if used from a service application from another vendor. Accordingly the request for use of navigation services may include a channel identifier identifying the vendor of the service application . As another example a request for additional network storage capacity may include a channel identifier identifying the amount of additional storage being requested or an additional amount of bandwidth being requested. For instance the channel identifier may be set to a first value to indicate an amount of additional storage or bandwidth and may be set to a second value to indicate a greater or lesser amount of additional storage or bandwidth.

In block the SPG calls a backend API to submit the order for the user. For example the SPG send a request to the billing system which in turn may forward a message to the activation system to implement network changes necessary to implement the plan change for the networked computing device . In some cases the SPG may use a backend API similar to that used by the vendor in the vendor model .

In block the SPG returns a response to the request for activation to the service application . The response may include an indication of whether the order was successfully processed by the SPG billing system and or activation system . In other cases rather than the SPG returning a response the service application may determine whether the activation request was successful by attempting to access the requested service over the communications network and determining based on a reply received from the service whether the service application is now authorized to use the service. After block the process and the hybrid model ends.

With regard to the processes systems methods heuristics etc. described herein it should be understood that although the steps of such processes etc. have been described as occurring according to a certain ordered sequence such processes could be practiced with the described steps performed in an order other than the order described herein. It further should be understood that certain steps could be performed simultaneously that other steps could be added or that certain steps described herein could be omitted. In other words the descriptions of processes herein are provided for the purpose of illustrating certain embodiments and should in no way be construed so as to limit the claims.

Accordingly it is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments and applications other than the examples provided would be apparent upon reading the above description. The scope should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is anticipated and intended that future developments will occur in the technologies discussed herein and that the disclosed systems and methods will be incorporated into such future embodiments. In sum it should be understood that the application is capable of modification and variation.

All terms used in the claims are intended to be given their broadest reasonable constructions and their ordinary meanings as understood by those knowledgeable in the technologies described herein unless an explicit indication to the contrary in made herein. In particular use of the singular articles such as a the said etc. should be read to recite one or more of the indicated elements unless a claim recites an explicit limitation to the contrary.

