---

title: Income analysis tools for wealth management
abstract: Enhanced processes, methods, tools, strategies, and techniques are provided for more effectively and efficiently processing, managing, analyzing, and communicating wealth related data and other financial information within a computing environment. In various embodiments, the analysis tools provided herein have been designed to correspond visually with a mental model employed by many clients in managing their wealth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606674&OS=08606674&RS=08606674
owner: The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
number: 08606674
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121126
---
The invention embodiments described herein generally relate to processing financial information within a computer system architecture. In various embodiments the invention more particularly relates to various computer implemented tools for managing and processing financial information including wealth management data.

How to effectively and efficiently manage financial resources is an important consideration for anyone who is responsible for cash assets or other material possessions that constitute wealth.

However many wealth management tools do not provide adequate assistance to wealth management clients such as the customers of a financial or banking institution for example. Many currently available tools do not address the uncertainty that wealth management clients may feel with regard to what comprises their wealth and what direction the growth of that wealth is taking. Tools are needed that can increase both the perception and the reality of proper control of assets by the wealth management client. Also tools that can foster a better relationship between clients and their advisors are critical for proper wealth management.

In view of the foregoing issues enhanced tools techniques and strategies are needed for processing managing displaying and communicating wealth management information.

Various embodiments of the invention provide enhanced processes methods tools strategies and techniques for more effectively and efficiently processing managing analyzing and communicating wealth related data and other financial information within a computing environment.

In developing embodiments of the invention the inventors have addressed the problem of how to present wealth management information to clients in the most effective way possible. The inventors have recognized that many clients perform financial related tasks such as paying bills reviewing investments opening mail and other such activities in a central place in their homes or offices. Various embodiments of the invention provide a mental model or mental buckets of how the client might typically view financial information by allowing the client to view the information in a way that corresponds with the home or office experience. In various embodiments the client is permitted to view multiple financial accounts as a consolidated display while having the capability to investigate the details of individual accounts as desired.

As described in more detail below embodiments of the invention sometimes referred to herein as Wealth Insight analytical tools offer an innovative design interface that caters to the way that many wealth management clients want to view their assets. These tools can be configured to provide appropriate distilled contextual information transparency to the financial situation of the client and a collaborative interface to support the client e.g. through an advisory team relationship . These tools can reduce uncertainty for the wealth management client increase a sense of control increase a depth of satisfaction with asset management and foster healthy client advisor relationships.

The transaction processor may be operatively associated with one or more modules A F that perform various functions within the management system . For example an allocation module A may be configured to process and display data and user interface tools related to an asset allocation or asset mix in the portfolio of a client . In another example an income analysis module B may be provided for summarizing and displaying transactions that impact income available for use by the clients . A performance module C may be provided for comparing performance of client accounts and assets against a benchmark such as a stock market index for example. A transactions module D may be programmed to allow clients to readily manipulate and graphically represent transactions involving their investments or assets for example over a variety of different time periods. In another example a resources module E may be programmed to provide clients with numerous types of information e.g. stock market news and to manage interactions between clients and a team of advisors. Also a Net Worth analysis module F may be provided for assisting clients with determining personal Net Worth calculations for example based on a combination of assets e.g. checking accounts saving accounts money market accounts houses etc. and liabilities which may represent future expenditures of financial resources e.g. college expenses weddings travel plans etc. .

In various embodiments the management system may include one or more data storage media operatively associated with the transaction processor . The data storage media may include data and other information associated with one or more client accounts for example including data related to assets liabilities investments and other financial information. The management system may also communicate with one or more external accounts to receive or transmit data. The external accounts may be financial accounts associated with the clients for example. The management system may also be configured for communication with one or more research vendor data sources . The vendor data sources may provide information such as market news for example or other financial data and updates. In various embodiments clients may communicate or interact with the management system through a variety of communication devices . Examples of possible communication devices include personal computers e.g. laptops notebooks desktops etc. mobile phones smart phones personal data devices and many other devices which can connect to the management system through a wireless or wireline connection e.g. Internet intranet or another type of connection .

With reference to an example of a portal screen that may be displayed to a client of a financial institution is shown. In this example the financial institution is a banking institution and the portal screen provides access to various online banking tools that the bank might offer to the client . The portal screen may display financial information to the client such as data related to checking accounts and saving accounts for example. In addition the portal screen may include a link to a section that provides various Wealth Insight tools to the client . When the client accesses the link the transaction processor may be directed to present a summary screen see on a display of a communication device associated with the client .

The summary screen may be integrated with the current online banking architecture of the financial institution. For example the client may navigate from the summary screen to other aspects of the online banking experience e.g. transfer funds pay bills business customer service My Offers or others . In various embodiments the summary screen can be configured to provide a brief overview of the assets of the client . In certain embodiments the client may select which accounts assets or other items are included in the calculations and other information processing performed by the Wealth. Insight tools. For example the client may select asset objects that represent accounts to include in a My PNC Folio section of the screen display . For example selection and grouping of the asset objects may be performed by clicking dragging and or dropping the asset objects on or within the vicinity of the My PNC Folio section . In this manner calculations performed by the tools described herein can be adjusted and revised based on the type of asset objects that comprise the My PNC Folio section . It can be seen that this click drag drop function can facilitate grouping of accounts in a mental model for viewing or manipulation by the client . In addition the My PNC Folio section can be configured to provide a quick view of the pertinent information for the accounts selected for the client including the value of those accounts. Selection and manipulation of asset objects liability objects and other types of objects may be accomplished with a suitable user manipulation device such as a mouse a stylus a finger of a user or by using a variety of other suitable manipulation devices.

In various embodiments an overview section provides a summary of the value of accounts selected. Also information including realized and unrealized gains for both long term gains and losses and short term gains and losses may be presented for the accounts. A pending transactions link can be accessed to generate a list of pending transactions such as transactions reflecting investment decisions made by the client for example.

An Allocation section may be configured to provide a summary of the allocation of assets across the accounts selected in the My PNC Folio section . This section can provide a summary of asset allocation for the client accounts including how they are positioned what holdings they represent and their concentrations. For example if the client is of retirement age and is drawing significant cash from the accounts for living expenses then the client might desire to maintain a greater percentage of assets in the fixed income category because of volatility concerns associated with other forms of investment e.g. equity investments . It can be seen that the Allocation section provides a convenient alternative for the client to viewing accounts separately including accounts held within the financial institution and accounts external to the institution.

In various embodiments an Income section provides an indication of the income produced by the accounts selected in the My PNC Folio section . This section provides an indication of what funds the client may have drawn for a given time period e.g. month to date year to date or other as well as an estimate of funds remaining for income for the relevant time period. For example if the client is in a retirement phase and is drawing significant funds for living expenses from the accounts then the client may want to know how much income is available for budgeting expenses such as utility bills mortgage payments taxes and other living expenses.

A Performance section may be configured to provide a summary for a given time period e.g. month to date year to date or another period of how the selected accounts have performed financially over the time period. It can be appreciated that presenting a year to date value for performance for example may reinforce a long term mentality for the client versus a shorter time period such as month to date. Within the Performance section a chart or other graphical representation can be provided to illustrate performance of the selected accounts. This section may also be configured to highlight more specifically net contributions or withdrawals including income being generated from the performance of the holdings and potentially gains or losses associated with the accounts. In addition in certain embodiments a percentage rate of return for performance may be calculated and displayed based on the selected accounts. In various embodiments a benchmark e.g. S P Index may be selected and presented for comparison purposes. Even though the selected benchmark may not be entirely applicable to the holdings or allocations of the selected accounts the benchmark may nonetheless serve as an indicator that the overall economy is doing well for example and that the client accounts are performing better or worse than that benchmark.

In various embodiments a Net Worth section may be provided to summarize and display a Net Worth calculation for the client . A View Details link can be provided to access more details of how the Net Worth calculation has been performed see discussion below . It can be seen that making adjustments to the composition of the My PNC Folio section such as by removing or adding accounts can be configured to adjust the summary sections presented on the screen display as well as the operation and calculation of other analytical tools described herein.

In certain embodiments one or more in context help videos can be viewed by selecting the help link . The in context help videos may be configured as video demonstrations of how to access and manipulate various portions of the screen display on which the link is provided. For example selecting the help link on the current screen display may provide among other content a video that demonstrates how to select the View Details link to access details on the basis for the Net Worth calculation in the Net Worth section . It can be appreciated that the content made available through the help link can be a function of the particular screen display on which the help link is presented.

In various embodiments the graphical display portion of the analysis tool may be presented as a pie chart with multiple segments such as an equity segment a fixed income segment and a cash segment . In one aspect by hovering over or selecting the segments with a user manipulation device e.g. a mouse information regarding that particular segment can be displayed. In the example shown the manipulation device is hovering over the equity segment to display a value of 14 080 for the equity segment . In certain embodiments selecting a segment can also be configured to display a list of the assets or accounts which comprise the selected segment . Selecting different segments can be performed to filter the holdings in the selected client accounts and generate a revised list .

In certain embodiments in the example of the allocation analysis tool shown in the graphical display portion may be configured with one or more sets of nested concentric rings. For example selecting an inner ring of the graphical display portion may be configured to provide a total value of the selected asset type e.g. the value of all cash holdings in the cash segment . In various embodiments one or more sub segments may be included within each concentric ring portion of the display portion . Selecting the sub segment may be configured to display an account or holding that forms a component part of the selected asset type. For example the sub segment may represent cash holdings within a money market account of the client . As shown in this example in the equity segment one sub segment may be designated to represent small market cap holdings and another sub segment may be designated to represent large market cap holdings. Examples of sub segments for the fixed income segment include treasuries corporate bonds and municipal bonds among others. Selecting a sub segment may also be configured to correspondingly update the list on the screen display . In this example various large market cap assets are displayed such as when the large market cap sub segment of the equity segment has been selected.

In various embodiments a summary breakdown of the entire asset allocation for the selected client accounts can be presented on the screen display . In certain embodiments the graphical display portion of the allocation analysis tool can be configured to change appearance e.g. shading coloring highlighting or other like appearance in the event that a desired asset allocation is below or above a desired level of asset type allocation. For example if a 40 allocation of cash is desired but recent changes in investments have now resulted in a 30.2 allocation of cash as shown then the appearance of the cash segment can be altered by the system to reflect that the desired allocation does not exist within the client accounts or holdings. This feature can serve as a warning signal to the client or a financial advisor to consider adjusting the mix of assets to achieve the desired allocation levels.

In various embodiments one graphical display portion of the tool may be provided to display net withdrawals or income outflows associated with the client accounts over a predetermined time period e.g. year to date . Another graphical display portion may be provided to display income inflows experienced by the client accounts during the same time period. In the example shown the graphical display portion may be divided into a first segment that illustrates actual income inflows into the selected accounts and a second segment that illustrates future estimated income associated with the accounts. In certain embodiments the graphical display portion may be further divided into one or more sub segments that represent specific sub periods within the selected overall time period. For example the sub segments may represent specific months of a predetermined year long time period.

In various embodiments the income analysis tool may be configured to permit a user manipulation device to select a given segment or sub segment to yield more detailed information associated with the selected segment or sub segment. For example by hovering over a given monthly sub segment transactions associated with the income inflows and outflows for that monthly sub segment can be displayed. In certain embodiments a transaction list can be displayed that illustrates transactions for a given time period. In the example shown transactions for the year period are displayed. These transactions may include My Actions transactions such as deposits or withdrawals initiated by the client and or income realized by account holdings such as through interest or dividend inflows. In addition an estimate of future income for a given time period may be displayed in the transaction list . It can be seen that the income analysis tool can be useful for enabling clients who depend on significant income from their account holdings to manage and plan for present and future expenses. In addition income inflows and outflows can be monitored closely over time by both clients and their financial advisors to make appropriate adjustments to investment strategies for example and other financial decisions.

It can be appreciated that comparisons yielded by the performance analysis tool can provide a relative measure of client asset value against a predetermined benchmark. This may serve to stimulate discussions between the client and a financial advisor regarding the expected or desired performance of assets in the client accounts. For example the client may be concerned that account performance does not suitably match current economic conditions as evidenced by potentially superior performance of a selected market index.

In various embodiments a search tool can be provided to enable searching and displaying transactions by various criteria such as by date posted description quantity of shares income principal and or realized gain or loss among others. In addition an export link may be provided for exporting transaction activity data to a desired spreadsheet program or financial planning software e.g. Quicken software for example.

In various embodiments an advisor team section may be offered to allow users to designate a list of preferred wealth advisors. A team of advisors may be presented to the user from a pool of potential advisors to include in the team section . In a secure environment clients and advisors may exchange information about client accounts investment strategy general economic conditions or other information related to making financial decisions. In one aspect the user may be permitted to arrange the team of advisors within the section in an order or hierarchy that is preferred by the user. For example the system may be configured to alert the first advisor listed in the team section if a decision regarding an account or transaction is required by the client .

In certain embodiments selection by an advisor for the advisor team section may be configured to facilitate communications between clients and their designated advisors. For example if a member of the advisor team section publishes an article on investment strategy then that article may be directly forwarded to the Investment Corner section by virtue of selection of the author as a member of the client team. In this manner the user may be offered a degree of control regarding which content is displayed on the screen display . In another aspect the client has ready access to communicate e.g. send an e mail questions or comments regarding financial decisions to their preferred advisors.

In various embodiments assets or liabilities that are non monetary may be created as accounts and included within or excluded from the groupings . Examples of non monetary assets include art collections automobiles vacation homes real estate among many others. With this feature the user can include whatever represents value to the user and can account for or not account for the asset within the Net Worth analysis. For example a user may create an account for a favorite sport vehicle but not include the account in a grouping of assets because the user does not desire the value of the sport vehicle to be accounted in the Net Worth calculation. Likewise with regard to liabilities an account can be created for a future liability such as to fund a child s college education and that account can be included in an appropriate grouping to become part of the Net Worth calculation. In certain embodiments a graphical portion of the Net Worth analysis tool can display the total Net Worth of the client as calculated based on the given groupings of assets and liabilities.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures user interface layouts or screen displays described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused discussions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Any element expressed herein as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a combination of elements that performs that function. Furthermore the invention as may be defined by such means plus function claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in a manner as defined by the appended claims. Therefore any means that can provide such functionalities may be considered equivalents to the means shown herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention. In certain embodiments a module may include software firmware hardware or any reasonable combination thereof.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system component or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media. In various embodiments a host engine loader filter platform or component may include various computers or computer systems or may include a reasonable combination of software firmware and or hardware.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl. Various embodiments may be employed in a Lotus Notes environment for example. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the computer systems data storage media or modules described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components or computer architecture. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

