---

title: MAC abstraction sub-layer and MAC table for a communication system and related communication device
abstract: A method of converging a plurality of communication standards is disclosed. The method comprises providing a medium access control (MAC) abstraction sub-layer, wherein the MAC abstraction sub-layer is arranged between an upper layer and a plurality of MAC layers of the plurality of communication standards; and providing a corresponding service management entity (SME) between the MAC abstraction sub-layer and the plurality of MAC layers and a plurality of physical (PHY) layers of the plurality of communication standards in a control plane; wherein the MAC abstraction sub-layer communicates with the plurality of MAC layers and the plurality of PHY layers in the control plane via the corresponding SME, and the corresponding SME communicates with the MAC abstraction sub-layer via an application programming interface (API).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485114&OS=09485114&RS=09485114
owner: MEDIATEK INC.
number: 09485114
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120102
---
This application claims both the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 467 402 filed on Mar. 25 2011 entitled MAC Abstraction Sub layer Definition and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 487 712 filed on May 19 2011 entitled MAC Table Based on MAC Abstraction Sub layer the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a method used for a communication system and related communication device and more particularly to a method of defining a medium access control MAC abstraction sub layer and a MAC table for a communication system and related communication device.

With rapidly growing of user s needs for accessing digital contents everywhere various communication standards have been developed for transmission of the digital contents. These communication standards may be developed for different environments different transmission speeds and or different user requirements. Further organizations and industries are now devoting to develop improved versions of the existing communication standards as well as completely new communication standards for satisfying the user s needs.

However even though these communication standards have been developed to satisfy the user s needs it may be difficult for a user to use a communication device conforming to these communication standards due to various system parameter settings for these communication standards. Further if each of these communication standards is realized by a specific module of the communication device power consumption is high due to using separate modules for realizing these communication standards. Besides manufacturing such the communication device is inefficient in both cost and size since part of functions of these communication standards are the same and should be converged.

The present invention therefore provides a method and related communication device for a medium access control MAC abstraction sub layer and a MAC table to solve the abovementioned problems.

A method of converging a plurality of communication standards is disclosed. The method comprises providing a medium access control MAC abstraction sub layer wherein the MAC abstraction sub layer is arranged between an upper layer and a plurality of MAC layers of the plurality of communication standards and providing a corresponding service management entity SME between the MAC abstraction sub layer and the plurality of MAC layers and a plurality of physical PHY layers of the plurality of communication standards in a control plane wherein the MAC abstraction sub layer communicates with the plurality of MAC layers and the plurality of PHY layers in the control plane via the corresponding SME and the corresponding SME communicates with the MAC abstraction sub layer via an application programming interface API .

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

Please refer to which is a schematic diagram of a communication system according to an example of the present invention. The communication system is briefly composed of a network and a plurality of clients CT. In the network and the clients CT are simply utilized for illustrating the structure of the communication system . Practically the network can be referred as to any network equipment such as a server a gateway a router or a bridge. The clients CT can be mobile phones laptops tablet computers electronic books modems and portable computer systems. Further a client CT may communicate with the network or another client CT according to a communication standard such as the IEEE 802.3 standard i.e. Ethernet the IEEE 802.11 standard i.e. WiFi the IEEE 1901 standard i.e. power line communication PLC or the Multimedia over Coax Alliance MoCA standard and is not limited herein.

Please refer to which is a schematic diagram of a communication device according to an example of the present invention. The communication device can be a client CT or the network shown in but is not limited herein. The communication device may include a processor such as a microprocessor or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a storage unit and a communication interfacing unit . The storage unit may be any data storage device that can store a program code accessed by the processor . Examples of the storage unit include but are not limited to a subscriber identity module SIM read only memory ROM flash memory random access memory RAM CD ROM DVD ROM magnetic tape hard disk and optical data storage device. The communication interfacing unit is preferably a transceiver and can exchange signals with a client CT or the network according to processing results of the processor .

Please refer to which is a flowchart of a process according to an example of the present invention. The process is utilized in a client CT or the network shown in for converging a plurality of communication standards. The process may be compiled into the program code and includes the following steps 

Step Provide a medium access control MAC abstraction sub layer wherein the MAC abstraction sub layer is arranged between an upper layer and a plurality of MAC layers of the plurality of communication standards.

Step Provide a corresponding service management entity SME between the MAC abstraction sub layer and the plurality of MAC layers and a plurality of physical PHY layers of the plurality of communication standards in a control plane.

According to the process the MAC abstraction sub layer is provided and is arranged between the upper layer and the plurality of MAC layers of the plurality of communication standards. Then the corresponding SME is arranged between the MAC abstraction sub layer and the plurality of MAC layers and the plurality of PHY layers of the plurality of communication standards in the control plane. Further the MAC abstraction sub layer communicates with the plurality of MAC layers and the plurality of PHY layers in the control plane via the corresponding SME and the corresponding SME communicates with the MAC abstraction sub layer via an application programming interface API . In other words the MAC abstraction sub layer and the plurality of MAC layers are combined as a new MAC layer for the plurality of PHY layers of the plurality of communication standards. Besides SMEs and APIs are provided as bridges and interfaces between the MAC abstraction sub layer and the plurality of communication standards in the control plane. Therefore not only redundant codes and redundant circuits can be avoided but the client CT and the network can be set up more easily due to the arrangement of the MAC abstraction sub layer. In comparison an independent module is needed in the prior art for comprising an upper layer a MAC layer and a PHY layer of a communication standard to process signalings and packets conforming to the communication standard. When modules of multiple communication standards are installed in the client CT and the network according to the prior art not only the redundant codes and the redundant circuits are required but it is inconvenient to setup the client CT and the network due to various parameters corresponding to the multiple communication standards.

Please note that detail of the MAC abstraction sub layer can be defined according to the communication device in which the MAC abstraction sub layer is installed and the plurality of MAC layers it is connected with and is not limited as long as signalings and packets between the upper layer and the plurality of MAC layers can be properly processed. For example please refer to which is a schematic diagram of a protocol stack according to an example of the present invention. is used for illustrating a data plane of the protocol stack . The protocol stack includes an upper layer a MAC abstraction sub layer a plurality of MAC layers and a plurality of PHY layers. The plurality of MAC layers include an 802.3 MAC an 802.11 MAC a 1901 MAC and a MoCA MAC conforming to the IEEE 802.3 standard the IEEE 802.11 standard the IEEE 1901 standard and the MoCA standard respectively. Further each of the plurality of MAC layers includes a service access point SAP in the data plane such that the MAC abstraction sub layer can communicate with the plurality of MAC layers via the SAPs of the plurality of MAC layers respectively. For example when there is a packet arriving at the 802.11 MAC the MAC abstraction sub layer receives the packet via the SAP of the 802.11 MAC. Alternatively when there is a packet arriving at the MAC abstraction sub layer and is needed to be transmitted via the 1901 MAC the MAC abstraction sub layer transmits the packet via the SAP of the 1901 MAC to the 1901 MAC. On the other hand the plurality of PHY layers include an 802.3 PHY an 802.11 PHY a 1901 PHY and a MoCA PHY conforming to the IEEE 802.3 standard the IEEE 802.11 standard the IEEE 1901 standard and the MoCA standard respectively. The upper layer can be a network layer a transport layer an application layer or any layer responsible for processing the signalings and the packets received from the MAC abstraction sub layer and the signalings and the packets to be transmitted via the MAC abstraction sub layer . In short detail realization of the protocol stack depends on a type of the communication device in which the protocol stack is installed and the communication standards to which the protocol stack is needed to conform and those skilled in the art should readily make modifications or alterations accordingly.

Please refer to which is a schematic diagram of a protocol stack according to an example of the present invention. is derived from and is used for illustrating a control plane of the protocol stack . Besides only protocol layers corresponding to the IEEE 802.11 and the IEEE 1901 are shown in for illustration. In practice standards to be converged are not limited to the standards illustrated above. Similar to the protocol stack the protocol stack includes an upper layer a MAC abstraction sub layer two MAC layers e.g. an 802.11 MAC and a 1901 MAC and two PHY layers e.g. an 802.11 PHY and a 1901 PHY . Functions of these protocol layers can be referred to the above and are not narrated for simplicity. Further the protocol stack includes an 802.11 SME and a 1901 SME for processing control signalings corresponding to the IEEE 802.11 and the IEEE 1901 respectively. The 802.11 SME is arranged between the MAC abstraction sub layer and the 802.11 MAC and the 802.11 PHY and the 1901 SME is arranged between the MAC abstraction sub layer and the 1901 MAC and the 1901 PHY. Therefore the MAC abstraction sub layer can communicate e.g. control or respond with the 802.11 MAC and the 802.11 PHY via the 802.11 SME. Similarly the MAC abstraction sub layer can communicate e.g. control or respond with the 1901 MAC and the 1901 PHY via the 1901 SME.

Preferably an 802.11 MAC sub layer management entity MLME is arranged between the 802.11 SME and the 802.11 MAC e.g. as an interface or a tunnel such that the 802.11 SME and the 802.11 MAC can communicate with each other via the 802.11 MLME. Similarly an 802.11 physical sub layer management entity PLME is arranged between the 802.11 SME and the 802.11 PHY e.g. as an interface or a tunnel such that the 802.11 SME and the 802.11 PHY can communicate with each other via the 802.11 PLME. A 1901 MLME and a 1901 PLME are similarly arranged for the 1901 MAC and the 1901 PHY and details can be referred to the above description. Besides the MAC abstraction sub layer preferably communicates with the 802.11 SME via an application programming interface API and the MAC abstraction sub layer preferably communicates with the 1901 SME via the API.

As mentioned above detail of the MAC abstraction sub layer is not limited as long as the signalings and the packets between the upper layer and the plurality of MAC layers can be properly processed. For example please refer to which is a schematic diagram of a MAC abstraction sub layer according to an example of the present invention. The MAC abstraction sub layer can be used for realizing the MAC abstraction sub layer and the MAC abstraction sub layer and includes a MAC table and three MAC layers e.g. an 802.3 MAC an 802.11 MAC and a 1901 MAC . The MAC table includes a MAC address field and a MAC type field for storing a MAC address and a MAC type of a packet respectively. A relation between the MAC address and the MAC type is established. That is when the MAC abstraction sub layer needs to transmit a packet via a MAC layer of a communication standard the MAC abstraction sub layer checks a destination address of the packet and determines a MAC type of the destination address by looking up the MAC table . Then the MAC abstraction sub layer can transmit the packet via the MAC layer corresponding to the determined MAC type. In other words the MAC table indicates the MAC layer via which the packet should be transmitted to the MAC abstraction sub layer i.e. the MAC table indicates a communication standard to which the packet conforms to the MAC abstraction sub layer. For example the MAC abstraction sub layer prepares to transmit a packet with a destination address of yy yy yy yy yy yy. After checking the MAC table the MAC abstraction sub layer can determine that the destination address of yy yy yy yy yy yy corresponds to the IEEE 802.11 i.e. WiFi . Then the MAC abstraction sub layer transmits the packet via the 802.11 MAC without flooding the packet via all the MAC layers. Therefore the MAC abstraction sub layer does not need to flood the packet via multiple MAC layers. Not only network resources can be saved but network congestion due to the flooding can be avoided.

Please note that a MAC table is used for indicating a MAC layer or a communication standard for transmitting a packet and a method based on which the MAC table is realized or established is not limited. For example please refer to which is a communication system according to an example of the present invention. The communication system is briefly composed of a MAC abstraction sub layer a client CT and a client CT. In detail functions and features of the MAC abstraction sub layer and the MAC abstraction sub layer are the same except that a MAC table of the MAC abstraction sub layer is empty and is needed to be established. Further the MAC abstraction sub layer may be installed in any network equipment such as a server a gateway a router or a bridge and is not limited herein. Besides the client CT communicates with other entities via the IEEE 802.3 and has an MAC address of xx xx xx xx xx xx the client CT communicates with other entities via the IEEE 1901 and has an MAC address of zz zz zz zz zz zz. When the MAC abstraction sub layer receives a packet with a source address of xx xx xx xx xx xx and a destination address of zz zz zz zz zz zz transmitted by the client CT via the 802.3 MAC the MAC abstraction sub layer checks if the source address and its MAC type e.g. the IEEE 802.3 are stored and related in the MAC table . If no the MAC abstraction sub layer stores and relates xx xx xx xx xx xx and the IEEE 802.3 in the MAC table as shown in the first row of . Before transmitting the packet the MAC abstraction sub layer checks if the destination address and its MAC type e.g. the IEEE 1901 are stored and related in the MAC table . If yes the MAC abstraction sub layer transmits the packet via the 1901 MAC and network resource is used efficiently. If no the MAC abstraction sub layer floods the packet via the MAC layers. Please note that the MAC abstraction sub layer floods the packet via all the MAC layers except the 802.3 MAC corresponding to the source address in . However the MAC abstraction sub layer may also flood the packet via all the MAC layers and is not limited herein.

As shown in which illustrates operation of the communication system after the client CT receives the packet the client CT replies an acknowledgement packet with a source address of zz zz zz zz zz zz and a destination address of xx xx xx xx xx xx to the client CT via the MAC abstraction sub layer . When the MAC abstraction sub layer receives the acknowledgement packet the MAC abstraction sub layer checks if the source address of the acknowledgement packet and its MAC type e.g. the IEEE 1901 are stored and related in the MAC table . If no the MAC abstraction sub layer stores and relates zz zz zz zz zz zz and the IEEE 1901 in the MAC table as shown in the second row of the MAC table of . Before transmitting the packet the MAC abstraction sub layer checks if the destination address and its MAC type e.g. the IEEE 802.3 are stored and related in the MAC table . Since the destination address and its MAC type are stored in the first row of the MAC table the MAC abstraction sub layer can transmit the acknowledgement packet without the flooding. Since the MAC addresses and the MAC types of the clients CT and CT are stored in the MAC table after initial transmissions the MAC abstraction sub layer can transmit packets even transmitted by other clients targeting to these MAC addresses without the flooding in later transmissions. Therefore not only network resources can be saved but network congestion due to the flooding can be avoided.

Please note that the MAC table mentioned above is only an example for realizing the MAC abstraction sub layer according to the present invention and is not a necessary feature of the MAC abstraction sub layer. Besides the abovementioned steps of the processes including suggested steps can be realized by means that could be a hardware a firmware known as a combination of a hardware device and computer instructions and data that reside as read only software on the hardware device or an electronic system. Examples of hardware can include analog digital and mixed circuits known as microcircuit microchip or silicon chip. Examples of the electronic system can include a system on chip SOC system in package SiP a computer on module COM and the communication device .

To sum up the present invention provides a method and related communication device for a MAC abstraction sub layer and a MAC table to efficiently converge multiple communication standards. Therefore when modules of the multiple communication standards are installed in clients and a network not only codes and circuits for realizing the multiple communication standards can be simplified but it is convenient to setup the clients and the network due to MAC abstraction sub layer. Besides network resources can be saved and network congestion due to the flooding can be avoided by using the MAC table.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

