---

title: Optical IO interconnect having a WDM architecture and CDR clock sharing receiver
abstract: Systems and methods may provide for an optical module including an optical demultiplexer to receive a wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) signal from a single receive optical fiber and separate the WDM signal into a plurality of optical signals. Additionally, the optical module may include a receiver conversion unit to convert the plurality of optical signals into a corresponding plurality of electrical signals. In addition, the optical module may include a buffer chip having a single clock and data recovery (CDR) module to recover a clock from a designated signal in the plurality of electrical signals and distribute the recovered clock to a plurality of data lanes corresponding to the plurality of electrical signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09337939&OS=09337939&RS=09337939
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09337939
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
This invention was made with Government support under H98230 10 9 0021 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments generally relate to input output IO interconnects. More particularly embodiments relate to optical IO interconnects having a wavelength division multiplexed WDM architecture and clock and data recovery CDR clock sharing receiver.

As input output IO interconnect speeds continue to increase in server links such as processor to processor processor to memory and peripheral IO connections link distances may be limited by signal integrity SI concerns. Indeed link distance limitations can be particularly challenging in datacenters and high performance computing HPC systems in which large scale IO connectivity is needed between servers routers and switches.

While optical IO interconnects may alleviate distance constraints to a certain extent there remains considerable room for improvement. For example a conventional optical serial link may be based on a parallel architecture carrying N bit data lanes over N number of optical fiber strands in each direction wherein skew between the data lanes of the end to end optical link can be considerably large and or unpredictable due to variations in fiber manufacturing and assembly processes. As a result each receiver lane may use a clock and data recovery CDR module to recover the clock of the lane in question so that data may be correctly latched in the receiver. The use of N CDR modules in the receiver however may lead to increased power consumption which can be a significant concern in large scale computing architectures such as datacenters and HPC systems.

Turning now to a system is shown. In the illustrated example a first server rack includes a first chassis with a plurality of blades wherein each blade may have a computing platform with various components such as processors IO modules memory devices system on chip SoC chipsets and so forth. The first server rack may also include a second chassis having a plurality of blades wherein each blade may also include a computing platform. The illustrated system also includes a second server rack having chassis with respective blades computing platforms components etc. The system may therefore be part of a large scale computing architecture capable of functioning as a datacenter high performance computing HPC system and so forth.

As will be discussed in greater detail optical input output IO interconnects may be used to link the components of the system IO together. In the illustrated example the blade of the second chassis is connected to the blade of the second chassis via a high speed optical interconnect . Additionally the blade of the second chassis may be connected to the blade of the first chassis via a high speed optical interconnect . Moreover the blade of the first chassis might be connected to a blade of the chassis in the second server rack via a high speed optical interconnect . Thus the use of the optical interconnect inside the chassis the use of the optical interconnect inside the first server rack and the use of the optical interconnect between the first server rack and the second server rack may represent a set of very short reach VSR applications that support IO communications inside a chassis e.g. 

The first agent uses a first optical module to transmit and receive the WDM signals and the second agent uses a second optical module to transmit and receive the WDM signals in the illustrated example. In general each optical module may include a buffer chip a transmitter conversion unit a receiver conversion unit and an optics interface . As will be discussed in greater detail the use of a single optical fiber in each direction can significantly reduce variability in the effective group index of the optical fibers which can in turn reduce the maximum lane to lane skew in the N bit wide electrical signals to be provided to the agents . Moreover a receiver portion of the buffer chips may use a single clock and data recovery CDR module to recover a clock from one of the channels data lanes and distribute the recovered clock to the other data lanes.

Turning now to the optical module is shown in greater detail wherein the illustrated optical module is coupled to the agent via an electrical link . The optics interface to the optical fibers may generally have a receiver portion and a transmitter portion . In the illustrated example the receiver portion includes an optical demultiplexer configured to receive a first WDM signal from the receive optical fiber and separate the first WDM signal into a first plurality of optical signals. The first WDM signal may be generated by another optical module such as the optical module coupled to the other end of the receive optical fiber . Moreover the first WDM signal might contain wavelength content such as the content shown in the plot with respect to N optical channels. The illustrated receiver conversion unit includes a plurality of photodetectors coupled to the optical demultiplexer as well as a corresponding plurality of receiver integrated circuits ICs that may include transimpedance and limiting amplifiers coupled to the plurality of photodetectors and the buffer chip . Thus the receiver conversion unit may convert the first plurality of optical signals into a corresponding first plurality of electrical signals and provide the first plurality of electrical signals to the buffer chip .

Of particular note is that the buffer chip may have a single CDR module to recover a clock from a designated signal in the first plurality of electrical signals and distribute the recovered clock to the plurality of data lanes corresponding to the first plurality of electrical signals. The elimination of the remaining CDRs for the other data lanes can significantly reduce power consumption in the optical module . As will be discussed in greater detail the use of WDM to combine all optical signals on to the single optical fiber can reduce the maximum lane to lane skew of the first plurality of electrical signals because the relative effective group index variation over a particular wavelength range may remain almost unchanged in any given single optical fiber such as the optical fiber

In the illustrated example each data lane includes a receive buffer coupled to the receiver conversion unit and a transmit buffer coupled to the receive buffer wherein the transmit buffer may transmit a corresponding electrical signal to the agent via the electrical link e.g. circuit board traces . Additionally the buffer chip may include a clock distribution buffer arrangement coupled to the output of the CDR module and the plurality of data lanes. The clock distribution buffer arrangement may provide for effective data latching into the receive buffers .

The buffer chip may also include another receive buffer to receive a second plurality of electrical signals from the agent and a phase locked loop PLL coupled to the receive buffer in order to re time the incoming data from the agent . Accordingly the optical module may also include a transmitter conversion unit that converts the second plurality of electrical signals into a second plurality of optical signals wherein the transmitter portion can include an optical multiplexer to combine the second plurality of optical signals and transmit a second WDM signal onto the single transmit optical fiber based on the second plurality of optical signals. In one example the transmitter conversion unit includes a modulator driver coupled to the receive buffer and a light source e.g. modulated laser to generate the second plurality of optical signals based on the re timed second plurality of electrical signals. The aforementioned first optical module may be constructed similarly to the illustrated second optical module .

Assuming that the incoming N bit lanes from the first agent are re timed by the first optical module the maximum lane to lane skew T of the end to end optical link may primarily be determined by the propagation delay difference between N optical channels over the single optical fiber . For a finite fiber distance the propagation delay T of each wavelength channel can be given as follows 1 

where L is the optical fiber length c is the speed of light and Neff is the effective group index of the optical fiber at wavelength .

For example shows a maximum skew curve for various optical fiber link lengths in an example implementation in which an operating wavelength of 1300 50 nm i.e. 100 nm optical bandwidth is selected and the effective group index variation is relatively small. In the illustrated example the maximum permitted skew between N data lanes at the receiver is 1 32 UI unit interval say 2.60 ps 1.95 ps 1.25 ps and 0.98 ps at data rates of 12 Gbps 16 Gbps 25 Gbps and 32 Gbps per lane respectively. The achievable fiber link length would therefore be greater than ten meters at 25 Gbps and approximately nine meters at 32 Gbps. Thus for shorter than three meter usages e.g. inside a chassis and intra rack interconnects data rates of greater than 32 Gbps may be realized in the example shown.

Of particular note is that a conventional solution in which N optical fibers are used for N channels fiber to fiber manufacturing variations would lead to substantially higher skew due to much greater variability in the effective group index. Simply put using a single receive optical fiber and providing the WDM signal with a wavelength range in which the effective group index associated with the optical fiber is substantially constant can facilitate efficient clock recovery by a single CDR module for all channels. The use of a single CDR module in the receiver may provide significant power savings. Moreover such an approach may result in the electrical signals of the receiver having a maximum skew that is primarily a function of the wavelength range of the WDM signal and the length of the optical fiber. Accordingly high data rate applications may be implemented in very short reach settings.

Embodiments may therefore include an optical module having an optical demultiplexer to receive a first WDM signal from a single receive optical fiber and separate the first WDM signal into a first plurality of optical signals. The optical module may also have a receiver conversion unit to convert the first plurality of optical signals into a corresponding first plurality of electrical signals. Additionally the optical module can have a buffer chip with a single CDR module to recover a clock from a designated signal in the first plurality of electrical signals and distribute the recovered clock to a plurality of data lanes corresponding to the first plurality of electrical signals.

Embodiments may also include a method in which a first WDM signal is received from a single receive optical fiber and the first WDM signal is separated into a first plurality of optical signals. The method can also provide for converting the first plurality of optical signals into a corresponding plurality of electrical signals and using a single CDR module to recover a clock from a designated signal in the first plurality of electrical signals. In addition the recovered clock may be distributed to a plurality of data lanes corresponding to the first plurality of electrical signals.

Embodiments may also include a system having a first optical fiber and a first computing system coupled to first end of the first optical fiber wherein the first computing platform is to transmit a first WDM signal onto the first optical fiber. The system can also have a second computing platform coupled to a second end of the first optical fiber wherein the second computing platform includes an agent and an optical module. The optical module may include an optical demultiplexer to receive the first WDM signal from the first optical fiber and separate the first WDM signal into a first plurality of optical signals. The optical module can also include a receiver conversion unit to convert the first plurality of optical signals into a corresponding first plurality of electrical signals. Additionally the optical module may include a buffer chip with a single CDR module to recover a clock from a designated signal in the first plurality of electrical signals and distribute the recovered clock to a plurality of data lanes corresponding to the first plurality of electrical signals.

Techniques described herein may therefore address concerns regarding energy efficiency as well as cable management in HPC systems having massive data flow. Potential usages may include but are not limited to high speed connectivity from a chassis to a top of the rack TOR switch and between TOR switches inside datacenters. Moreover space and thermal constraints may be alleviated in a wide variety of platforms. Additionally blade usages e.g. central processing unit CPU to general purpose graphics processing unit GPGPU blade for thermal and extended memory architectures e.g. for distance may also benefit from the techniques described herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are applicable for use with all types of semiconductor integrated circuit IC chips. Examples of these IC chips include but are not limited to processors controllers chipset components programmable logic arrays PLAs memory chips network chips systems on chip SoCs SSD NAND controller ASICs and the like. In addition in some of the drawings signal conductor lines are represented with lines. Some may be different to indicate more constituent signal paths have a number label to indicate a number of constituent signal paths and or have arrows at one or more ends to indicate primary information flow direction. This however should not be construed in a limiting manner. Rather such added detail may be used in connection with one or more exemplary embodiments to facilitate easier understanding of a circuit. Any represented signal lines whether or not having additional information may actually comprise one or more signals that may travel in multiple directions and may be implemented with any suitable type of signal scheme e.g. digital or analog lines implemented with differential pairs optical fiber lines and or single ended lines.

Example sizes models values ranges may have been given although embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the same. As manufacturing techniques e.g. photolithography mature over time it is expected that devices of smaller size could be manufactured. In addition well known power ground connections to IC chips and other components may or may not be shown within the figures for simplicity of illustration and discussion and so as not to obscure certain aspects of the embodiments of the invention. Further arrangements may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the invention and also in view of the fact that specifics with respect to implementation of such block diagram arrangements are highly dependent upon the platform within which the embodiment is to be implemented i.e. such specifics should be well within purview of one skilled in the art. Where specific details e.g. circuits are set forth in order to describe example embodiments of the invention it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention can be practiced without or with variation of these specific details. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

The term coupled may be used herein to refer to any type of relationship direct or indirect between the components in question and may apply to electrical mechanical fluid optical electromagnetic electromechanical or other connections. In addition the terms first second etc. are used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated. Moreover any use of the terms first second etc. does not limit the embodiments discussed to the number of components listed.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

