---

title: Electro-mechanical fuze for hand grenades
abstract: A safety fuze includes a magneto striker generator (MSG) as its a power generation source. The MSG provides energy to energize an electronic unit and a safety and arming device. The safety fuze allows safety and arming of military hand grenades, with a fully out-of-line explosive initiator and an integrated power generation means, for improving safety and performance. The MSG includes a striker and a receiving bobbin that houses a conductive coil. The striker comprises a permanent magnet that is mounted on a pivot mechanism for allowing a rotational displacement of the permanent magnet, into the bobbin, in order to generate an electrical current. As the permanent magnet is being inserted inside the bobbin, the magnetic flux change induces an electric current in the coil, creating the necessary energy for the fuze operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887640&OS=08887640&RS=08887640
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08887640
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120910
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates in general to the field of munitions. More specifically this invention relates to electro mechanical safety fuzes for hand emplaced grenades for military and commercial uses. In particular the present electro mechanical safety fuze allows safety and arming of military hand grenades with a fully out of line explosive initiator and an integrated power generation means for improving safety and performance.

Safety is a very important design aspect of a hand grenade fuze. Fuze designs account for a time delay period from initiation for the detonation to occur in order to ensure that the grenade is cast outside the explosion hazard area. As a result it is essential that this time delay does not run short and be precisely controlled.

Some of the current hand grenades employ a simple chemical powder delay column to effect a timing delay before function which is permanently in line with a primer explosive element and a detonator high explosive fill creating a potential safety hazard and the ability for unintended initiation of the device. For example overheating due to inflammation or primer functions at low temperatures. In addition this method of fuzing does not offer a very accurate repeatable delay time across many units due to hygroscopic effects on the powder and poorly controlled delay column densities.

Conventional mechanical time delay fuzes are either operated by a spring or a pyrotechnic delay element. However these mechanical delay fuzes present numerous inherent problems including but not limited to the inability to be stored for an extended period of time inconsistent timing to detonation dependency on temperature susceptibility to aging subject to manufacturing inaccuracy.

Conventional electric time delay mechanisms have been designed to overcome the problems associated with the mechanical time delay mechanisms. These electric time delay mechanisms generally included an electric energy source and an electronic delay circuit. Even though these electric time delay circuits have proven to be more reliable than their mechanical counterparts they in turn present inherent disadvantages. As an example the electric time delay mechanisms are predisposed to unintended electrical activation that can lead to the premature and unintentional detonation of the hand grenade.

What is therefore needed is a fuze design that overcomes the aforementioned problems associated with the conventional in line primer to detonator mechanical and electrical time delay mechanisms and yet still fits within the existing hand grenades designs with minimal manufacturing variances in order to maintain the same user directions and training as for existing hand grenades. Prior to the advent of the present invention the need for such a fuze design has heretofore remained unsatisfied. The minimal manufacturing variances are important in order to allow the use of conventional manufacturing such as molding machining etc. and further to minimize changes to the assembly lines.

The present invention satisfies this need and describes an electro mechanical fuze primarily for use in military hand grenade applications but not limited thereto with potential applications in civilian commercial and aerospace systems . The present fuze incorporates interrelated mechanical and electronic safety logic for reliability and safety introduces an initially out of line firetrain and electronic timing such that safety and reliability will be increased as compared to the existing state of the art hand grenade fuze.

The inventive fuze incorporates several important concepts among which are the following. The fuze includes an electronic fuze architecture that allows for selectable accurate time delay or impact function. Power can be provided to the fuze in a variety of different ways such as a magneto striker generator MSG . Power could also be provided to the fuze by means of a piezoelectric striker generator PSG .

Additionally a safety and arming device is incorporated in the present design. Preferably the safety and arming device is of the type described in the co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 411 918 titled MEMS Based Electromechanical Safety and Arming Device for Non Inertial and Non Spin Applications which was filed on Mar. 5 2012 and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The safety and arming device includes a moveable component in a microscale firetrain which isolates all primer sensitive explosives from being in line with the secondary insensitive detonating explosives. When armed the safety and arming device is initiated builds from a deflagrating spot charge to a detonating output at the output end of the safety and arming device assembly and allows for increased safety of the hand grenade during storage transport and scenarios not intended to cause function.

When the present fuze is used in military applications it must satisfy the requirements placed on fielded hand grenades by the US Military. To this end the fuze may utilize existing safety components such as the safety pin and safety lever while introducing a novel safety and arming device that was not previously used in military hand grenades. The additional features found in the fuze device allow for a wide range of potential applications e.g. allowing grenades to function on impact function on an impact time delay function after a time delay function on enemy pickup etc. while increasing safety.

The present design enables the use of several sensors that can be used to control the operation of the fuze. The present fuze can include a capacitive sensor that is commonly used found for example in cell phones to detect the proximity of the user s face to the cell phone. The capacitive sensor could be integrated within the fuze to function when the enemy tries to pick up the hand grenade and throw it back.

In addition to the added safety the integration of the present fuze design in an existing hand striker body is transparent to the end user in terms of appearance means of operation performance and handling characteristics. This transparent integration is important in that if numerous external changes were made to the grenade entirely new training regimen would be necessary to effectively communicate the operation of fuze to the military personnel and thus greatly increasing cost to deploy the system.

To this end the present fuze generally includes a power generation source such as a magneto striker generator an electronic unit and a non inertial safety and arming S A device. The MSG provides energy to energize the electronics unit and the safety and arming device.

The MSG generally includes a striker and a receiving bobbin that houses a conductive coil. The striker comprises a permanent magnet or magnetic block that is mounted on a pivot mechanism such as for example the spring activated striker mechanism on many currently fielded military hand grenades for allowing a rotational displacement of the permanent magnet into the bobbin in order to generate an electrical current.

When the fuze is in a safe deactivated state the fuze is deactivated and the grenade is safe to handle in that the fuze does not generate any power and the S A keeps the firetrain out of line until arming. Upon MSG function and subsequent fuze energizing the fuze circuit will command the MEMS S A to remove its safety locks and subsequently under an applied magnetic field become in line and ready to detonate.

Once the MSG is set in motion assuming a spring loaded pivot mechanism is employed the striker is released from its normally secure position and the fuze enters an unarmed but activated state. The fuze remains unarmed until a predetermined period e.g. approximately 20 milliseconds before detonation. The striker pivots around a pivot point propelling the permanent magnet therealong until the permanent magnet is inserted into the receiving bobbin. The relative motion of the permanent magnet to the conductive bobbin coils induces an electric current to flow within the coils thereby energizing the electronic unit. In turn the electronic unit uses an intrinsic logic circuit to initiate the explosive train when desired.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the fuze includes an alternative means for generating electrical power. Such alternative energy generation method include a piezoelectric striker generator PSG that replaces the MSG. The PSG could also utilize the motion of a pivoting element but instead of inserting a permanent magnet into a conductive coil a block with a predetermined mass would effect momentary impact with a piezoelectric element connected to the electronic unit to generate energy through impact and compression of the crystal.

Similar numerals refer to similar elements in the drawings. It should be understood that the sizes of the different components in the figures are not necessarily in exact proportion or to scale and are shown for visual clarity and for the purpose of explanation.

In this example and with further reference to the hand grenade generally includes a fuze which is secured to a grenade body as well as manual safety devices such as a safety pin and a safety lever that are secured to a fuze body . The hand grenade contains and houses the fuze so that its presence is transparent to the user.

In a preferred embodiment the fuze includes a power generation source such as a magneto striker generator an electronic unit and a non inertial safety and arming device .

The MSG 200 provides energy to energize the electronics unit and the safety and arming device . The MSG 200 generally includes a striker and a receiving bobbin that houses a conductive coil . The striker comprises a permanent magnet or magnetic block that is mounted on a pivot mechanism for allowing a rotational displacement of the permanent magnet into the bobbin in order to generate an electrical current or power . To this end the exemplary embodiment illustrates the pivot mechanism as including a spring or elastic element that attaches at one end to the permanent magnet and that is secured at its other end to a striker pivot point .

When the fuze is in a safe deactivated state the spring is in a helical torsion configuration though it is not limited to such configuration and is disposed within and preferably completely housed inside the safety lever while the bobbin is remotely located within the fuze body . In this state the fuze is deactivated and the grenade is safe to handle since the fuze does not generate any power and the striker keeps the firetrain out of line until arming.

Once the MSG 200 is set in motion by the release of the striker from its normally secure position the fuze enters an activated state and will arm after a time delay . As illustrated in the spring rotates around the striker pivot point in the direction of the arrow A propelling the permanent magnet to rotate therealong through its range of motion of approximately 250 degrees of rotation until the permanent magnet is rapidly inserted into the bobbin . The rotary motion of the permanent magnet inside the bobbin induces an electric current to flow within the conductive coil or winding thereby energizing the electronic unit . In turn the electronic unit uses an intrinsic logic circuit to initiate the explosive train when desired.

The safety and arming device is preferably fabricated using micro machining or MEMS technology e.g. lithography plating and molding to obtain the desired precision and micron scale tolerances thus allowing for the safety and arming of the hand grenade . As explained for example in the co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 411 918 the safety and arming device effects the arming of the fuze through the movement of an internal mechanism the motion of which aligns a micro scale firetrain which when initiated will propagate through an output charge causing the main explosive charge encased within the grenade to function.

In addition to the aforementioned components the fuze also includes a mechanical assembly to align all of the components in the desired orientation required for the operation of the hand grenade . This alignment is magnetically driven by closely positioning of the magnet next to the safe and arming device .

The use of the electro mechanical fuze allows safety and arming of the hand grenade utilizing miniaturized and advanced electronic circuitry and logic in various military and commercial applications. Additionally the micro scale manufacturing techniques utilized in the non inertial or equivalent safety and arming device permit munition fuze designers to place the fuze inside the existing small volume of a standard military hand grenade safety lever .

The incorporation of advanced electronics and logic circuits in the fuze where such placement was previously not possible due to size and power limitations permits accurate timing more accurate impact sensing and subsequently greater safety than for example pyrotechnic powder delay column fuzes.

Moreover safety is a paramount design goal of the fuze . A conventional hand grenade typically has a normally in line explosive train that is composed of sensitive primary and insensitive secondary explosives. The present fuze allows for the replacement of the in line explosive train through the safety and arming device with a normally out of line system thus increasing safety.

The safety of the safety and arming device of the fuze is derived from the selective mechanical and electro mechanical logic that is intrinsic to the design of the fuze . Predetermined external inputs are used as triggers for the devices arming actions and inputs that do not match those required in the proper sequence result in one of two outcomes 

a The mechanical logic elements may partially respond to the inputs and then reset to their original safe unarmed position by a bias unarming spring or elastic element the fuze can still be armed later if the proper input is seen later or

b The mechanical logic elements may partially respond to the inputs and due to the out of sequence or improper nature of the inputs the mechanical elements may finish in a failed safe condition. The fuze will not operate unless the correct sequence of mechanical logic elements function is found.

The electronic unit includes components such as a timer logic circuitry a processor and sensors that are either known or available in the field of the application to provide the logic necessary for processes such as the operation of advanced sensors timing logic operations and initiation of the firetrain intrinsic to the operation of the fuze .

From the manufacturing stage to the point of use the hand grenade fuze will experience diverse dynamic and inertial inputs. The inertial inputs include for example impacts accelerations and a spectrum of vibration inputs resulting from the manufacturing imposed loads in the factory manual handling inspection packaging freight loading transportation storage and logistical deployment. The fuze is designed to reject all such inputs and combinations thereof up to but not including the inputs desired for operation. The fuze will also reject logistical acceleration inputs such as impacts so far as arming is concerned again because of the mechanical logic intrinsic to the safety and arming device .

The fuze may initiate its lead charge under high temperature cookoff but it will fail safe i.e. will not detonate due to its MEMS S A out of line nature. In addition if the fuze is hit with a bullet or another object that penetrates the fuze body the fuze will fail safe.

As an example during the course of intended operation the fuze may encounter environmental conditions or designated inputs that the designer wishes to use as triggers for fuze arming. For illustration a hand grenade equipped with the fuze may require a soldier to pull the safety pin and to release the safety lever or handle in order to trigger an arming sequence followed by acceleration due to throwing of the grenade and potential impact with a target or non target object. Whatever the actions leading to the fuze receiving the desired inputs the outcome will always be the same the mechanical arming of the fuze .

The striker is not affected by the dynamic and inertial inputs because it is prevented from displacement from its resting or safe position by means of the safety lever . The electronic unit being devoid of moving parts is not generally affected by these inputs.

A process for the use and operation of the grenade and more specifically the fuze will now be described in connection with . The safety of the fuze is enhanced by the requirement that the arming of the fuze necessitates that the arming inputs occur in a specific sequence or order. The fuze electronic logic which is contained in the electronic unit combined with the safety and arming device allows only the correct inputs in the correct order to effect the arming of the fuze and to allow it to function.

The process or logic of operation of the fuze is preferably but not necessarily programmed into the electronics circuit to control the interaction of the fuze with the other fuze components and its environment.

The present notional grenade includes two safety locks the safety pin or ring and the safety lever . Both of these safety locks may be retained from the existing art to help increase the operator familiarity with the system operation and safety. If as shown in blocks and either of these safety locks were to be removed unintentionally leaving the other in place the device would remain safe for the user. Additionally if the primary explosive in the grenade were unintentionally set off while the fuze is still in a safe state the explosion would not propagate through the explosive train leaving the grenade safe to the operator. As a result the present fuze presents a significant advantage in its ability to keep the operator or user safe from unintended grenade function.

With reference to the sequential removal of the safety pin or ring at block and the release of the hand grenade lever at block cause the striker to pivot in position within the bobbin in order to generate electrical energy block as explained earlier.

The generation of the electrical energy at block causes as an example two energy storage capacitors to divide up the energy generated on separate circuits a circuit dedicated to timing and or impact sensing and a circuit isolated from the timing circuit that detonates the hand grenade. The arming energy storage is generally comprised of a diode rectification scheme and a storage capacitor and the detonator energy storage is similar to the arming energy storage .

The arming energy storage stores potential energy generated at block and awaits the removal of the second S A safety lock block . The removal of the second S A safety lock block in combination with the arming energy storage block enable the safety and arming device at block .

The first S A safety lock block and the second S A safety lock block are preferably similar in design and function. The removal of the first safety lock block allows a slight travel of the MEMS S A and to engage the second safety lock block . Both S A safety locks blocks are both removed by a pyrotechnic charge that creates positive pressure gas in the locks cavities causing the locks to rotate and plastically deform into the unlocked position. The removal of the two locks blocks allows for the striker effectuated by a magnetic field to translate into the armed state.

The next step in the operation of the fuze is illustrated by two alternative inputs to the fuze either an optional impact of the grenade with a target block or a time delay trigger block that are shown diagrammatically inputted to an OR gate . If the impact input occurs as sensed by a sensor block then an impact switch which forms part of the electronic unit will close block setting off the detonator in the grenade block . If on the other hand the delay timer is detected block then the impact switch is bypassed and the detonator is set off at the end of the timer period block .

Although the detonator function is activated block the detonator itself is not energized by the energy stored at the detonator energy storage block . Once the following three conditions are satisfied 1 the detonator function is active block 2 the S A is armed block and 3 the energy stored at the detonator energy storage block is available the fuze is activated block and the hand grenade detonates inline.

A preferred method of construction of the fuze is to use as many known or available existing components as possible for an intended application. This will result in decreased manufacturing costs compared to the construction of an entirely new fuze and increased familiarity to the end user.

To this end it would be possible to use a striker body that has been modified to accept the bobbin and the striker with machining operations such as boring a central column within the fuze body in order to create a cavity that accommodates the bobbin . The striker including the permanent magnet can be combined through methods such as but not limited to glue epoxy screwing staking and or machining as necessary. The permanent magnet can either be a solid circular disc or it can have any other suitable geometry such as square or rectangular. It can be hollow with a pressed rivet holding it to the spring . The permanent magnet material can be a rare earth metal formulation with a high coercive field such as NdFeB but is not limited thereto.

The electronics circuit can be manufactured from standard integrated circuit industry processes and may or may not be comprised of flexible connector cables and circuit boards.

The safety and arming device can be manufactured using a variety of manufacturing processes including but not limited to stamping die casting molding and sintering etc. Some parts can take advantage of MEMS techniques such as wafer based lithography plating and molding technology e.g. LIGA Llthographie Galvanoformung Abformung to achieve parts with vertical side walls smooth planar features faces and tight in plane dimensional tolerances on a micro scale e.g. on the order of 5 micrometers . The safety and arming device used in a given application will determine the applicable fabrication and integration requirements.

The fuze can be implemented at an arbitrary scale for example at a scale that is larger than the typical feature sizes found in military hand grenades. Such a fuze would have similar functions and features to those described herein except that working clearances might be significantly larger or different.

It should be understood that the fuze may include advanced sensors such as impact switches anti tamper switches acoustic sensors capacitive sensors and radio frequency or other electro magnetic or remote command signals.

Another embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in wherein a fuze includes an alternative means for generating electrical power. Such alternative energy generation method may include for example an impact activated battery or alternately a piezoelectric striker generator that replaces the MSG 200 with associated changes made to the fuze housing and electronics to incorporate the PSG 510. The PSG 510 could also utilize the motion of a striker but instead of inserting a permanent magnet into a conductive coil a block with a predetermined mass would impact a piezoelectric element connected to the electronic unit creating energy through the mechanical stress generated in the piezoelectric crystal.

As illustrated in upon releasing the safety pin the striker rotates around the pivot point so that the block strikes the piezoelectric element which is seated in a cavity that is defined in a striker body and rests within that cavity . The generated energy is stored and used as explained earlier in connection with the process of .

According to yet another embodiment the fuze utilizes a plurality of energy sources including but not limited to a reserve battery a magneto striker generator and or a piezoelectric striker generator.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined herein and equivalents thereof.

For example an additional independent safety feature could also be introduced that would allow the fuze electronics to be switched ON or OFF. A switch could be added externally to the fuze requiring user toggling. With the electronic unit switched OFF the release of the hand grenade safety lever and the resulting rotary motion of the striker would cause the fuze to not function dud . Conversely with the electronic unit switched ON the fuze would function as intended. This second independent safety feature could allow for the fuze to be fully compliant with MIL STD 1316 and STANAG 4187 military safety documents for Department of Defense Design Criteria Standard Fuze Design Safety Criteria and Fuzing Systems Safety Design Requirements respectively.

In addition to the above the implementation of self destruct or self neutralization functions and improved reliability would also be possible based on the electronic logic design and or the addition of other sensors devices.

In regard to military hardware the present inventive can improve fuze performance and reliability expand the field of applications for fuzes with electronic fuze circuits and sensors therefore increasing the safety to end users. In addition to military hardware potential commercial civilian application exist some of which are listed along with possible military applications below 

Certain aspects or features of the present invention for example the magneto striker generator can also be applied to other devices and applications wherein such a function is needed and need not be specifically referenced herein or associated with the other components of the inventive device. For example a children s toy may have a need to provide electrical energy to perform a task such as lighting a colored LED for entertainment of the child every time a MSG style mechanism is pulled back and released through its range of motion. Other sensors and sensor systems may have use of the present invention as well including trip wire sensors wherein a striker or other movable assembly is released by the severing of a holding mechanism and causes the movable element to insert a permanent magnet into a coil generating an electrical signal. Such implementations in whole or in part are included in the substance of this inventive device unless already covered in prior publications.

