---

title: Preemptive signature control for vehicle survivability planning
abstract: Systems and methods for improving vehicle survivability. In some embodiments, threat information relating to at least one potential threat against at least one vehicle during a mission may be accessed. The threat information may comprise threat location information indicative of at least one likely location for the at least one potential threat and at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat. Prior to commencing the mission, the threat information may be used to assign a numerical measure to each potential action of a plurality of potential actions for the at least one vehicle based at least in part on at least one measure of the at least one vehicle resulting from executing the potential action. The plurality of potential actions may be compared based at least in part on the respective numerical measures assigned to the plurality of potential actions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030347&OS=09030347&RS=09030347
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09030347
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
Military and non military vehicles moving through a hostile region may encounter multiple threats such as enemy vehicles ground troops and or artillery systems. Such threats may have weapon systems and may be equipped with multi spectral sensors for obtaining information about target vehicles. For instance a threat may be equipped with one or more passive sensors to obtain information about a target vehicle by detecting emissions from the target vehicle. An example of a passive sensor is an infrared IR sensor for detecting energy in the infrared band such as thermal radiation emitted by a target vehicle. A threat may also be equipped with one or more active sensors to obtain information about a target vehicle by irradiating the target vehicle with electromagnetic waves and detecting those waves that bounce back from the target vehicle. An example of an active sensor is a radar for transmitting and detecting radio frequency RF waves.

Threats may be located at known or unknown locations and may have known or unknown capabilities for detecting and attacking target vehicles. A survivability planning system may analyze known threats prior to the start of a mission to improve vehicle survivability. For example a survivability planning system may plan a safe route for a vehicle between a starting point and an ending point so as to avoid areas that are within detection and attack ranges of known threats.

Unknown threats for example those that pop up during a mission may be more challenging to defend against because a survivability planning system may lack sufficient time and information to automatically compute an optimal plan before a pop up threat engages a target vehicle. As a result conventional vehicles rely on human operators to decide when and where to position and route the vehicles with respect to pop up threats. Survivability of such a vehicle thus depends directly on the information an individual operator has regarding an area of operation locations of threats and each threat s detection and attack capabilities against the vehicle in the specific environment.

In some embodiments a method for improving vehicle survivability is disclosed. The method comprises accessing threat information relating to at least one potential threat against at least one vehicle during a mission the threat information comprising threat location information indicative of at least one likely location for the at least one potential threat the threat information further comprising at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat prior to commencing the mission using the threat information to assign a numerical measure to each potential action of a plurality of potential actions for the at least one vehicle the numerical measure being based at least in part on at least one measure of the at least one vehicle resulting from executing the potential action wherein the at least one measure is determined based at least in part on the at least one likely location of the at least one potential threat and the at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat and comparing the plurality of potential actions based at least in part on the respective numerical measures assigned to the plurality of potential actions.

In some embodiments a system for improving vehicle survivability is disclosed. The system comprising at least one processor programmed to access threat information relating to at least one potential threat against at least one vehicle during a mission the threat information comprising threat location information indicative of at least one likely location for the at least one potential threat the threat information further comprising at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat prior to commencing the mission use the threat information to assign a numerical measure to each potential action of a plurality of potential actions for the at least one vehicle the numerical measure being based at least in part on at least one measure of the at least one vehicle resulting from executing the potential action wherein the at least one measure is determined based at least in part on the at least one likely location of the at least one potential threat and the at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat and compare the plurality of potential actions based at least in part on the respective numerical measures assigned to the plurality of potential actions.

In some embodiments at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium is disclosed. The at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium stores processor executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform a method for improving vehicle survivability. The method comprises accessing threat information relating to at least one potential threat against at least one vehicle during a mission the threat information comprising threat location information indicative of at least one likely location for the at least one potential threat the threat information further comprising at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat prior to commencing the mission using the threat information to assign a numerical measure to each potential action of a plurality of potential actions for the at least one vehicle the numerical measure being based at least in part on at least one measure of the at least one vehicle resulting from executing the potential action wherein the at least one measure is determined based at least in part on the at least one likely location of the at least one potential threat and the at least one model associated with the at least one potential threat and comparing the plurality of potential actions based at least in part on the respective numerical measures assigned to the plurality of potential actions.

It should be appreciated that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts discussed in greater detail below provided such concepts are not mutually inconsistent are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. In particular all combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this disclosure are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that when a human operator attempts to determine how to respond to a pop up threat in a dynamic and high stress environment the human operator may not be able to take into account all factors that may impact vehicle survivability. Accordingly in some embodiments systems and methods are provided for automatically selecting one or more actions that may improve vehicle survivability in a multi threat environment. In some embodiments the selected actions may be presented to a human operator as recommendations. In alternative embodiments for example in an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV the selected actions may be automatically implemented to control the UAV.

In one aspect the inventors have recognized and appreciated that multiple factors may impact vehicle survivability including but not limited to vehicle speed altitude and aspect vehicle maneuverability threat lethality and detection capability against vehicle vehicle lethality and detection capability against threat geometry of vehicle relative to threat terrain conditions weather conditions mission objective and mission importance. Such factors either alone or in combination may affect a vehicle s abilities to detect a threat evade detection by the threat mitigate the threat using a countermeasure and survive an attack by the threat. Accordingly in some embodiments mechanisms may be provided by which a survivability planning system may take into account any suitable combination of factors in selecting an appropriate course of action for a vehicle. For example the survivability planning system may take into account information about one or more threats to the vehicle one or more signature exposure models associated with the vehicle relative to the one or more threats geometry of the vehicle and or the one or more threats situational data and various other types of information. In one implementation a survivability planning system may model a physical region as a collection of cells and may model movement of a vehicle through the physical region as a sequence of maneuvers between cells. The survivability planning system may assign to each maneuver a numerical measure indicative of how much positive or negative impact the maneuver may have on the overall survivability of the vehicle where the numerical measure may reflect any suitable combination of any of the aforementioned factors and other factors.

In another aspect the inventors have recognized and appreciated that a vehicle may be operated based at least in part on one or more signature exposure models associated with the vehicle. In some embodiments one or more signature exposure models associated with the vehicle may be used by a survivability planning system to select an appropriate course of action in view of one or more threats to the vehicle. A survivability planning system may use information about the one or more threats to identify one or more relevant signature exposure model associated with the vehicle and select an appropriate course of action for the vehicle based at least in part on the identified one or more signature exposure models. For example a survivability planning system may determine that the vehicle may be exposed to an enemy radar system or any other enemy sensor and in response may identify a signature exposure model indicative of how the vehicle may appear to the enemy radar system and select a maneuver for the vehicle to perform e.g. to orient vehicle in a particular way to reduce visibility of the vehicle to the enemy radar system.

In some embodiments a survivability planning system may select a course of action in response to a threat based on a stage of a vehicle s mission. A mission may have any of numerous stages including but not limited to a detection stage in which the vehicle may be detected by a threat a tracking stage in which the vehicle may be tracked by the threat a firing stage where a vehicle may be fired at and an impact stage where the vehicle may be hit. A survivability planning system may select different courses of action in each of these stages and may choose to weigh different factors in making the selection. For example in the detection stage a course of action may be selected to reduce exposure of the vehicle to an enemy sensor and in the firing stage a course of action may be selected to reduce probability of the vehicle being hit.

It should be appreciated that the survivability planning system may select a course of action in response to any suitable type of threat and more generally any reference to a threat herein may reference any suitable type of threat. For example the threat may be a military threat such as one or more military vehicles weapons sensors and or enemy ground troops. As another example the threat may be a threat in a commercial setting such as another vehicle e.g. a car a ship a motorcycle etc. or one or more people e.g. pedestrians near or on a collision course with the vehicle. Numerous other examples will be apparent to those skilled in the art. As such it is contemplated that embodiments of the present invention may operate in any of numerous environments including military and non military environments as aspects of the present invention are not limited in this respect.

In another aspect the inventors have recognized and appreciated that a vehicle may encounter multiple threats at the same time during a mission. These threats may have different capabilities and may be located at different locations so that an optimal strategy with respect to one threat may lead to undesirable outcomes with respect to another threat. Accordingly in some embodiments a survivability planning system may model and analyze a scenario in such a manner as to simultaneously take into account information regarding multiple threats thereby improving the vehicle s overall survivability. For example in one implementation a survivability planning system may assign multiple numerical measures to each potential action for a vehicle in a given scenario where each of the numerical measures may correspond to a different threat present in the scenario and may be indicative of a severity of the threat. Such individual numerical measures may be combined in any suitable way to obtain a combined numerical measure for use in selecting an appropriate course of action for the vehicle.

In yet another aspect the inventors have recognized and appreciated that the response time of a survivability planning system may be significantly improved by performing some computationally intensive analyses ahead of time for example by running scenario specific simulations prior to the start of a mission. Accordingly in some embodiments a survivability planning system may use not only situational data indicative of actual conditions under which a vehicle is operating but also simulation data obtained from off line simulations of various vehicle to threat scenarios. For instance in some embodiments a survivability planning system may have access to multiple sets of simulation data corresponding to different vehicle to threat scenarios. During a mission e.g. in response to detecting one or more pop up threats the survivability planning system may use situational data to identify a matching vehicle to threat scenario and may use simulation data corresponding to the identified scenario to select one or more appropriate actions. In this manner the survivability planning system may be able to analyze and compare outcomes of different courses of action without having to perform extensive computations in real time.

In yet another aspect the inventors have recognized and appreciated that visual representations of mission related information such as a vehicle s exposure to a particular threat and the vehicle s abilities to detect and attack the threat may facilitate a human operator s understanding and analysis of a vehicle to threat scenario which may in turn improve the quality of the human operator s decision as to a suitable course of action. Accordingly in some embodiments a survivability planning system may be adapted to visually render vehicle signature sensor obscuration countermeasure effectiveness vehicle vulnerability or any other suitable type of information to a human operator. For example visual representations may be rendered based on situational data regarding a pop up threat. Alternatively or additionally visual representations may be rendered based on simulation data to help the human operator understand and compare outcomes of different courses of action.

Following below are more detailed descriptions of various concepts related to and embodiments of inventive systems methods and apparatus for improving vehicle survivability. It should be appreciated that various concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the disclosed concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. For instance the present disclosure is not limited to the particular arrangements of components shown in the various figures as other arrangements may also be suitable. Such examples of specific implementations and applications are provided solely for illustrative purposes.

Furthermore any of the inventive concepts disclosed herein may be implemented in connection with any of the systems and methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 769 502 titled Survivability Attack Planning System U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 879 titled Survivability System U.S. Pat. No. 8 005 657 titled Survivability Mission Modeler and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0010793 A1 titled Vehicle Aspect Control all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

In the example shown in the survivability planning system includes a survivability engine adapted to process situational and simulation data and to select one or more appropriate actions for a vehicle in a given scenario. The selected actions may be presented as recommendations to a human operator who may be onboard the vehicle e.g. a pilot of an aircraft a driver of a car etc. or controlling the vehicle remotely. Alternatively the selected actions may be automatically implemented to control one or more systems on the vehicle.

The survivability planning system may include one or more components that allow the survivability engine to collect and disseminate information. For example in some embodiments the survivability planning system may receive input from one or more sensors onboard the vehicle and may provide control signals to influence how the sensors collect information. The sensors may sense situational conditions using any suitable passive and or active sensing technologies including but not limited to radar IR sonar video image laser and acoustic sensing technologies. For instance some sensors may be configured to sense operating conditions of the vehicle such as latitude longitude altitude heading orientation speed acceleration and changes and or rates of changes in any of such operating conditions. Some other sensors may sense environmental conditions such as light humidity atmospheric pressure wind speed and wind direction. Yet some other sensors may provide information regarding one or more threats that may be present. For example a target recognition sensor may provide information relating to threat type e.g. a weapons system another vehicle e.g. another aircraft another car another ship etc. and an enemy sensor system and a range sensor e.g. radar or laser radar may estimate a distance between the vehicle and a detected threat. Other types of sensors may also be suitable as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of any particular type of sensors.

In some further embodiments the survivability engine may interact with a human operator onboard the vehicle or a human operator remotely controlling the vehicle via one or more input output devices . Examples of input output devices include but are not limited to touch sensitive displays heads up displays HUDs keyboards buttons switches levers speakers headphones speakers microphones video cameras and tactors configured to tactually present information to a human operator by relying on the human operators sense of touch. Some of these input output devices may be coupled with an appropriate recognition engine such as a speech gesture or handwriting recognition engine to recognize input from the human operator.

In yet some further embodiments the survivability engine may receive and transmit information via one or more communication devices which may use any suitable communication technologies such as radio and microwave technologies. The communication devices may allow the survivability engine to interact with a remote system such as a command center or another vehicle and may allow the survivability engine to receive any suitable information e.g. intelligence information and location information about one or more threats to the vehicle .

In the example shown in the survivability planning system further includes a situational data store a simulation data store and a signature data store . The situational data store may store any useful information such as mission objectives locations and capabilities of known or likely threats vehicle capabilities and vulnerabilities locations and capabilities of friendly entities terrain and weather conditions and weather predictions. Such information may be loaded into the situational data store prior to the start of a mission or may be collected and stored during the mission. For example the survivability engine may use inputs received from the sensors the input output devices and the communication devices to update the information stored in the situational data store .

The simulation data store may store data obtained from off line simulations of various vehicle to threat scenarios. For instance in some embodiments a simulation may be conducted by building a model of a specific vehicle to threat scenario based on hypothetical situational conditions and using the model to analyze potential courses of action in the scenario. The model may be built using any suitable technique or combination techniques including but not limited to those described in greater detail below in connection with FIGS. and A B. Likewise any suitable optimization techniques may be used to identify acceptable courses of action such as techniques that seek to decrease cost and or increase utility over some suitable horizon which may be finite or infinite .

The signature data store may store one or more signature exposure models associated with a vehicle. Each signature exposure models may also correspond to one or more types of threats. For example a signature exposure model may correspond to a particular type of enemy sensor e.g. an RF electro optical or IR sensor operating at a particular band of frequencies . The one or more signature exposure models may be created using data generated from offline simulation and or data collected while using the vehicle e.g. by measuring energy emitted from and or reflected by the vehicle using one or more sensors .

In some embodiments a signature exposure model may represent the way a vehicle may appear to a sensor. Each sensor may have a corresponding signature exposure model because the vehicle may appear differently when examined either passively or actively at different sets of frequencies. For example the vehicle may appear differently when examined by an RF sensor e.g. a radar than when examined by an IR sensor e.g. an infrared camera .

A signature exposure model may store one or more values associated with a set of relative geometries between the vehicle and a sensor. For example a vehicle may appear differently to a sensor from a nose on orientation than from a sideways orientation. As such the signature exposure model may store one or more values for each pair of azimuth elevation coordinates. Some examples of signature exposure models are described in greater detail below in connection with . However it should be appreciated that information captured by a signature exposure model may be organized and or indexed in any other suitable way.

In some embodiments a simulation may involve the same types of analyses carried out by the survivability engine in real time to analyze actual situational data the only difference being some or all of the inputs used in the simulation are hypothetical data. In other embodiments a simulation may involve different analyses e.g. analyses that the survivability engine may not be able to perform in real time due to constraints in computational resources . For instance in one implementation one or more situational conditions may be modeled as a probability distribution to represent imperfect information or uncertainty. Such an input probability distribution may be sampled to estimate probabilities of certain outcomes such as a vehicle surviving or not surviving an attack by a threat. This computation may be done in an offline simulation for different input probability distributions and the outcome probability distributions may be stored in the simulation data store in association with the corresponding input probability distributions. In this manner the survivability engine may be able to retrieve an appropriate outcome probability distribution by identifying an input probability distribution that matches actual situational data without having to compute the outcome probability distribution in real time.

In the example shown in the survivability engine further interacts with one or more guidance navigation and control GNC systems and one or more weapon systems . For instance the survivability engine may provide control outputs to the GNC systems and the weapon systems to implement one or more actions selected by the survivability engine .

In some embodiments where the survivability planning system is used in connection with a UAV the survivability engine may provide control signals to the GNC systems to control one or more parameters of the operations of the UAV including but not limited to flight path aspect angle altitude and speed. In alternative embodiments where the survivability planning system is used in connection with a manned vehicle e.g. an aircraft a car a motorcycle a ship etc. outputs of the survivability engine may be presented to a human operator as a recommendation or suggestion. Such a recommendation or suggestion may be presented visually e.g. on a HUD a dashboard etc. audibly e.g. via speech synthesis or in any other suitable manner. Similarly the survivability engine may provide control signals to the weapon systems to configure the weapon systems to detect track and engage one or more threats.

In various embodiments the survivability engine may present one or more recommendations for a course of action to a human operator in any suitable manner. For example the recommendation may be a recommendation to perform a specific vehicle maneuver e.g. to realize a particular route for the vehicle to follow or any other action or actions related to guidance navigation and control functions. As another example the recommendation may be a recommendation to perform any action or actions related to weapon systems of the vehicle. Recommendations may be presented using any input output devices of the survivability planning system. As such recommendations may be provided using any suitable modality including but not limited to devices for presenting information aurally visually and or tactually.

While examples of various components of a survivability planning system are discussed above in connection with it should be appreciated that such examples are provided solely for illustrative purposes. Other combinations of components may also be suitable as aspects of the present disclosure are not so limited.

At act the survivability planning system may obtain situational data relating to an actual or hypothetical scenario in which the vehicle may be operating. The situational data may be received from any suitable source such as a sensor a user input device or a communications device or may be retrieved from a suitable data storage. As discussed above in connection with situational data may include any information that may be useful in selecting an appropriate action in the scenario. For example the situational data may include information relating to the vehicle s own capabilities such as the ability to maneuver in a certain way under certain conditions to detect a threat or to attack a threat. As another example the situational data may include information relating to known or potential threats that the vehicle may encounter such as locations and types of such threats. As yet another example the situational data may include information relating to environmental conditions such as weather and terrain conditions and locations and capabilities of friendly entities. Other types of situational data may also be suitable as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of any particular types of situational data.

At act the survivability planning system may use the situational data obtained at act to update an evaluation model for use in selecting one or more appropriate actions for the vehicle in the given scenario. In some illustrative embodiments the evaluation model may be a mathematical model that represents the actual or hypothetical scenario in which the vehicle is operating. Such a model may be constructed using techniques described below in connection with FIGS. and A B or any other suitable techniques such as those generally known in the art.

Updating the evaluation model may in some instances include building a new model using the situational data obtained at act . Alternatively the evaluation model may have been built previously in which case updating the evaluation model may include modifying deleting or adding model parameters based on the situational data obtained at act . The situational data may be used to perform such an update with or without further processing.

Having updated the evaluation model the survivability planning system may proceed to act to evaluate possible courses of action for the vehicle. This evaluation may be performed using any suitable criterion or combination of criteria. In one example the survivability planning system may seek to identify potential courses of action that may completely avoid detection by any threat. In another example the survivability planning system may use a more relaxed criterion for example by tolerating some detection so long as no threat would have sufficient time to track and engage the vehicle after detecting the vehicle. In yet another example the survivability planning system may use a combination of different criteria such as avoiding detection by any threat while maintaining effectiveness of countermeasures against any threat.

In some embodiments some of the criteria used by the survivability planning system may be probabilistic. For instance the survivability planning system may seek to identify potential courses of action for which the probability that the vehicle survives the mission is above an accepted threshold. Such an outcome probability may be derived based on various input probabilities examples of which include but are not limited to a probability that the vehicle can be detected by a threat of a certain type located at a certain angle and a certain distance from the vehicle given certain weather and terrain conditions a probability that the threat can successfully track and engage the vehicle given a certain window of exposure of the vehicle to the threat and a probability that the vehicle can survive an attack by the threat.

In some further embodiments the survivability planning system may use simulation data to inform the evaluation performed at act . For example the survivability planning system may use the situational data obtained at act to identify one or more matching scenarios for which simulation data is available from a suitable data store e.g. the simulation data store shown in . The available simulation data may include useful information such as probabilities of certain outcomes of interest. In this manner the survivability planning system may be able to compare outcomes of different courses of action without having to perform extensive computations in real time.

Proceeding to act the survivability planning system may select an optimal course of action for the vehicle in the given scenario based on the analysis performed at act . As discussed above whether a course of action is preferred over another course of action may depend on the particular criterion or criteria employed by the survivability planning system. Furthermore it should be appreciated that an optimal course of action need not be a most preferred course of action in an absolute sense. Rather the survivability planning system may use any suitable approximation algorithms or heuristics to select a course of action that may be preferred over other courses of action. Such approximation algorithms or heuristics may be employed to improve response time or reduce computational requirements of the survivability planning system.

Proceeding to act the survivability planning system may determine whether the vehicle has successfully completed the mission. If so the process may end. Otherwise the process may return to act to obtain new situational data. In this manner the survivability planning system may continually analyze up to date situational data and respond to changes by re evaluating the vehicle s available options and possibly selecting a different course of action.

As mentioned above the process may be used to analyze a hypothetical scenario which may be done in the context of a simulation. In that case hypothetical situational data may be obtained at act and one or more outcomes of the analysis performed at act may be stored in association with the corresponding hypothetical situational data in a suitable data store e.g. the simulation data store shown in . Alternatively the process may be performed by a survivability planning system during an actual mission in which case actual situational data may be obtained at act and the course of action selected at act may be implemented or presented to a human operator as a recommendation.

Turning to an example of a mathematical model is illustrated that can be used to represent a vehicle to threat scenario in accordance with some embodiments. In this example a physical region to be traversed by a vehicle is modeled as a collection of cells arranged in a two dimensional grid and movement of the vehicle through the physical region is modeled as a sequence of maneuvers between cells.

Each cell in the illustrative model may include a number of different nodes. For example as shown in cell e.g. the cell located at the upper left corner at row 0 and column 0 may include eight nodes labeled 0 1 . . . 7. Each such node may represent a different angle at which the vehicle may enter cell . For example node 0 may represent the vehicle entering cell from cell and node 7 may represent the vehicle entering cell from cell .

Furthermore in the illustrated model the vehicle may exit each cell in a number of different ways depending on how the vehicle entered the cell. For example as illustrated in the vehicle may be traveling from left to right at node 34 because the vehicle entered cell from cell . Assuming the vehicle cannot travel backwards or suspend its motion e.g. as typically is the case for a fixed wing aircraft the vehicle can perform one of seven possible maneuvers from node 34 causing the vehicle to exit cell and enter respectively cells and .

Thus the illustrative model can be viewed as a state transition model where each state is defined by some information relating to the vehicle e.g. current location of the vehicle specified using quantized coordinates that divide a continuous physical region into a collection of discrete cells and possibly some history information e.g. how the vehicle entered a cell and where transitions from given states are defined by actions the vehicle can perform e.g. maneuvers that the vehicle is physically capable of performing from that state.

It should be appreciated that the model shown in and described above is provided solely for purposes of illustration as other types of models may also be used in connection with various inventive concepts disclosed herein. For instance although the illustrative model is a two dimensional model other dimensionality may also be used as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular dimensionality. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular arrangement or geometry of cells nor to any particular definitions of nodes and transitions.

In the example shown in the vehicle starts at node 3 which indicates the vehicle entered cell from the upper left corner thus traveling towards the lower right. The vehicle then transitions at from node 3 to node 10 exiting cell and entering cell . As shown in transition corresponds to the vehicle executing a slight left turn while in cell . From node 10 the vehicle transitions at to node 36 exiting cell and entering cell . As shown in transition corresponds the vehicle executing a right turn while in cell . From node 36 the vehicle transitions at to node 42 exiting cell and entering cell . As shown in transition corresponds the vehicle executing a left turn while in cell . From node 42 the vehicle transitions at to node 61 exiting cell and entering cell . As shown in transition corresponds the vehicle executing a hard right turn while in cell . Finally from node 61 the vehicle transitions at to node 54 exiting cell and entering cell . As shown in transition corresponds the vehicle executing a slight right turn while in cell .

As discussed above a survivability planning system may evaluate a sequence of maneuvers by assigning to each maneuver a numerical measure or metric indicative of how much positive or negative impact the maneuver may have on the overall survivability of the vehicle. Such a numerical measure may reflect any suitable combination of survivability factors that may affect the vehicle s abilities to detect a threat evade detection by the threat remove the threat using a countermeasure and survive an attack by the threat.

For instance in some embodiments each maneuver may be assigned a cost metric that takes into account multiple factors such as whether the maneuver leads the vehicle closer to or farther away from a threat and whether the maneuver changes the orientation of the vehicle in such a way that the vehicle is more or less likely to be detected by a threat. As discussed in greater detail below in connection with FIGS. and A B a cost metric may also take into account information regarding multiple threats for example by combining component cost metrics associated with different threats where a different weight may be assigned to each component cost metric.

In the example shown in the transitions . . . may each be associated with a cost value respectfully 0.5 1 2 1 and 3 representing the potential negative impact associated with the corresponding maneuver. As discussed above such costs may be assigned in any suitable manner to take into account various aspects of vehicle survivability. For example the illustrative cost pattern shown in may result from a threat being present in cell so that cost increases as the vehicle moves closer to cell . Furthermore a positive cost may be incurred at transition even though the corresponding maneuver may take the vehicle away from the threat because making a hard right turn in cell may increase the vehicle s exposure to a sensor of the threat e.g. a jet plane may be more susceptible to detection by an IR sensor from behind because of the heat released by the jet engines .

While an illustrative cost pattern is shown in and described above it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular methods for assigning numerical metrics to transitions in a model. For example in addition to or instead of measures of cost measures of utility may also be assigned to transitions to represent potential positive impact. As another example in some further embodiments cost metrics may be assigned to cells in a two dimensional cellular cost map where each cell may correspond to a particular combination of latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates. The cost metrics may be computed based on any available information that may be relevant for survivability of a vehicle. Examples of such information include but are not limited to inter visibility RF signature IR signature visual signature and aspect angle to threat. Based on the available information an amount of aspect angle variation that can be tolerated by the vehicle may be determined for each cell and a number of aspect slices may be selected for consideration. For each selected aspect slice a minimum exposure may be computed. For instance the minimum exposure may be computed based on the physical maneuvering ability of the vehicle or constraints imposed by the need to perform other important tasks related to the mission. For example the vehicle may be required to point a sensor in a specific direction and based on the limitations of where the sensor may point the vehicle may be constrained to a certain range of aspect variation. An overall cost for the cell may then be computed based on a maximum of the minimums computed for the selected aspect slices. For example the overall cost for the cell may be proportional to the maximum of the minimums computed for the selected aspect slices.

Again referring to a total cost for the route may be any suitable combination of the individual cost values such as a weighted or un weighted sum of the individual cost values. For instance in some implementations the individual cost values may be weighted according to immediacy of the corresponding maneuvers e.g. the transition may be accorded more weight than the transition because the latter is further into the future . In this manner the survivability planning system may select an appropriate course of action by searching for a sequence of transitions of a given length that may be less costly than other sequences of the same length.

Although specific examples of modeling techniques are described above in connection with FIGS. and A B it should be appreciated that other modeling techniques may also be suitable as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular way of modeling vehicle to threat scenarios. For example in an embodiment in which measures of utility are used in addition to or instead of measures of cost a survivability planning system may search for transition sequences with high utility and or low cost.

At act the survivability planning system may obtain signature exposure information indicative of the vehicle s susceptibility to detection by one or more threats. Because different threats or even the same threat may be equipped with different sensing technologies different signature exposure models may be included in the signature exposure information. Furthermore the signature exposure information may depend on a type of the vehicle because different types of vehicles may have different attributes such as size shape and engine location. In some embodiments the survivability planning system may obtain signature exposure information by retrieving one or more signature exposure models from the illustrative signature data store shown in and described above. shows an illustrative example of two signature exposure models that can be used to estimate how easily a vehicle e.g. a helicopter can be detected from various angles by a threat in accordance with some embodiments. In this example a first signature exposure model is associated with IR technology and is represented by a curve around the helicopter and a second signature exposure model is associated with radar technology and is represented by a curve around the helicopter .

In the example shown in a line is drawn between the helicopter and an IR threat intersecting the curve at a point . The distance between the point and the helicopter may be indicative of how easily the IR threat can detect the helicopter from the particular direction shown in . Thus in this example the curve indicates that the helicopter is more susceptible to detection by an IR sensor from the back than from the front which may be due to heat being released by engines the helicopter .

Similarly in the example shown in a line is drawn between the helicopter and the radar threat intersecting the curve at a point . The distance between the point and the helicopter is indicative of how easily the radar threat can detect the helicopter from the particular direction shown in . Thus in this example the curve indicates that the helicopter is more susceptible to detection by a radar from the front and at certain angles from the side which may be due to the shapes of the nose and the rotor blades.

Returning to the signature information obtained at act may be processed for example to combine signature exposure models of different threats. As discussed in greater detail below in connection with acts and a combined signature exposure model may be used to select a course of action that may reduce the vehicle s overall signature exposure with respect to multiple threats although the selected course of action may not be optimal with respect to any individual threat . The combination may be done in any suitable manner for example to reflect desired trade offs among the different threats.

In one embodiment as illustrated in two different signature exposure models represented respectively by the curves and may be added together to obtain a third signature exposure model represented by a curve . Signature exposure models may be added in any suitable way. For example two or more signature exposure models may be added by adding values stored in association with corresponding pairs of azimuth elevation coordinates in the signature exposure models being added. This sum may although need not be weighted where the weights may reflect which threat is considered to be more important in a given situation. For example as discussed in greater detail below in connection with the weights may change depending when the vehicle is believed to have been exposed to a threat and how much time has elapsed since the initial exposure.

Although specific examples of signature exposure models and methods for combining signature exposure models are discussed in connection with it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not limited to any particular type of signature exposure models nor to any particular method of combination. For example although two dimensional signature exposure models e.g. curves are shown in signature exposure models may also be three dimensional 3D as shown in and discussed below.

Returning again to the survivability planning system may obtain constraint information at act . Constraints may be used to model various mission requirements examples of which include but are not limited to mission deadline sensor obscuration vehicle vulnerability and countermeasure effectiveness. For example a sensor clearance obscuration may be imposed to avoid combinations of vehicle location and vehicle orientation that may cause an object e.g. landing gear in an embodiment in which the vehicle is an aircraft to obscure a threat from a sensor on the vehicle. As another example a vehicle vulnerability constraint may be imposed to avoid combinations of vehicle location and vehicle orientation that may cause a particularly vulnerable portion of the vehicle to be exposed to an attack by a threat. As yet another example a countermeasure effectiveness constraint may be imposed to avoid combinations of vehicle location and vehicle orientation that may prevent countermeasures from effectively attacking a threat. As yet another example a mission deadline constraint may be imposed to require completion of a mission by an absolute deadline or a relative deadline e.g. relative to a start time of the mission . Evaluating such a constraint may involve examining mission history which may be represented as a sequence of transitions in a state transition model.

As yet another example a mission stage deadline constraint may be imposed to require completion of a course of action such as any of the previously described courses of action before the completion of a particular stage of the mission. Accordingly the survivability planning system may estimate the duration of one or more mission stages and may estimate how much time remains in a particular stage of a mission. Mission stages and examples of mission stages are described in more detail below with reference to .

At act the survivability planning system may compute numerical cost measures for various actions that may be executed by the vehicle. As previously mentioned the action may be executed by the vehicle for any suitable purpose and for example may be executed in response to detecting a threat to avoid the threat to mitigate reduce the threat and or to eliminate the threat. Some examples of actions that may be taken include but are not limited to firing one or more weapons changing speed altitude heading or orientation performing a maneuver and deploying a countermeasure e.g. jamming a communication channel . In some embodiments such an action may be modeled as a transition from one state to another in a state transition model where each state may contain information indicative of situational conditions at a corresponding point during a mission and possibly information indicative of mission history up to that point.

The survivability planning system may select an action to be analyzed in any suitable manner. For example if the process is performed in the context of a simulation the goal may be to analyze all possible actions so the survivability planning system may simply select the actions one by one in any suitable order. As another example the selection may be randomized e.g. by randomly selecting one or more action parameters . As yet another example the survivability planning system may use any suitable strategies or heuristics designed to facilitate efficient selection of appropriate actions. For instance in an embodiment in which a state transition model is used the survivability planning system may identify and reduce states and or transitions that may lead to indistinguishable outcomes.

In various embodiments the survivability planning system may compute the numerical cost measures based on any suitable combination of factors. For instance the survivability planning system may take into account one or more measures of signature exposure e.g. as discussed above in connection with act and one or more constraints e.g. as discussed above in connection with act . As a more specific example a higher cost may be associated with an action if the action is likely to increase the vehicle s signature exposure and or cause one or more constraints to be violated.

In some embodiments numerical measures corresponding to signature exposure to different threat sensors and or numerical measures corresponding to different constraints may be weighted differently depending on time to engagement estimates. For example an individual cost measure corresponding to a threat that is estimated to have had sufficient time to detect and track the vehicle may be weighted more heavily compared to an individual cost measure corresponding to a threat that is estimated not to have had sufficient time to detect and track the vehicle. An illustrative example of such a weighting scheme is described in greater detail below in connection with . However it should be appreciated that other weighting schemes may also be used as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular method for combining numerical measures.

Having computed numerical cost measures at act the survivability planning system may proceed to act to select an appropriate course of action. Any suitable optimization techniques may be used for that purpose such as techniques that seek to decrease cost and or increase utility over some suitable horizon which may be finite or infinite . For example in an embodiment in which a combined cost is computed for each action at act to take into account signature exposure with respect to multiple threat sensors an optimization technique that seeks to minimize cost may be used to select a course of action that reduces the risk of the vehicle being detected by any of the threat sensors. Additionally alternative courses of action e.g. second best course of action third best course of action etc. as determined by the optimization technique may be identified in act .

At act the survivability planning system may evaluate the course of action selected at act . For instance the survivability planning system may check whether any of the constraints discussed above in connection with act may be violated as a result of executing the selected course of action. For example the survivability planning system may check whether the course of action was completed before the completion of a particular mission stage. As another example the survivability planning system may check whether the course of action is a physically realizable maneuver. Alternatively or additionally the selected course of action may be presented to a human operator for review and approval where the human operator may be onboard the vehicle or may be controlling the vehicle remotely.

If it is determined at act that the course of action selected at act is satisfactory the process may end and the selected course of action may be executed by the vehicle. If it is determined at act that the course of action selected at act is not satisfactory the process may select one of the alternative course of action identified at act to determine whether that course of action may be satisfactory. Additionally or alternatively the process may proceed to modify one or more parameters of the evaluation model used at acts and . In one example a different vehicle type may be selected with different maneuver detection and or countermeasure capabilities. In another example different mission start time and or start location may be selected. Other types of modifications may also be suitable as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular way of modifying the evaluation model.

Having modified the evaluation model at act the process may return to act to repeat the analysis and select another course of action. This may continue until a satisfactory course of action is identified or until some stopping condition is reached e.g. a deadline or a certain number of allowed iterations .

While illustrative techniques for selecting a course of action for a vehicle are discussed above in connection with it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular technique or combination of techniques. For example any suitable part of the process may be made probabilistic for example by replacing deterministic input values with input probability distributions. For example a probability distribution may be provided over likely locations of each threat and another probability distribution may be provided over likely types of each threat and associated detection and attack capabilities. In this manner possible courses of action may be evaluated based on probabilistic criteria e.g. whether a vehicle is estimated to survive a mission with a probability higher than some threshold value . As another example a course of action may be selected using an approach other than by computing numerical cost measures. For instance a course of action may be selected applying one or more rules to available situational data and or signature exposure models.

As discussed above the survivability planning system may accord different weights to different factors depending on a stage of a mission. shows an illustrative embodiment in which a mission timeline is divided into multiple stages namely a safe stage a detection stage a tracking stage a firing stage an engagement stage and an impact stage . These stages may differ in the degree of danger a threat may pose to a vehicle in each stage.

At the safe stage the survivability planning system may determine that the vehicle is unlikely to have been detected by any threat for example because each known threat is more than a corresponding threshold distance e.g. the distance at which there exists a 10 or lower chance of being detected by the threat away from the vehicle and sensors onboard the vehicle have not detected any pop up threat.

At the detection stage the survivability planning system may determine that the vehicle is likely to be detected by a threat. This stage may be entered when some threat is no more than the corresponding threshold distance e.g. the distance at which there exists at least a 50 chance of being detected by the threat away from the vehicle due to relative movement between the vehicle and the threat. Alternatively the detection stage may be entered when a sensor onboard the vehicle detects a pop up threat or when a notification of the presence of a pop up threat is received via a communication interface. Once the detection stage is entered the survivability planning system may optimize for reduced visual signature for example by assigning a greater weight to a measure of visual signature when computing numerical cost measures at act of . An illustrative representation of a measure of visual signature is shown in having an hourglass shape indicating that the vehicle is more easily seen from above or below than from the side.

At the tracking stage the survivability planning system may determine that the threat is likely to have detected and begun tracking the vehicle. This stage may be entered when for instance the vehicle has entered a detection range e.g. visual range IR range radar range etc. of the threat for more than a corresponding threshold period of time e.g. the time at which there exists at least a 50 chance that the threat has begun tracking the vehicle . Alternatively the tracking stage may be entered when a sensor onboard the vehicle confirms that the threat has detected the vehicle. Once the tracking stage is entered the survivability planning system may optimize for reduced signature e.g. visual signature IR signature radar signature etc. for example by assigning a greater weight to a measure of signature e.g. visual signature IR signature radar signature etc. when computing numerical cost measures at act of . An illustrative representation of a measure of IR signature is shown in in association with the tracking stage indicating that the vehicle is more easily tracked from behind than from the front by an IR sensor.

It should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of signature exposure measures based on any particular detection technology. Rather signature exposure measures based on any suitable detection technology or combination of detection technologies may be used to evaluate different courses of actions for a vehicle. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of signature exposure measures as other types of measures may also be suitable. For example any suitable measure may be used to represent aspect and or elevation dependent data around a vehicle such as data relating one or more constraints e.g. sensor obscuration data relating one or more transmission patterns e.g. the vehicle s ability to jam or transmit over a communication channel data relating to countermeasure effectiveness data relating to hit survivability and any suitable combination thereof. Examples of such measures are discussed below in connection with the firing stage the engagement stage and the impact stage of .

At the firing stage the survivability planning system may determine that the threat is likely to have locked on to the vehicle and be preparing to fire. This stage may be entered when for instance the tracking stage has lasted for more than a corresponding threshold period of time e.g. the time at which there exists at least a 50 chance of lock occurring . Alternatively the firing stage may be entered when a sensor onboard the vehicle confirms that the threat has locked on to the vehicle. Once the firing stage is entered the survivability planning system may optimize for countermeasure effectiveness for example by assigning a greater weight to a measure of countermeasure effectiveness when computing numerical cost measures at act of . An illustrative representation of a measure of countermeasure effectiveness is shown in indicating that a target below the vehicle can be attacked more effectively than a target above the vehicle and that a threat located at certain angles from the vehicle e.g. through an opening in the representation cannot be effective attacked.

At the engagement stage the survivability planning system may determine that the threat is likely to have engaged the vehicle. This stage may be entered when for instance the firing stage has lasted for more than a corresponding threshold period of time e.g. the time at which there exists at least a 50 chance of the threat firing a weapon at the vehicle . Alternatively the engagement stage may be entered when a sensor onboard the vehicle confirms that a weapon of the threat has fired against the vehicle. Once the engagement stage is entered the survivability planning system may optimize for hit survivability for example by assigning a greater weight to a measure of hit survivability when computing numerical cost measures at act of . An illustrative representation of a measure of hit survivability is shown in having various spikes corresponding to portions of the vehicle that are more vulnerable than others. For example a spike may indicate that the vehicle is particularly vulnerable to a hit from the front.

At the impact stage the survivability planning system may determine that the threat has engaged the vehicle and impact is imminent and may continue to optimize for hit survivability as in the engagement stage . The impact stage may be entered when for instance the engagement stage has lasted for more than a corresponding threshold period of time e.g. the time at which there exists at least a 50 chance of impact occurring . Alternatively the impact stage may be entered when a sensor onboard the vehicle confirms that a missile fired by the threat is less than a corresponding threshold distance away from the vehicle.

While an illustrative timeline and associated optimization strategies are discussed above in connection with it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of a timeline nor to any particular optimization strategy. Furthermore in an embodiment in which a timeline is used transitions between various stages may be defined in any suitable manner. For instance any of the stages described above may be entered based on input from a human operator onboard the vehicle instead of or in addition to analysis of automatically collected data.

In the example shown in the GUI is used to render a 3D space in a 2D representation of a vehicle s signature exposure to a radar. The 2D representation is in the form of a surface surrounding a representation of the vehicle so that in any given direction a distance between the surface and the representation may be indicative of a level of signature exposure in that particular direction. For example as indicated by the presence of a protrusion the vehicle may be more susceptible to detection by a radar from the rear due to the shape of the nose of the vehicle. In this manner a human operator may be able to more quickly and easily interpret numerical measures computed by a survivability planning system.

In the example shown in the GUI is used to render a 3D space in a 2D representation of an obscuration constraint associated with a sensor on a vehicle. The 2D representation is in the form of a surface surrounding a representation of the vehicle so that in any given direction a distance between the surface and the representation may be indicative of whether the sensor may be obscured by some object from sensing in that direction. For instance as illustrated by a line between the representation of the vehicle and a representation of a threat intersecting the surface at a point the distance between the surface and the representation may be non zero which may indicate that the sensor on the vehicle is not obscured in that direction. By contrast as indicated by the presence of holes in the surface such as a hole the sensor in this example may be obscured by the vehicle s landing gear from sensing in certain directions.

It should be appreciated that the GUI shown in and the GUI shown in are merely illustrative as other types of GUIs may also be suitable. For example instead of rending a 2D representation of a 3D space a 2D representation may be rendered of a 2D space e.g. as shown in FIGS. AB . Furthermore instead of rending a 2D representation as a mesh or shadow the 2D representation may be rendered in any other suitable manner including but not limited to as a solid surface. Further still a representation may be rendered against any suitable background such as an image of the terrain over which the vehicle is traveling which may be a computer generated image a satellite image or any other suitable types of images. However in alternative embodiments background images may not be used at all.

The computer may have one or more input devices and or output devices such as devices and illustrated in . These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

As shown in the computer may also comprise one or more network interfaces e.g. the network interface to enable communication via various networks e.g. the network . Examples of networks include a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Having thus described several embodiments of inventive concepts it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the inventive concepts disclosed herein. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a non transitory computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other non transitory tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. That perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

