---

title: Piezoelectronic memory
abstract: A memory element includes a first piezotronic transistor coupled to a second piezotronic transistor; the first and second piezotronic transistors each comprising a piezoelectric (PE) material and a piezoresistive (PR) material, wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material is dependent upon an applied voltage across the PE material by way of an applied pressure to the PR material by the PE material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058868&OS=09058868&RS=09058868
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09058868
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N66001 11 C 4109 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to integrated circuit devices and more particularly to piezoelectronic memory devices having piezoelectronic transistor components.

Field Effect Transistors FETs support the standard computer architecture CMOS currently used in logic and memory. Their shrinking size over several decades following Moore s law led to enormous increases in speed and reductions in voltage as predicted by Dennard scaling theory. However starting around 2003 supply voltages could no longer be reduced and that meant clock speeds had to be limited to prevent excessive power densities. Discovery of a fast low voltage switching device based on a different principle of operation has become critical for the continued pace of information technology.

One way in which the approach could be different would be to have the voltage that controls the switching device transduced into another energy state such as pressure which is gated and then transduced back into a voltage or current at the output. With mechanical amplification in the case of pressure transduction it is possible to have a very small input voltage control a rather large output. The result is a switch for logic and memory that operates at an extremely low power density.

It is also desirable to find a technology that can build multi layer structures that open up significant new applications such as high capacity multilayer memories and combinations of logic and memory at different levels optimized to reduce wiring length. Such structures are very difficult to make in CMOS because of the need for all FETs to be formed in single crystal silicon. Technologies based on other materials may allow more three dimensional structures.

In an exemplary embodiment a memory element includes a first piezotronic transistor coupled to a second piezotronic transistor the first and second piezotronic transistors each comprising a piezoelectric PE material and a piezoresistive PR material wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material is dependent upon an applied voltage across the PE material by way of an applied pressure to the PR material by the PE material.

In another embodiment a piezotronic transistor device includes a first piezoelectric PE material disposed between a first electrode and a second electrode a second PE material disposed between the first electrode and a third electrode a piezoresistive PR material disposed between the second electrode and a fourth electrode wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material is dependent upon an applied voltage across the first PE material by way of an applied pressure to the PR material by the first PE material and a semi rigid housing surrounding the PE PR and electrode materials the semi rigid housing in direct physical contact with the first third and fourth electrodes.

In another embodiment piezotronic transistor device includes a piezoelectric PE material disposed between a first electrode and a second electrode the PE material also disposed between the first electrode and a third electrode a first piezoresistive PR material disposed between the second electrode and a fourth electrode wherein an electrical resistance of the first PR material is dependent upon an applied voltage via the first and second electrodes across the first PE material by way of an applied pressure to the first PR material by the PE material a second piezoresistive PR material disposed between the third electrode and a fifth electrode wherein an electrical resistance of the second PR material is dependent upon an applied voltage via the first and third electrodes across the PE material by way of an applied pressure to the second PR material by the PE material and a semi rigid housing surrounding the PE PR and electrode materials the semi rigid housing in direct physical contact with the first fourth and fifth electrodes.

In another embodiment a non volatile memory element includes a first piezotronic transistor coupled to a second piezotronic transistor the first and second piezotronic transistors each comprising at least one piezoelectric PE material and at least one piezoresistive PR material wherein an electrical resistance of the at least one PR material is dependent upon an applied voltage across the at least one PE material by way of an applied pressure to the at least one PR material by the at least one PE material.

Piezotronic memory PEM consists of a piezoelectric material the PE in mechanical contact with a hysteric piezoresistive material the PR that changes its resistivity upon compression and rarefaction. In operation PE expansion followed by a return to the initial state compresses the hysteretic PR and causes it to change into a stable state with a low resistance. Conversely PE contraction changes the PR into a stable state with a high resistance. PEM using hysteric phase change material has been proposed as a memory device in U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 135 to Elmegreen et al. Additional detailed discussions of piezotronics including materials for the PE and PR and simulations of piezoelectronic transistors PETs logic inverters ring oscillators and flip flops may be found in D. M. Newns B. G. Elmegreen X. H. Liu G. Martyna 2012 A Low Voltage High Speed Electronic Switch Based on Piezoelectric Transduction J. Appl. Phys. 111 084509 and in D. M. Newns B. G. Elmegreen X. H. Liu G. Martyna 2012 High Response Piezoelectric and Piezoresistive Materials for Fast Low Voltage Switching Simulation and Theory of Novel Transduction Physics at the Nanoscale Advanced Materials 24 p. 3672 3677. Further patent related disclosures for other aspects of the PET may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 8 159 854 to Elmegreen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 247 947 to Elmegreen et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 176 880.

Important aspects of memory cells for computers cell phones and other electronic devices are the maximum density of these cells on a single chip the total memory capacity the speed of reads and writes the energy consumed in reads and writes the energy consumed in preserving the memory state and the long term stability of the storage material. Accordingly exemplary embodiment disclosed herein provide new designs for PEMs and PETs as well as new designs for 2 control line and 3 control line PEMs that can be made entirely from piezoelectric and piezoresistive materials without the need for conventional FETs made with CMOS technology. The proposed PEM is fast dense and low power and with certain designs that may be non volatile as well. Furthermore the read operation of such devices is non destructive.

Broadly stated a PET containing a hysteretic PR material which has the property of bi stability is capable of being switched between two states one of which has a low PR resistance and the other of which has a relatively high PR resistance. The hysteretic PET HPET acts as the memory storage medium. A second PET serves as the access device which turns on only in response to the word line and when OFF protects the memory cell from bit line fluctuations. To minimize interface fracture or depolarization of the PR the HPET PR is designed to operate under typical conditions at positive pressure. Its standby condition near the center of its hysteresis loop is then held by a continuous positive pressure.

The PE in the HPET operates in or close to unipolar mode for long term stability meaning that it applies positive or zero pressure under a voltage which does not change sign. The standby mode has an intermediate pressure. One way to implement this as illustrated in the first two embodiments described below is to apply a positive bias voltage to the PE to achieve positive pressure during standby. Then the PE operates with a smaller or larger positive voltage relative to the standby voltage during switching. Another solution as implemented in a third embodiment is to apply a positive bias pressure to the PE during standby using a surrounding material under tension and then to write either by reducing the pressure on the PR by expanding the housing structure with one PE or by increasing the pressure on the PR by expanding a second PE in contact with the PR.

A basic memory element described herein includes two PETs configured in a cross point array with one PET having a hysteric PR layer and the other having a non hysteric PR layer. With the ability to fabricate several layers of this material including intervening non conductive layers with high yield strength the footprint of each element in a memory array can be small for example one PET footprint with two PETs vertically stacked plus the associated wiring. As described in the Newns et al. publication mentioned above Piezotronics has Dennard scaling.

Referring initially to and there is shown a schematic cross sectional diagram of a 3 terminal hysteretic piezo effect transistor HPET in and corresponding electrical symbols in . The 3 terminal HPET includes a piezoelectric PE material disposed between a gate electrode and a common electrode a piezoresistor PR material disposed between the common electrode and a sense electrode and a semi rigid high yield material HYM serving as a housing that surrounds the materials and electrodes. A PE material is a material that may either expand or contract when an electric potential is applied across the piezoelectric material while a PR material in the present context is a material that changes resistivity with applied mechanical stress so as to transition from an insulator to a conductor. A medium between the HYM and the various electrode PE and PR materials may remain as a void or be filled with a soft solid material or a gas e.g. air .

In the diagram of illustrating gate common and sense contacts of the HPET the left symbol with the small circle at the gate electrode is used when the voltage of the gate is less than the voltage of the common. The right symbol is used when the gate voltage is greater than the common. Piezoelectrics are polled at fabrication for a fixed voltage direction during use.

In operation an input voltage coupled to the gate electrode and the common electrode is applied across the PE material which causes an expansion and displacement of the PE crystal material that in turn acts on the PR material via the HYM . That is the induced pressure from the PE crystal material causes an insulator to metal transition so that the PR material provides a conducting path between the common electrode and the sense electrode . The HYM ensures that the PE crystal material displacement is transmitted to the PR material rather than the surrounding medium .

An alternative to the 3 terminal HPET design is illustrated in which depicts a schematic cross sectional diagram of a 4 terminal piezo effect transistor 4PET . As is the case for the HPET the 4PET in includes a PE crystal material . Here however instead of being disposed between a gate electrode and a common electrode the PE material is disposed between a first gate electrode also labeled gate and a second gate electrode also labeled gate . A low permittivity insulator layer separates the second gate electrode gate from a first sense electrode also labeled sense 1 . Effectively the common electrode of the 3 terminal configuration is split into the gate electrode and the sense 1 electrode for a 4 terminal configuration.

The insulator layer separating the gate and sense 1 terminals may a relatively high Young s modulus such as in the range of about 60 gigapascals GPa to about 250 GPa for example a relatively low dielectric constant e.g. about 4 12 and a high breakdown field. Suitable insulator materials thus include for example silicon dioxide SiO or silicon nitride SiN . As further depicted in a PR material is disposed between the first sense electrode sense 1 and a second sense electrode also labeled sense 2 . Similar to the 3 terminal HPET embodiment the 4 terminal PET includes a high yield strength material such as silicon dioxide SiO or silicon nitride SiN which surrounds and encapsulates all of the components described above. Again there is a gap or vacant space between the various layers of the 4 terminal PET and the high yield material which increases the freedom of mechanical displacement of the layers.

The electrodes in the 4 terminal PET may include materials such as strontium ruthenium oxide SrRuO SRO platinum Pt tungsten W or other suitable mechanically hard conducting materials. The PE may include a relaxor piezoelectric such as PMN PT lead magnesium niobate lead titanate or PZN PT lead zinc niobate lead titanate or other PE materials typically made from perovskite titanates. Such PE materials have a large value of displacement V d e.g. d 2500 pm V support a relatively high piezoelectric strain 1 and have a relatively high endurance making them ideal for the PET application. The PE could also include another material such as PZT lead zirconate titanate . The PR is a material which undergoes an insulator to metal transition under a relatively low pressure in a range such as 0.4 3.0 GPa. Some examples of PR material include samarium selenide SmSe thulium telluride TmTe nickel disulfide diselenide Ni SSe vanadium oxide VO doped with a small percentage of Cr calcium ruthenium oxide CaRuO etc.

A circuit symbol for the 4 terminal PET is shown in which schematically depicts a common contact being split into gate and sense 1 terminals by a low permittivity insulator. The gate terminal is relabeled gate and the sense terminal relabeled sense 2 .

In operation of the 4 terminal PET an input voltage between gate and gate may be always positive or zero. When the input voltage is zero the PE material has no displacement and the PR material is uncompressed giving it a high electrical resistance such that the 4 terminal PET is off . When a significant positive voltage is applied between gate and gate the PE material develops a positive strain. That is the PE material expands upwards along the axis perpendicular to the stack. The upward expansion of the PE material tries to compress the high Young s modulus insulator but the main effect is to compress the more compressible PR material . The compressive action is effective because the surrounding high yield strength material strongly constrains the relative motion of the top of the sense 2 electrode and the bottom of the gate electrode . The combined effect of the mechanical compression of the PR material by the constrained stack and the PR material piezoresistive response is to lower the sense 1 electrode to sense 2 electrode impedance by about 3 5 orders of magnitude under conditions where the input voltage is the designed line voltage VDD. The PET switch is now on .

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram of an individual two PET 2 PET memory element for an array incorporating a 3 terminal HPET storage transistor such as in and a 4PET access transistor such as in in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. The memory element is coupled to a pair of control lines b bit line and w word line . The gate electrode g of the HPET storage transistor is coupled to the word line as is a first gate electrode g of the 4PET access transistor . Both the sense electrode s of the HPET storage transistor and a second gate electrode g of the 4PET access transistor are coupled to ground. The common electrode c of the HPET storage transistor is coupled to a first sense electrode s of the 4PET access transistor while a second sense electrode s of the 4PET access transistor is coupled to the bit line . A switch may be included in the peripheral logic to couple to separate read sense and write voltages V V for the bit line b. The switch may also be implemented using a PET device in lieu of an FET device.

As summarized in the table of the word line w is at a voltage of H 2 in a standby mode and at voltage H in a Read Write mode. The word line is also at voltage H 2 when a different word line in the array is being written No Write . When the word line is at H 2 potential the 4PET access transistor is OFF and when w is at H potential the access transistor is ON . To implement a Write 0 operation corresponding to establishing a high resistance in the HPET storage transistor the word line w and the bit line b are both at potential H such that V V 0. This places the HPET storage transistor at P0 which then writes a 0 on return to Standby. To implement a Write 1 operation corresponding to establishing a low resistance in the HPET storage transistor the word line w is at potential H and the bit line b is at potential 0 ground such that V V H. This places the HPET storage transistor at P1 which then writes a 1 on return to Standby. Finally for a read operation the cell is accessed by setting w H and b H 2 such that V V H 2 for the bit to remain stable during the read process .

It should be noted that the common electrode voltage Vis independent of the state of the HPET storage transistor if the ON resistance for the 4PET access transistor is significantly less than the ON resistance in the HPET storage transistor i.e. RR. The dynamic range of R1 is assumed to be relatively small to enable these conditions.

In considering a memory array having N columns and M rows M has to be smaller than R R as follows. The current to write a 0 in a single memory element is the voltage drop from b to ground which is H divided by the summed resistance of the 4PET access transistor and the HPET storage transistor . The resistance of the on state 4PET access transistor R is much lower than the on state resistance in the HPET storage transistor R thus the HPET storage transistor in the memory element dominates the total resistance regardless of its state. Therefore the current through all N columns is 0.5 N H R if half the memory cells in a row are in the low resistance on state. The leakage current through all of the other rows and all of the columns is 0.5 N M 1 H Rfor off resistance Rin the 4PET access transistor . Again this assumes half the memory elements are in the low resistance state with R

During the read process leakage current enters each bit line b from the rows that are not being read. These rows have resistance Rin all of their 4PET access transistors . There is a voltage drop of H 2 across each combination of 4PET and HPET. If half of the HPETs in a no read column are in the on state with resistance R0.5 M 1 which is the same as the condition for an efficient write to within a factor of 2.

In any case during the switch from Standby to Read the bit line is assumed to change voltage from 0 to H 2 instantly at some time before the write line changes and the write line is assumed to increase voltage with time from H 2 to H as H 2 2 e for rate . It will be noted that the bit line can change to H 2 one or more clock cycles before the word line voltage starts to increase because as long as the word line is H 2 the 4PET access transistor is off and the bit line voltage does not reach the HPET storage transistor . Specifically illustrates the case 1 in units of the RCtime constant where Cis the capacitance of the PE in the HPET storage transistor and Ris the on state resistance in the HPET storage transistor . The x axis is the quantity t RC which ranges from 1 to 2.5 whereas the y axis is both the normalized voltage drop V V H and the normalized current IR H in the 4PET access transistor . The resistance Ris assumed to swing 4 orders of magnitude from 0.1Rto 1000R. In Read this means that the read current through resistor Rwhen the HPET storage transistor has a logic value 1 is 1000 times the current through an unselected row which has to pass through R 1000R thereby allowing on the order of M 1000 rows compatible with the ability to see the read value 1 signal. Reading a value 0 through resistor R is distinguished by a lower current. Similarly in Write the leakage current through the unselected rows is of the same order as the write current to the selected row in this case.

The memory cell of utilizes a constant voltage supply on the word line w with a value of either H or H 2. Leakage current through the piezoelectric which is nominally a capacitor should be minimized to avoid excessive energy dissipation. The leakage current through a PMN PT piezoelectric with an electric field of 4 10V m equals 10A cm. This value is also expected for a design where the applied voltage is about 0.1 V and the PE thickness is about 25 nm. With a leakage current of 10A cmfor each PET a memory with 10PETs each with an area of 30 nm has a total leakage current of 10A or a total leakage power of 10Watts. This is negligible compared to the other power dissipated.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram of an alternative embodiment of a 2 PET memory element . For ease of description similar elements are designated with the same reference numerals. With respect to the memory element of the memory element of includes separate control lines for the HPET storage transistor and the 4PET access transistor . Specifically the word line is coupled only to the 4PET access transistor . The gate electrode gof the HPET storage transistor is coupled to a separate control line which is biased to a constant potential H 2.

Operation of the memory element is understood with reference to the table in . In Standby the word line is set to w 0 to turn the 4PET access transistor off. In Read Write the word line is set to w H to turn the 4PET access transistor on. In the specific case of a Write the word line is set to w H while the two PETs reach equilibrium. To write a 0 the bit line is set to b H 2 establishing V V 0 and placing the HPET storage transistor at P0 which then writes a 0 on return to Standby. To write a 1 the bit line is set to b H 2 establishing V V H and placing the HPET storage transistor at P1 which then writes a 1 on return to Standby.

The steady voltage on the HPET gate as a result of the separate control line removes the possibility that the V Vwrite voltage and resulting current may swing into a damaging range . In Read the row is accessed by setting the word line to w H and the HPET bit is preserved by setting the bit line to b H 2 which is a non zero voltage that is much smaller than H 2 then V V H 2 1 for 

The write current and leakage currents of the memory element are the same as in the embodiment of . In addition the constraint on leakage through the piezoelectric elements is also the same as in the embodiment of .

As indicated above the embodiments described above are examples of volatile PET memory designs in that the memory states are not preserved upon removal of voltage from the word and bit lines. Accordingly is a schematic cross sectional diagram of a dual polarity hysteretic piezo effect transistor HPETDP in accordance with another embodiment. This dual polarity 4 terminal PET design is useful for memory in which the voltage drop across the HPET has to be either positive or negative with an equilibrium position in between.

As shown in the 4 terminal HPETDP includes a first PE material PE 1 disposed between a gate electrode and a common electrode . A second PE material PE 2 is disposed between the gate electrode and a negate electrode . In addition a PR material is disposed between the common electrode and a sense electrode with an HYM serving as a strength medium surrounding the materials and electrodes. A medium between the HYM and the various electrode PE and PR materials may remain as a void or be filled with a soft solid material or a gas e.g. air .

In this arrangement the first piezoelectric PE 1 is in direct force contact with the PR and the second piezoelectric PE 2 is in force contact with the surrounding HYM . When there is no voltage drop across either PE the HYM and PE combination exert a static pressure on the PR causing the PR resistance to be in the bi stable state. When there is a voltage drop across PE 1 from the gate to the common terminal and the voltage drop across PE 2 is zero PE 1 expands into the PR and causes the PR resistance to drop from the bi stable state to the ON state conducting bit value 1 . According to a voltage drop across PE1 equal to H 2 is enough to cause this PR resistance drop because the equilibrium state is already bi stable. On the other hand a voltage drop of H 2 from the gate to the negate terminals across PE 2 combined with no voltage drop across PE 1 causes PE 2 to expand into the HYM walls and relieve the pressure on the PR leading to an increase in the PR resistance to the OFF state bit value 0 . In this manner the HPETDP may switch between a high resistance state and a low resistance state compared to an equilibrium state of intermediate resistance. The HYM walls are slightly flexible and built to the pressure specification of the PR in the bi stable state. is an electrical symbol for the 4 terminal HPETDP of .

In lieu of the side by side arrangement of the first and second PE materials of illustrates an alternative embodiment of a PETDP . In this embodiment the second piezoelectric PE 2 and negate electrode are arranged as a ring like structure that surrounds the first piezoelectric PE 1 PR common electrode and sense electrode . This structure exhibits a more uniform force on the HYM when the PE 2 material is caused to expand.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic cross sectional diagram of a dual resistance piezo effect transistor PET2R in accordance with another embodiment. The dual resistance PET2R is a 5 terminal device that includes a single PE and two PRs acting as separate resistors. The combination of a PE layer with two or more PR layers allows greater flexibility in circuit design which may be contrasted with CMOS technology in which analogous devices in this regard are not possible.

As more specifically shown in the 5 terminal PET2R includes a PE material disposed between a gate electrode and first and second common electrodes also labeled common 1 and common 2 . A first PR material PR 1 is disposed between the first common electrode and a first sense electrode sense 1 . Similarly a second PR material PR 2 is disposed between the second common electrode and a second sense electrode sense 2 . An HYM serves as a strength medium surrounding the materials and electrodes. Further a medium between the HYM and the various electrode PE and PR materials may remain as a void or be filled with a soft solid material or a gas e.g. air .

Using the 4 terminal HPETDP device of in combination with a 5 terminal PET2R device of enables the formation of a nonvolatile 3 terminal memory element as illustrated in . In this embodiment the memory element includes a 4 terminal HPETDP device as a storage transistor coupled to a 5 terminal PET2R device serving as an access transistor. The common terminals common 1 common 2 of the PET2R are respectively connected to a pair of bit lines b b while the gate terminal of the PET2R is connected to a word line w . The first sense terminal sense 1 of the PET2R is connected to the common terminal of the HPETDP and the second sense terminal sense 2 of the PET2R is connected to the negate terminal of the HPETDP . The gate and sense terminals of the HPETDP are connected to ground.

Operation of the memory element is further understood with reference to the table of . An equilibrium state of the HPETDP is established when the common and negate terminals have 0 voltage and the HPETDP is in the stable state with a bit value of 0 or 1 . To enable a write operation the write line voltage is set to w H so as to turn the PET2R on for zero or negative bit line voltages. To write a 0 i.e. set a high resistance in the HPETDP the bpotential is set to H 2 so that the gate negate voltage drop across the HPETDP is H 2. In addition the bpotential is set to 0 such that PE 1 is fixed and the PR resistance in the HPETDP increases to its high state. To write a 1 i.e. set a low resistance in the HPETDP the bpotential is set to H 2 so that the gate common voltage drop HPETDP is H 2. In addition the bpotential is set to zero such that the PR resistance in the HPETDP drops to the low state. The voltage at the common terminal of the in the HPETDP is independent of the state of the HPET only if the ON resistance for the PET2R is significantly less than the ON resistance in the HPETDP i.e. R

For a read operation in a row the write line voltage is set to w H in that row and the bpotential is set to H 2 which is not low enough to change the state of the HPETDP . The current is sensed through the bline with a total voltage drop of H 2.

There is a current through both on state PET2Rs and HPETDPs during the write. If half of the HPETDPs in a row are on then the current equals 0.5 NH Rfor a memory with N columns and M rows. The non write rows have a leakage current through their off state PET2Rs in the amount of 0.5 N M 1 H Rconsidering that R R. The write row dominates if R R M 1 as in the previous designs.

During the read process leakage current enters each bline from the rows that are not being read. These rows have resistance Rin all of their PET2Rs. There is a voltage drop of H 2 across each combination of PET2R and HPETDP. If half of the HPETDPs in a no read column are in the on state with resistance R0.5 M 1 as in the previous designs.

In the absence of reading or writing the memory element in should have w 0 so all PET2Rs are off and b b 0 so the HPETDP has its equilibrium state. There is no leakage current through any of the PETs in this standby state because all voltages are zero. The state of the memory in the HPETDP remains and therefore the memory is nonvolatile in contrast to the designs of .

The energy required to write a row of memory includes charging the word line and all of the attached gate capacitances for that row as well as charging all the bit lines. To charge a gate in an HPET or PET requires an energy 0.5VC for voltage V and gate capacitance C in the PE. The capacitance in a PE having an area of 30 nm and a height of 30 nm equals about 0.3 femtofarads fF assuming a dielectric constant of 1000 . Each device has two PETs or 0.6 fF capacitance. The energy required to charge a device is then 0.012 femtojoules 0 for V 0.2 Volts. For a 1000 1000 block of memory each bit line is about 100 m long and considering a capacitance of the wire equal to 2 pF cm a bit line capacitance is 20 fF. The single word line wire capacitance of 20 fF is thus dominated by the 2000 gate capacitances on that word line totaling 600 fF but the capacitance of the write operation is dominated by that of all the bit lines which is 20 pF. Thus the bit line capacitance dominates the energy consumption of the memory without much dependence on the PET devices themselves.

If the memory is addressed at a rate of 1 GHz for 64 lines in parallel which have a total capacitance of 1.28 pF the power required is 0.5VC 10Hz or 25 W for V 0.2V. This estimate focuses narrowly on the power required locally in the memory block for only 64 bits. The main point is that the power to write all of the PET devices is small compared to the power to charge the bit lines because the capacitance of each bit line exceeds the summed capacitances of the HPET and PET that are being written.

The power to write a PET memory is less than DRAM because the PET operates at a lower voltage the PET memory is preserved for as long as the bias voltages are applied and in the third design here the PET memory is preserved even when all the voltages are zero. For the same wiring capacitance in DRAM and the same energy per write the PET power is less than the DRAM power in proportion to the refresh rate. Typically DRAM has to refresh at a rate of about 16 or more times per second and PETs need far fewer refresh. The lower voltage of the PET memory saves additional energy because energy scales as the square of the voltage for a given capacitance.

Optimal operation of a PET occurs when the RC time is comparable to the sonic time. The sonic time in a PET with 30 nm height is about 10 ps. With the 0.3 fF capacitance given above this corresponds to a total resistance in the wire and the PR of 30 000 Ohms.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment or embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

