---

title: High frequency analysis of a device under test
abstract: Analyzing a device under test (“DUT”) at higher frequencies. A phase shifter varies the phase of a standing wave on a transmission line coupled to the DUT. The standing wave magnitude is sampled at each of the phase shifts and one or more DUT characteristics are determined as a function of the sampled magnitudes and phase shifts. Further aspects include a related phase shifter comprising a waveguide having a plurality of sub-resonant slots formed therein and having active elements for loading the slots to control the phase shift applied to the signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081045&OS=09081045&RS=09081045
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 09081045
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120601
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of contract No. FA8103 07 C 0193 awarded by the U.S. Air Force.

Measurement of transmitted and reflected millimeter wave and microwave signals is useful for characterizing the properties of a device under test. Such properties typically measured by a vector network analyzer include the complex i.e. magnitude and phase reflection and transmission coefficients. Devices under test are for example high frequency circuit components equipment that performs material characterization or nondestructive testing and evaluation imaging systems high frequency transceivers and ranging systems. Currently taking measurements of transmitted and or reflected signals at high frequencies involves expensive vector network analyzers which employ phased locked input sources and heterodyne detection processes to isolate or determine the frequencies to be measured. In addition to being prohibitively expensive current vector network analyzers are considered bulky for applications where handheld customized and or special purpose measurement modules are needed.

Accurate vector measurement of high frequency signals i.e. their magnitude and phase reflected back from and transmitted through a device under test DUT helps characterize the electrical performance of the DUT. By way of analogy demonstrates these signals as a wave directed towards a slab wherein the slab reflects and or transmits an incident wave . diagrammatically illustrates the incident wave striking the slab a reflected wave and a transmitted wave . Based on measurements of the reflected and or transmitted waves the DUT can be characterized using known methods to determine its properties such as its electrical impedance or the amount of signal distortion it causes to the supplied signal.

Among measurement devices known in the prior art for the measurement of the phase and magnitude of high frequency signals illustrate their operation. As shown in a vector network analyzer VNA generally indicated as operably connects a stimulus source e.g. a built in phased locked oscillator to a DUT . The source supplies an incident signal to the DUT . In a conventional test set up a plurality of directional coupling devices separate the incident signal from a reflected signal and a transmitted signal . In turn a receiver detector collects the signals via the multiple directional coupling devices . In a typical vector network analyzer such as VNA the detector receiver comprises a tuned receiver such as a super heterodyne receiver allowing a high frequency input signal to be translated to a lower frequency through a process known in the art as down conversion. The VNA uses a reference signal e.g. the incident signal or a signal supplied from a second high frequency source phase locked to the primary stimulus source in the down converting process to mix with other signals. To down mix the signals in this manner VNA must maintain signal separation and prevent the signals from interacting to form a combined or standing wave.

Other exemplary prior art techniques for measuring the phase and magnitude of high frequency signals are illustrated in . As shown these additional methods do not utilize heterodyne tuned receivers. illustrates a slotted line method of measuring a complex reflection coefficient of a standing wave. This method utilizes a single detector probe to gather measurements on a transmission line . However the probe must be physically moved along the length of the transmission line to obtain the multiple measurements needed to accurately measure the complex reflection coefficient. Since the distance between the DUT not shown and the detector is a factor in the complex coefficient calculation each change in position must be accurately measured and recorded contemporaneously with the corresponding transmission line measurement. This repeated repositioning and distance measuring makes automation burdensome adding to the cost and complexity of implementing the slotted line method shown in .

Referring now to a sampled line method requires at least three fixed detector probes along a length of transmission line to obtain the desired measurements unambiguously. Although this prior art method avoids the repositioning of a single detector probe see probe interaction and non identical probes introduce measurement errors that significantly affect measurement accuracy.

Another method known in the art for measuring incident and reflected signals is the so called perturbation two port PTP method illustrated in . The PTP method is based on using a combination of two port perturbation PTP networks inserted before the DUT and a scalar network analyzer i.e. high quality reflectometer realized with a directional coupler . Multiple PTP networks each representing different electrical characteristics are required. Each PTP network changes transforms the sought DUT reflection coefficient appearing at the input of the scalar network analyzer . When these multiple PTP networks are used along with a multi step calibration routine the sought after reflection coefficient can be determined both magnitude and phase after measuring the magnitude of the reflection coefficient seen at the input of the scalar network analyzer. Like the prior art VNA described above with respect to the PTP method demands signal separation. In the PTP method embodied in directional couplers within the implementation of the scalar network analyzer are again required to maintain separation between the incident and reflected signals. Furthermore the PTP method requires that some of the used PTP networks have losses associated with them. Without signal separation and lossy PTP networks the PTP method fails to work.

The conventional VNA in maintains signal separation of the incident reflected and transmitted signals and employs one or more specialized tuned heterodyne receivers to selectively isolate and analyze the signals collected all of which increase the size cost and complexity of the device. Other prior art devices described above perform measurements without heterodyne procedures but due to limitations inherent in their designs measurement inaccuracies significantly undermine the useful operation of these devices. As noted above it remained for the present inventors to discover a method and system of measuring the transmitted and reflected signals of a device under test without the cost and complexity of a tuned receiver requiring directional coupling devices or the introduction of significant inaccuracies in the measurement process.

According to aspects of the invention generating and manipulating the phase of a standing wave on a transmission line coupled to a device under test permits measuring the characteristics e.g. phase and magnitude of the transmitted and reflected wave signal associated with the device.

Briefly a method for analyzing a device under test embodying aspects of the invention includes generating a standing wave on a transmission line coupled to the device under test varying the phase of the standing wave with a phase shifter and sampling the magnitude of the standing wave at each of a plurality of phase shifts. The method further includes determining at least one characteristic representative of the device under test as a function of the sampled magnitude of the standing wave and the plurality of phase shifts.

Another aspect of the invention is directed to a system for analyzing a device under test. The system includes a transmission line for coupling a signal source to the device under test. The signal source in turn provides a signal incident to the device under test. The signal incident to the device under test and a signal reflected from the device under test form a standing wave on the transmission line. The system also includes a phase shifter for varying the phase of the standing wave and a detector probe coupled to the transmission line for sampling a magnitude of the standing wave at each of a plurality of phase shift values. At least one characteristic representative of the device under test is determined as a function of the sampled magnitude of the standing wave on the transmission line and the plurality of phase shift values.

In another aspect a vector network analyzer for determining phase and magnitude of signals at a frequency greater than very high frequency includes a phase shifter receiving and responsive to a phase control signal for applying a phase shift to a standing wave on a transmission line. The transmission line is coupled to a port of a device under test and a transmission line probe coupled to the transmission line samples a magnitude of the standing wave on the transmission line at each of a plurality of phase shift values. The probe is configured to generate a detector signal that corresponds to the sampled magnitude of the standing wave and a processor receiving and responsive to the detector signal from the transmission line probe determines at least one characteristic representative of the devices as a function of the sampled magnitude of the standing wave on the transmission line. In addition the processor is configured for generating the phase shifter control signal.

A phase shifter coupled with a transmission line for applying a phase shift to a signal on the transmission line embodies further aspects of the invention. The phase shifter includes a waveguide having a plurality of slots formed therein. The slots each have dimensions that are sub resonant with respect to a wavelength of the signal which is at a frequency greater than very high frequency and have an active element corresponding thereto for loading the slots to control the phase shift applied to the signal.

In accordance with aspects of the present invention proper use of a combination of a transmission line a detector and a phase shifter eliminates the need for expensive heterodyne tuned receiver detection schemes.

Referring now to a vector network analyzer VNA embodying aspects of the present invention is shown in block diagram form. Advantageously the VNA is capable of obtaining measurements of signals at frequencies greater than very high frequency including microwave and millimeter frequency signals for analyzing performance characteristics of a device under test DUT . The DUT can be for example a radar antenna etc.

In one embodiment VNA comprises a transmission line coupled to an input port of the DUT . In this embodiment the transmission line is configured to transmit signals along its length to and from DUT as shown in . The transmission line can be but is not limited to a waveguide coaxial line or a micro strip line. When an appropriate source signal is supplied to transmission line a resulting standing wave is formed along the length of the transmission line as a function of the superposition of an incident signal and a reflected signal from the input port of the DUT propagating in opposite directions.

Referring further to the embodiment of the VNA comprises a transmission line coupled with a controlled phase shifter an embodiment of which is described below. The exemplary embodiment demonstrated in shows a wave source capable of generating signals greater than very high frequency. The source is coupled to the transmission line see node of . In the illustrated embodiment this combination of elements allows for the generation of standing waves along a length of transmission line due to the coherent addition of the signal applied to the input of the transmission line from the signal source and the signal reflected from the port of the DUT . According to aspects of the present invention the controlled phase shifter permits changes to the phase characteristics of the resulting standing wave.

An embodiment of the phase shifter of the present invention is shown in . In this embodiment phase shifter utilizes a plurality of sub resonant slots formed in a printed circuit board PCB used as a wall of a rectangular waveguide . According to aspects of the invention loading the slots with active elements allows phase shifts to be applied to the standing wave generated along the length of transmission line . The slots are configured to have a length L and width W such that the slots are sub resonant with respect to the wavelength of the signals being measured. In other words the slots do not radiate efficiently. Additionally the slots are configured to have a same row slots center to center separation S and a slot to waveguide edge separation s over the total waveguide length L and width a see element .

In the slots are cut out into a printed circuit board PCB forming the broad wall of the rectangular waveguide . In an alternative embodiment the slots are on the narrow wall. The slots are formed in a longitudinal or transverse direction in the wall of the waveguide . demonstrates slots configured in a transverse direction. It is contemplated that the slots can be placed or configured in any such manner that provides sufficient interaction with the current following on the walls of the waveguide . For example if slots are placed on or near the centerline and rotated ninety degrees from the slot orientation demonstrated in the slots would be orthogonal to the current flow in the waveguide . The slots can be formed in a variety of configurations to achieve sufficient phase shifts. However slots should be placed in a manner that minimally disturbs the standing wave shape and optimally affects the current flow on the wall of the waveguide . Additionally slots should have sub resonant dimensions L and W such that the slots do not cause signal reflection in and or radiation from the waveguide . In the illustrated embodiment the slots are loaded with active elements such as PIN diodes thereby allowing for electronic control of the applied phase shift.

In the example of nine PIN diode loaded slots are demonstrated and turning each PIN diode on and off using control direct current dc bias allows for distinctive phase shifts to be applied to the signal on the transmission line . The phase shifter of is provided by way of example and not limitation and it should be understood that other slot configurations and active elements exist and are within the scope of the present invention.

The phase shifter can be calibrated using for example a high accuracy vector network analyzer to directly measure the scattering parameters of the phase shifter for use in the mathematical model described below. Otherwise the phase shifter may be calibrated using a total of six known loads connected at the test port . Using the measurements of these six loads the scattering parameters of the phase shifter can be determined by solving a set of six nonlinear equations.

Referring again to the embodiment illustrated in at least one transmission line probe is coupled to the transmission line to sample the standing wave created on the transmission line at a plurality of different phase shifts. The probe is further configured to generate a detector signal that corresponds to the sampled magnitude of the standing wave signal. In one embodiment the probe is an active element such as a diode. A diode will produce a dc signal that is proportional to the magnitude of the sampled standing wave. Advantageously varying the phase shift applied to the standing wave permits a plurality of samples to be taken without altering the placement of the probe or requiring multiple probes as required in the prior art devices. Advantageously eliminating the need to move the probe relative to the standing wave and eliminating the need for multiple probes prevents the resulting errors from being introduced into the sampled measurements. As a result the generated information representative of a device under test is more accurate while minimizing VNA cost and complexity. In an alternative embodiment a plurality of probes are coupled to the transmission line to sample the standing wave created on the transmission line at a plurality of different phase shifts allowing for greater sampling accuracy over a wideband of frequencies.

In another embodiment the processor outputs the representative information to a display device or other suitable output device such as but not limited to memory storage hard drive storage or a printing device. In other embodiments of the present invention the signal source and or phase shifter are configured to communicate information to the processor as well.

Referring further to the processor provides control signal to the phase shifter for setting the phase shift provides control signal for setting the operating parameters of the signal source e.g. frequency and magnitude level provides switch control signal to turn the switch on and off and processes the resultant detector signal at each applied phase shift. In one embodiment the processor operating in response to stored computer instructions automatically shifts the phase and or sweeps through frequencies and determines the representative information in real time. In other embodiments of the present invention the processor operates in response to manual operator control such as but not limited to keypad or keyboard entry dial settings or switches.

In an alternative embodiment VNA also includes a switched directional isolating element coupled to a second port of the DUT . In this embodiment the switched directional isolating element comprises a switch and an isolator as shown in . When an appropriate source signal is supplied to the transmission line a resulting standing wave is formed along the length of the transmission line as a function of the superposition of incident signal and reflected signal from the input port as well as a through test signal passing through the DUT via port to port . As before incident signal and reflected signal propagate in opposite directions. Likewise incident signal and through test signal propagate in opposite directions. When the directional isolating element is turned off in response to a switch control a one port i.e. reflection measurement can be conducted. On the other hand when directional isolating element is turned on a two port transmission and reflection measurement can be conducted. This combination of elements allows for the generation of standing waves along a length of transmission line due to the coherent addition of the signal applied to the input of the transmission line from the signal source and the signal reflected from the port of the DUT as well as the signal transmitted through the DUT when the directional isolating element is turned on. When the isolating element is turned on the transmitted signal is observed by the isolator . As with the signal source and the phase shifter directional isolating element may also be configured to communicate information to the processor .

The following mathematical models can be used to characterize the DUT as a function of the applied phase shift and detector samples via probe when the VNA is configured to measure the reflected signal only i.e. switch is turned off 1 1 2 . . .

S i 1 2 j 1 2 Phase shifter scattering parameters as a function of the phase shift as determined either through direct independent VNA measurements or solving six nonlinear equations using the measurement of six known loads .

The M system of nonlinear equations can be solved e.g. using the Newton Gauss method to find S. S parameters are used by the present invention as it is typically difficult to measure total current or voltage at higher frequencies.

Several experiments were conducted on an automated prototype VNA system using embodiments of the current invention to confirm its operation. The developed prototype VNA performance was verified against the commercially available HP8510C vector network analyzer VNA . Referring to the experimental results illustrated in the prototype VNA using a voltage controlled phase shifter and the HP8510C were both used to measure the reflection coefficient of various DUTs at 10 GHz. The utilized DUTs represented a wide range of devices of various reflection properties. The magnitude of the reflection coefficient of the utilized DUT ranged from 2 dB to 30 dB and its phase ranged from 0 to 360 degrees. A DUT with these ranges advantageously spans the entire range of possible reflection measurements as represented by the circle of unity radius in .

The prototype VNA was configured with an electronic phase shifter capable of a type different from the embodiment illustrated in of provided three phase shifts settings M 3 in response to dc control voltage. The phase shifter was independently calibrated. compares the experimental vector reflection measurements in polar form obtained using the prototype VNA and the HP8510C VNA for the same DUT. As demonstrated in the exemplary results in both devices produced comparable results. demonstrates the experimentally measured magnitude of the reflection coefficient for the variable DUT using both the prototype VNA and the commercially available HP8510C VNA. It is important to observe the linearity of the response of the prototype VNA embodying certain aspects of the present invention and how well these experimental results compare to the much more expensive HP8510C VNA.

As shown the prototype VNA exemplary experimental measurements closely match those of the HP8510C VNA. These exemplary experimental results confirm the operation of the developed VNA and approach for vector reflection coefficient measurement with accuracy comparable to the commercial expensive and complex HP8510C VNA. It also highlights the desired linearity of the detection scheme.

In another preferred embodiment the controlled phase shifter is a commercially available phase shifter capable of providing discrete phase shifts to signals on a transmission line . The commercially available phase shifter must be capable of providing accurate discrete phase shifts for the wave region to be measured while weakly perturbing the signals.

In yet another preferred embodiment the controlled phase shifter is a phase shifter embodying aspects of where such a phase shifter permits measurements at higher frequencies.

In another preferred embodiment the signal can be externally supplied with the signal source configured to receive control signals from the processor for controlling the characteristics of the supplied signal. In another embodiment the signal source is configured for independent source control.

In operation a method embodying aspects of the invention includes generating a standing wave on a transmission line coupled to the device under test varying the phase of the standing wave with a phase shifter and sampling the magnitude of the standing wave at each of a plurality of phase shifts. Further the method determines at least one characteristic representative of the device under test as a function of the sampled magnitude of the standing wave and the plurality of phase shifts. Such characteristics include but are not limited to phase and magnitude of the reflected signal or the transmitted signal dielectric properties of the DUT calculated as a function of the phase and magnitude of the reflected signal and structural properties of the DUT .

In operation a system embodying aspects of the invention analyzes a device under test . The system includes a transmission line for coupling a signal source to the device under test wherein the signal source provides a signal incident to the device under test and wherein the signal incident to the device under test and a signal reflected from the device under test form a standing wave on the transmission line . The system is further comprised of a phase shifter for varying the phase of the standing wave and a detector probe coupled to the transmission line for sampling a magnitude of the standing wave at each of a plurality of phase shift values. Thus at least one characteristic representative of device under test is determined as a function of the sampled magnitude of the standing wave on the transmission line and the plurality of phase shift values.

In operation a vector network analyzer embodying aspects of the invention determines the phase and magnitude of signals at a frequency greater than very high frequency for a device under test . The vector network analyzer includes a phase shifter receiving and responsive to a phase control signal for applying a phase shift to a standing wave on a transmission line said transmission line being coupled to a port of the DUT and a transmission line probe coupled to the transmission line for sampling a magnitude of the standing wave on the transmission line at each of a plurality of phase shift values said probe being configured to generate a detector signal that corresponds to the sampled magnitude of the standing wave. In this instance the vector network analyzer further comprises a processor receiving and responsive to the detector signal from the transmission line probe for determining at least one characteristic representative of the DUT as a function of the sampled magnitude of the standing wave on the transmission line said processor being further configured for generating the phase shifter control signal.

In another embodiment the present invention is a phase shifter coupled with a transmission line for applying a phase shift to a signal on the transmission line said signal being at a frequency greater than very high frequency said phase shifter comprising a waveguide having a plurality of slots formed therein said slots each having dimensions that are sub resonant with respect to a wavelength of the signal on the transmission line and said slots each having an active element corresponding thereto for loading the slots to control the phase shift applied to the signal.

While specific embodiments are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations can be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

