---

title: Disseminating targeted location-based content to mobile device users
abstract: A trusted third party information arbiter for facilitating third party information sources, such as advertisers or data processing services, to accurately target communications to mobile device users. Illustratively, the mobile device users can control target communications through the utilization of discretion requests/permissions processed by the third party information arbiter. Furthermore, the mobile device users may further interact with the trusted third party information arbiter to provide/release additional personal information. For example, a mobile device user may be provided an increasingly rich rewards or payments that may be provisioned by discount, coupons or offers associated with existing or new product advertisements or promotional information messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626201&OS=08626201&RS=08626201
owner: Aegis Mobility, Inc.
number: 08626201
owner_city: Vancouver
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121005
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 436 027 entitled Disseminating Targeted Location Based Content to Mobile Device Users and filed May 5 2009 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 235 535 entitled Disseminating Targeted Location Based Content to Mobile Device Users and filed Sep. 22 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 224 353 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 974 044 entitled System for Disseminating Targeted Location Based Content To Mobile Device Users While Maintaining User Privacy filed Sep. 20 2007 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The advent of location aware GPS enabled and internet data enabled mobile phones and electronic communication devices has enabled a variety of location aware and information provisioning services. The combination of available technology and an exploding advertising industry that is undergoing a rapid change from traditional print and advertising TV media to internet data advertising placement has fuelled the growth of companies. The current advertising and marketing paradigm is shifting from delivering advertisements and other information from computer screens to that of mobile phones and other mobile devices.

Early services are simply attempting to enable agencies to directly target or push unsolicited advertisements coupons offers or information to mobile phone users. These services are also exploiting GPS and other location aware technologies to reach specific cell phone and communication device users who may be geographically located in a particular region of interest. This class of service is notionally known as a location based advertising service.

The emergence of these services has substantially impacted users privacy because the advertising agency has often learned much about the subscribers current and past behaviors in addition to their identities. Loss of digital identity is a very important issue and one that is rapidly gaining attention and becoming understood as more cases of identity theft and identity abuse are becoming apparent. Mobile phones internet email accounts location based services and a plethora of instant messaging systems commonly permit end service agencies the ability to extract record and exploit users digital identities and private information.

Consequently a technological solution is needed that arbitrates the desire of an advertising agency or other third party information source to deliver information unsolicited to a specific subset of mobile device users. This subset of mobile device users may be selected based e.g. on monitored user behavior time location and or personal interests while mitigating or controlling the advertiser to access or retrieve user specific identity information. By the same token the communication users may desire to exploit or trade their personal information for an increasingly rich reward or payment that may be provisioned by discount coupons or offers.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a trusted third party information arbiter that safeguards the digital identities of mobile device users while enabling third party information sources such as advertisers or data processing services to accurately target communications to such mobile device users. Illustratively the mobile device users can control target communications through the utilization of discretion requests permissions processed by the third party information arbiter. Furthermore the mobile device users may further interact with the trusted third party information arbiter to provide release additional personal information. For example a mobile device user may be provided an increasingly rich rewards or payments that may be provisioned by discount coupons or offers associated with existing or new product advertisements or promotional information messages.

A system will now be described that embodies various inventive features related to the management of communications between mobile communications devices and third party information sources. As will be recognized many of these features can be used independently of others and represent distinct inventions. Further many of the features can be implemented differently than described herein. Thus nothing in this detailed description implies that any particular feature component process step characteristic of combination of the foregoing is essential.

Generally described embodiments of the present invention correspond to systems methods and interfaces for the management of communications with a mobile device. Specifically aspects of the present invention relate to the management of communications provided to mobile device users through the utilization of mobile device profiles mobile device context information and or caller identification information to manage communications.

In accordance with a first aspect the mobile devices continuously collect or otherwise obtain various inputs corresponding to a mobile device environment. The mobile device processes some or all of the inputs with a context assessment algorithm to generate mobile device context information. The mobile device transmits the context information to a communication management system through a variety of communication methods channels. The mobile device can limit the transmission of context information to the communication management system such that context information is transmitted upon determination of a change in a previous mobile device context. Additionally the mobile device continues to transmit updated context information or updates to context information throughout various modes of operation including during an established communication.

The communication management system utilizes the mobile device context information to determine communication device availability by processing the context information with a mobile device profile. The mobile device profiles can specify what communication channels are available for particular mobile device contexts. Additionally the mobile communication device profiles can be a function of identification information such as caller ID. Still further the communication device profiles can specify communication channel mitigation options that can include a suggestion of alternative communication channels or other messages the presenting of interactive response systems and or the initiation of actions in the event the mobile device is not available to maintain a requested communication channel or an existing communication channel.

For subsequent communication requests initiated by the user of the mobile device and or a third party the communication management system processes the request according to the prior determined communication availability selected as a function of appropriate selection information such as the caller ID of the third party. Additionally in the event of a change of a mobile device context during a previously established communication channel that changes communication availability the communication management system can implement specified communication channel mitigation actions which can include the modification or termination of the existing communication channel.

In accordance with another aspect the above described communication management system is always aware of the remote end user s current context and is always notified of a change of user context as it occurs. Mobile device users can enrich their communications by allowing their at least an abstracted version of his or her current context to be reported to third party information devices via an abstraction information processing component. The abstraction information processing component allows external third party agencies such as advertising agencies major corporations health and safety emergency organizations etc. to reach target audiences with specific communication messages but without access to the remote user s specific digital identity information. Furthermore the remote end users can preferably be reached if and only if they have a priori given permission for specific classes of agency to reach them.

Although aspects of the system will be described to the drawings flow diagrams screen interfaces and specific examples one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the disclosed embodiments are illustrative in nature. Accordingly the disclosed embodiments should not be construed as limiting.

The present disclosure may be implemented in conjunction with a system that monitors the real time locations and contexts of mobile device users. Once example of such a system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 040 832 filed on Feb. 29 2008 and entitled MANAGEMENT OF MOBILE DEVICE COMMUNICATIONS SESSIONS TO REDUCE USER DISTRACTION which is hereby incorporated by reference. Accordingly although an illustrative communication management environment will be described herein one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the operation of a communication management system may include additional or alternative components interaction. Thus the described communication management system is illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrative of a communication management environment for managing mobile device communications will be described. As illustrated in the communication management environment includes a communication management system for processing requests for establishing a communication channel between a supported mobile device and a third party communication device. The communication management system maintains mobile device profiles that are provisioned to establish the availability for the mobile device to establish a communication channel as a function of mobile device context information. The communication device profiles may also be provisioned as a function of identification information of an applicable third party. As will also be described in greater detail below the communication management system determines the availability of the mobile device to establish a communication channel asynchronously to any request to establish a communication channel.

To manage requested communications or previously established communication channels the communication management system communicates with corresponding subsystems responsible for establishing the wireless communication channel such as mobile switching center and utilizes the predetermined availability information and appropriate identification information to allow reject communications. The communication management system can communicate with the mobile switching center via a direct communication connection a secure communication channel via a communication network such as communication network or via a public communication network.

Additionally the communication management system provides communication channel mitigation options in the event that the mobile device is unavailable which can include interfacing with a communication mitigation components such as a voice mail system or an interactive voice response system. The communication mitigation component may be directly associated with the communication management system . Alternatively the communication mitigation component may be provided or otherwise associated with another service provider such as mobile service provider. Still further the communication management system facilitates the generation of various graphical user interfaces for provisioning and or managing mobile device profiles via computing devices.

With continued reference to the communication management environment can include a number of mobile devices . The mobile devices can correspond to wide variety of devices or components that are capable of initiating receiving or facilitating communications over a communication network including but not limited to personal computing devices hand held computing devices integrated components for inclusion in computing devices home electronics appliances vehicles and or machinery mobile telephones modems personal digital assistants laptop computers gaming devices and the like. In an illustrative embodiment the mobile devices include a wide variety of software and hardware components for establishing communications over one or more communication networks including wireless or wired mobile communication networks . The mobile devices can be associated with one or more users for managing communication channel requests and existing communication channels according mobile device contexts.

The mobile device contexts can identify or describe aspects of the mobile device aspects of the mobile device environment and or aspects of the user associated with the mobile device. For example the mobile device context corresponds to a determination of various states of movement travel such as in a non transitory state an in transit state including city urban travel transit highway transit and in flight transit states a journey onset state and a journey termination state. In another example the mobile device context corresponds a determination of whether a mobile device s present location is within a geospatial boundary also referred to as geofencing including within the geospatial boundary on a border of the geospatial boundary or outside the geospatial boundary . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the identified mobile device contexts are not exhaustive and that any number of additional mobile device contexts or variations of the identified mobile device contexts may also be defined for the mobile device .

An illustrative communication management environment can include a number of additional components systems and or subsystems for facilitating communications with the mobile devices and or the communication management system . The additional components can include one or more mobile switching centers for establishing communications with the mobile devices via the mobile communication network such as a cellular radio access network a wireless network based on the family of IEEE 802.11 technical standards WiFi a wireless network based on IEEE 802.16 standards WiMax and other wireless networks. The operation of mobile communication networks such as mobile communication network are well known and will not be described in greater detail.

The communication management system is also in communication with an abstraction information processing component . In an illustrative embodiment the abstraction information processing component obtains mobile device user information that will be used to provide abstracted mobile device user information to one or more third party information devices . The mobile device user information can correspond to static user information such as demographic information as well as dynamic information associated with a particular mobile device user context e.g. current location current velocity etc. . The abstraction information processing component can also maintain integrate geographic information associated particular mobile device with known geographic location e.g. shops and restaurants nearby a current user location . Illustratively the third party information devices can correspond to advertisers search engines data processing services that request user information and provide customized content such as advertisements promotions coupons etc. The third party information devices can correspond to computing devices web services etc. that correspond to such entities. Accordingly reference to third party information devices relates to either the computing devices or computing services and or entities associated with the computing devices or computing services depending on the context.

As further illustrated in the mobile switch center includes interfaces for establishing various communications with via the communication network such as the Internet intranets private networks and point to point networks. In one example the mobile switch center can include interfaces for establishing communication channels with various communication devices such as landline telephones via a public switched telephone network PSTN . The mobile switch center can include interfaces for establishing communication channels with various communication network based communication devices such as a VoIP communication device. Still further the mobile switch center can include interfaces for establishing communication channels with a mobile based communication device such as another mobile device. For example the communication devices can correspond to a third party mobile communication that establishes an audio communication channel with a mobile device . Accordingly although communication network is illustrated as a single communication network one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the communication network can be made up of any number of public or private communication networks and or network connections.

The various communication devices can include the hardware and software components that facilitate the various modes of operation and communication such as via wired and wireless communication networks. Additionally the computing devices can include various hardware and software components such as a browser software application that facilitate the generation of the graphical user interfaces for provisioning and managing mobile device profiles as will be described below.

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the components and configurations provided in are illustrative in nature. Accordingly additional or alternative components and or configurations especially regarding the additional components systems and subsystems for facilitating communications may be utilized.

With reference now to illustrative components of the abstraction information processing component will be described. Although the operation of the various functions associated with the abstraction information processing component will be described with regard to below subcomponents one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the subcomponents are illustrative in nature. Accordingly an abstraction information processing component may include additional components or alternative components to facilitate one or more functions. Additionally although the various subcomponents are illustrated as integrated into an abstraction information processing component one or more of the components may be implemented in a distributed manner over a communication network and or be implemented as a network service e.g. a Web service.

As illustrated in the abstraction information processing component includes a communication management system interface component for establishing communications with a mobile device via the communication management system . In an illustrative embodiment the communication management system interface component corresponds to a component for facilitating the bi lateral transfer of data such as mobile device context information context assessment algorithms etc. between the mobile device and the abstraction information processing component . The communication management system interface component can include software and hardware components necessary to establish one or more communication channels corresponding to various communication protocols such as Bluetooth the family of IEEE 802.11 technical standards WiFi the IEEE 802.16 standards WiMax short message service SMS voice over IP VoIP as well as various generation cellular air interface protocols including but not limited to air interface protocols based on CDMA TDMA GSM WCDMA CDMA2000 TD SCDMA WTDMA LTE OFDMA and similar technologies .

The abstraction information processing component can also include a data processing component for obtaining and processing search queries from third party information devices . The data processing component can execute various processes or algorithms for processing specific mobile device context information and generated a set of abstracted information response to the third party information devices . Additionally the data processing component can also manage mobile device user information associated with the mobile devices and location information maintained in either the user information data store and or the location information data store . The location information in the location information data store may be GIS map information and can identify relevant structures in a given region e.g. coffee shop locations road and highway speed limits public transport stations etc. according to traditional map information such contours and grid references. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the user information data store and the location information data store may correspond to one or more database files etc. Additionally the user information data store and or the location information data store may be maintained locally to the abstraction information processing component or distributed via the communication network .

With continued reference to the abstraction information processing component can include a third party interface component for communicating with various third party information devices . As previously discussed the third party information devices transmit search queries to the abstraction information processing component via the third party interface component . Abstracted search results generated by the data processing component can returned to the third party information devices via the third party interface component . Additional interactions such as the exchange between the third party information devices and the abstraction information processing component can be facilitated by the third party interface component .

With reference now to the interaction between various components of the communication management environment of will be illustrated. For purposes of the example however the illustration has been simplified such that many of the systems subsystems and components utilized to facilitate communications are not shown. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that such components or subcomponents can be utilized and that additional interactions would accordingly occur without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

With reference now to one embodiment related to the processing of a request from a third party communication device to establish a communication channel such as an audio call will be described. For purposes of the illustrative example a particular mobile computing device has registered with a communication management service that provides the communication management system . Additionally a user of the mobile device has provisioned a mobile device profile that identifies the availability of the mobile device as a function of mobile device contexts and third party identification information. Alternatively some portion the mobile device profile may be pre provisioned for the user and or automatically set by an administrator such as a service provider.

As illustrated in during the operation of the mobile device or during an initialization of the mobile device the mobile device obtains a set of inputs corresponding to the mobile device environment. The set of inputs are processed by the mobile device to generate mobile device context information. The mobile device then transmits the mobile device context information to the communication management system as appropriate. Specifically to reduce power consumption and or bandwidth consumption the mobile device may limit the transmission of mobile device context information for the initialization of a mobile device context a detection of a change in mobile device context and or for the re establishment of a mobile device context.

Upon receipt of the context information the communication management system obtains a corresponding or applicable mobile device profiles from a profile data store . The communication management system may utilize one or more mobile device profiles to determine mobile device availability from the context information. Alternatively a single mobile device profile may define availability for multiple mobile device contexts. The communication management system then determines the availability of the mobile device to establish a communication channel either receipt of a request or the initiation of a request based on the processing.

Thereafter in the illustrative example of a communication device such as a third party communication device initiates a request to establish a communication channel with the mobile device . The request is received by the mobile switching center and is held pending an approval or rejection by the communication management system . The applicable mobile switching center then transmits the request to the communication management system to request a determination whether the requested communication channel should be established. The request can include additional information utilized by the communication management system to select an appropriate profile including caller identification information and the like.

With reference now to upon receipt of the request or notification from the mobile switching center the communication management system utilizes the predetermined availability of the mobile device to authorize or reject the establishment of the requested communication channel. If the request to initiate the communication channel is authorized the authorization is transmitted to the mobile switching center which processes the request for initiation of the communication channel in an appropriate manner. Accordingly the requested communication channel is completed. The communication management system may continue to monitor the established communication channel for a change in mobile device context and will manage the communication channel as defined in the applicable mobile device profile.

With reference now to alternatively if the request for initiation of the communication channel is rejected based on a predetermined unavailability of the mobile device the communication management system transmits a rejection authorization communication to the mobile switching center to prevent the initiation of the communication channel. Additionally the communication mitigation component can provide appropriate communication mitigation such as notifications to the users of the mobile device and the communication device . Additionally the communication management system can obtain a selection of a communication channel alternative defined in the mobile device profile such as voicemail systems or interactive voice response systems as will be described in greater detail below.

With reference now to one embodiment processing of a request from a user at a mobile device to establish a communication channel such as an audio call with a third party communication device will be described. As described above with regard to for the illustrative example it is assumed that a particular mobile device has registered with a communication management service that provides the communication management system and provisioned a mobile device profile that identifies the availability of the mobile device for particular mobile device contexts.

As illustrated in during the operation of the mobile device or during an initialization of the mobile device the mobile device obtains a set of inputs corresponding to the mobile device environment. The set of inputs are processed by the mobile device to generate mobile device context information. The mobile device then transmits the mobile device context information to the communication management system as appropriate. Specifically to reduce power consumption and or bandwidth consumption the mobile device may limit the transmission of mobile device context information for the initialization of a mobile device context a detection of a change in mobile device context and or for the re establishment of a mobile device context.

Upon receipt of the context information the communication management system obtains one or more corresponding or applicable mobile device profiles from a mobile device profile data store. The communication management system then determines the availability of the mobile device to establish a communication channel either receipt of a request or the initiation of a request based on the processing.

Thereafter in the illustrative example of the mobile device initiates a request to establish a communication channel with a communication device such as a third party communication device. The request is received by the mobile switching center and is held pending an approval or rejection by the communication management system . The applicable mobile switching center then transmits the request to the communication management system along with additional information such as the identification information e.g. telephone number of the third party communication device .

With reference now to upon receipt of the request or notification from the mobile switching center the communication management system obtains applicable communication profiles using the identification information or other information and utilizes the predetermined availability of the mobile device to authorize or reject the establishment of the communication channel. If the request to initiate the communication channel is authorized the authorization is transmitted to the mobile switching center which processes the request for initiation of the communication channel in a typical manner. Accordingly the requested communication channel is completed. The communication management system may continue to monitor the established communication channel for a change in mobile device context.

With reference now to alternatively if the request for initiation of the communication channel is rejected based on a determined unavailability of the mobile device the communication management system transmits a rejection authorization communication to the mobile switching center to prevent the initiation of the communication channel. Additionally the communication management system can provide appropriate notifications to the users of the mobile device and the communication device . Additionally the communication management system can obtain a selection of a communication channel alternative via the communication mitigation component .

With reference now to one embodiment related to the processing of a request from a third party information device to facilitate the generation of targeted de demographic communications to mobile devices will be described. For purposes of the illustrative example a set of mobile devices have registered with a communication management service that provides the communication management system . Additionally each user associated with the mobile device has provisioned a mobile device profile that identifies the availability of the mobile device as a function of mobile device contexts and third party identification information. Additionally the user may have provided additional profile information such as demographic information and profile information. Alternatively some portion the mobile device profile may be pre provisioned for the user and or automatically set by an administrator such as a service provider.

With reference to assuming that the abstraction information processing component has previously compiled or been provided access to relevant information in the user information data store and or location information data store the abstraction information processing component obtains a query from one or more third party information devices . Illustratively the queries from the third party information devices can correspond to information to define a subset of mobile device that can be targeted for subsequent targeted demographic communications. The data processing component in turn queries the user information data store and computes a response that mitigates the user specific personal information via abstracted query results. The abstracted query results are provided to the third party information devices in a manner that will facilitate submission of targeted demographic communications to mobile devices . The abstracted responses may also be associated with time expiration data such as a time stamp and an expected expiration time. Illustratively the expiration can be sent in the form of a notification to the third party information device when 10 and 25 of the original remote user s context has changed. This indicates to the third party information device the rate at which the original enquiries value is diminishing and permits the judgment by when supplementary or additional enquiries can be made

Turning to based on the abstracted query results the third party information devices submit to the abstraction information processing component targeted demographic actions requests that will be directed to specific mobile devices by the abstraction information processing component via the communication management system . The third party information device requests will typically not be directed to identifiable mobile devices since such identification information was not previously provided by the abstraction information processing component . The targeted demographic actions requests can correspond to advertisements coupons discount offers information requests surveys and the like. The targeted demographic actions requests may be in the form of notifications to receive communications or broadcast of the actual electronic communications e.g. electronic mail messages short message service SMS messages instant message messages micro Web logs and other types of communications. Additionally the targeted demographic actions requests may also be in the form of Web pages or other forms of customized content accessible by the mobile devices directly via the mobile device or via another computing device .

Upon receipt of the targeted demographic actions requests the mobile devices can examine the targeted actions request such as by accessing a customized Web page. The mobile device can provide individual responses to the abstraction information processing component corresponding to confirmation that the targeted demographic action request has been accessed and or any additional instructions requests. By way of an example the mobile device may receive an actionable SMS and text message that encodes all the human response requirements into a single actionable task upon the mobile device. This then launches a web browser that links directly to a hosted Web page provided by the abstraction information processing component . This event can be logged and offered as a value added feedback to the third party information devices . As described previously all user specific information can be stripped from the interaction information such that only summaries of information transactions are issued.

With reference now to the abstraction information processing component again processes the information as described above and provides abstracted responses to the abstracted demographic responses to the third party information devices . Thereafter the abstraction information processing component mobile devices and or third party information devices can interact further. For example if a mobile device wishes to act further upon the availability of an offer additional user interaction permits the delivery of an SMS or text email to occur in which the redemption coupon is then delivered to the handset. The delivered e vouchers e coupons or e offer validation codes are unique and may consist of single use multi use time limited minutes to years or shareable in which other individuals may be invited to utilize the same product code. Indeed users who share or evangelize a particular product will be eligible for additional rewards as a function of their sharing activity. The vouchers may consist of a simple alpha numeric sequence or a visual display in which a standard one or two dimensional barcode is utilized. Additionally the time frame between the creation of the offer and the response behaviors can be accurately measured and reported. Thus an exemplary transaction sequence may be reported to the third party as described below 

In an illustrative embodiment the communication sequence between the abstraction information processing component and the third party information devices may be completely automated such that no human intervention is required. For example a third party information device may be programmed to automatically send enquiries or queries and to determine based on the abstracted response whether to proceed with the broadcast of an offer to the target group. The third party information device may also be programmed to select an appropriate offer based on the abstracted response.

With reference now to an illustrative data table maintained by the abstraction information processing component in the user information data store for processing third party information device search queries will be described. The data table includes a number of columns and for maintaining attributes about specific mobile devices . Specifically column defines whether the information corresponds to static information about a mobile device user that does not change frequently dynamic information that will likely frequently change and can become stale or third party information associated with the user such as map information . Column defines specific types of the above identified classification information while column defines subtypes for each of the defined types. Column defines attributes of the specific instance of the type subtype and can also be used for tracking mobile device interaction information e.g. when did the mobile device access the information . Finally column defines rank information that can be used to prioritize information within each classification or within the entire table . The type of information maintained in each of the columns may be predefined by the abstraction information processing component . Alternatively the information may not be limited and may correspond to any information provided by the mobile device or otherwise obtained by the abstraction information processing component .

With reference to an illustrative example within rows correspond to static information associated with a particular user namely NAME ADDRESS GENDER and INTERESTS. Rows and further define two subtypes of INTERESTS namely PHOTOGRAPHY and FASHION. Rows correspond to dynamic information which is typically determined by the mobile device and communicated to the communication management system . The dynamic information illustrated in includes CURRENT LOCATION CURRENT VELOCITY and MEETING STATUS. Finally rows correspond to map information obtained by the abstraction information processing component and associated with the particular mobile device. The map information corresponds to LOCATION information including a LAT and LONG subtype. The map information also corresponds to geographic information associated with the location information such as the identification of recognizable landmarks areas of interests based on the known location e.g. SHOP 1 and SHOP 2 . In this example row has a higher priority ranking than row likely due to the closer proximity to the mobile device as captured in the ATTRIBUTE column .

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that table may include a number of additional columns and or rows for capturing mobile device data used to process queries from third party information devices . Moreover the abstraction information processing component may maintain multiple tables for different third party information devices or for different purposes e.g. advertisements vs. coupons . Further the information provided in table is illustrative and is not limiting as to the type of information that can be stored in table . Finally one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that any number of data structures methodologies may be used to track mobile device information.

With reference now to a routine implemented by the abstraction information processing component to process search queries and generate abstracted information request will be described. At block the abstraction information processing component obtains third party information source queries from third party information devices . The queries may be in the form specified by the abstraction information processing component such as via an application programming interface API or via a Web page form accessed via computing device and communication network. At block the abstraction information processing component processes the queries according to the information in the user information data store . In an illustrative embodiment the abstraction information processing component may process the queries such as by parsing the query and or translating information to identify the relevant fields that will be queried.

At block the abstraction information processing component obtains the query results and abstracts the query results. Illustratively the abstraction information processing component can maintain templates of abstracted information and or conduct keyword searching to remove any client specific information. At block the abstracted query results are transmitted to the requested third party information device .

At block the abstraction information processing component can obtain targeted demographic communications from one or more third party information devices . As previously described the targeted demographic communications can correspond to actions or requests that are targeted to specific mobile devices or classes of mobile devices based on the previously received abstracted search results. For example an advertisement may be targeted to specific static parameters e.g. age as well as dynamic parameters e.g. downtown near a coffee shop . The targeted communications can corresponds to content for inclusion in electronic messages or via customized Web pages including but not limited to advertisements coupons discounts identification information e.g. phone numbers or URLs . The targeted communications may be specified for inclusion in a specific targeted communication to the mobile device or as part of a collection compilation transmitted to the mobile device .

At block the targeted communications are transmitted by the abstraction information processing component to one or more mobile devices . As previously described the transmission can correspond to notifications of pending messages communication of electronic messages and or communication of customized content. The communications can include content that can be accessed immediately by the mobile device either directly via the communication network or the communication management system e.g. a URL . The communication can also include content that can be utilized by the mobile device user at a later point such as a printable bar code or coupon. At block the abstraction information processing component processes any additional communications between the mobile devices and the third party information devices . A sub routine for processing the additional communications will be described with regard to . At block the routine terminates.

Turning now to a sub routine implemented by the abstraction information processing component for processing additional communications between the mobile devices and the third party information devices will be described. At block the abstraction information processing component obtains mobile device interaction response information. As previously described the abstraction information processing component may generate customized Web pages in which access and activity within the Web pages can be logged. Additionally the abstraction information processing component may obtain communications from the mobile device in response to accessing the content. For example the mobile device may issue a confirmation message to ensure that the user is accorded credit.

At block the abstraction information processing component abstracts the user responses interactions and transmits the responses to the corresponding third party information devices . As previously described the user responses interactions may be associated with timing information to facilitate knowledge of the receipt of the targeted information and the relative effectiveness of the communication e.g. how long did it take for mobile devices to access the advertisement .

At decision block the abstraction information processing component determines whether additional communication interaction is required or available. If so the sub routine returns to block to obtain and process the additional interaction. In an illustrative embodiment success iterations of sub routine may yield additional benefit such as points credits or access to new content . Accordingly a mobile device may elect to provide additional information and or spend additional time accessing targeted communications in exchange for additional value. Once no additional interaction is available or desired the sub routine returns at block .

In one embodiment the abstraction information processing component may also provide additional services for reconciling credits charges based on mobile device interaction with the targeted communications. For example the abstraction information processing component may keep track of all coupons accessed and redeemed such that an appropriate third party information device may be charged for the value provided to the user. In another example the abstraction information processing component may interact with a credit service such as a frequent customer service or points based service that can reconcile mobile device activity and offers provided by the third party information devices .

While illustrative embodiments have been disclosed and discussed one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that additional or alternative embodiments may be implemented within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Additionally although many embodiments have been indicated as illustrative one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the illustrative embodiments do not need to be combined or implemented together. As such some illustrative embodiments do not need to be utilized or implemented in accordance with scope of variations to the present disclosure.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art. It will further be appreciated that the data and or components described above may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into memory of the computing device using a drive mechanism associated with a computer readable storing the computer executable components such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or network interface further the component and or data can be included in a single device or distributed in any manner. Accordingly general purpose computing devices may be configured to implement the processes algorithms and methodology of the present disclosure with the processing and or execution of the various data and or components described above.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

