---

title: Micro atomizer
abstract: A micro atomizer to produce stable aerosol concentrations having an aerosol mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of less than 10 microns with liquid flow rates in the microliter per minute range is provided. The micro atomizer includes a liquid channel in the shape of a thick-wall tube and a cap having an aerosol outlet orifice whereby a liquid-gas contact space is formed by the internal surface of the cap and the substantially flat end of the liquid channel. Pressurized carrier gas and the liquid to be aerosolized are allowed to come into contact within a precisely formed liquid-gas contact space. The desired aerosol characteristics are accurately established, stable, and reproducible. In an exemplary embodiment, the micro atomizer is used with a syringe and syringe drive to provide a continuous liquid source for aerosol generation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08882085&OS=08882085&RS=08882085
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08882085
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention generally relates to the technical field of gas and liquid contact devices and methods to produce an aerosol and more particularly to an atomizer for use in aerosol generation at continuous but ultra low liquid flow rates such as 50 microliters per hour. Accordingly the device of the present invention is referred to herein as a micro atomizer.

Research in inhalation toxicology requires the ability to generate stable aerosol concentrations of a respirable particle size in a consistent manner from day to day and experiment to experiment. Respirable as used herein refers to airborne particles capable of entering and depositing in the upper airways and the lower airways of the lungs. The upper airways include the trachea and the primary secondary and tertiary bronchus. The lower airways include the bronchioles terminal bronchioles and alveoli. Aerosol deposition in the upper airways of the human is generally achieved by a particle size between about 2.5 and 10 microns m aerosol mass median aerodynamic diameter MMAD with the larger particles depositing in the larger airways. Aerosol deposition in the lower airways of the human is generally achieved between 0.5 and 2.5 m MMAD with maximal alveolar deposition occurring with particles of about 1.2 m MMAD or smaller. For inhalation studies using small research animals the range for the upper airways is approximately 2.0 to 6.0 m MMAD and for the lower airways 0.5 to 2.0 m MMAD.

In addition to inhalation toxicology other research areas in the life and physical sciences various manufacturing processes and certain systems or products have a need for precise and accurate atomization to produce aerosols having small particle size at low to ultra low yet stable concentrations. Various methods of generating such aerosols are in use but suffer from a number of limitations some of which are described below. These methods depend on parameters such as the physical state of the material to be aerosolized vapor pressure of the material to be aerosolized and physical parameters of the desired aerosol exposure to be achieved.

While several commercially available products exist for liquid aerosol generation for the inhalation toxicology research that motivated the present invention none were found that would function properly and consistently at the required ultra low liquid flow rates ranging from microliters per minute to microliters per hour. Additionally the materials used in the studies for which the micro atomizer herein was invented require that the atomizer be constructed of materials resistant to organic solvents and caustic solutions. These features also would be desirable or required for most of the other applications mentioned above.

By way of example one prior art device and method to generate aerosol at the desired liquid flow rates utilizes a modified commercially available spray atomizer nozzle Spraying Systems Co. pneumatic atomizer model 1 4 JSS . This atomizer nozzle was modified to improve its performance for the inhalation toxicology studies by changing the delivery means of the liquid to be aerosolized. In particular the reservoir injection means was replaced with a syringe and a syringe drive to more precisely control liquid flow at low flow rates. In addition the liquid stream was kept separate from the atomizing air stream until reaching the tip of the nozzle. These modifications allow for greater control over the flow of liquid in comparison to the unmodified commercially available pneumatic atomizer. Through use of this modified device both aerosol particle size and aerosol concentration can be adjusted by changing either the liquid flow rate through adjustment of the syringe drive or by changing the air flow rate and pressure using a commercially available mass flow controller or pressure regulator.

Despite these benefits the modified commercially available pneumatic atomizer suffers operational limitations as it is a relatively large piece of equipment requiring liquid flow rates in the milliliter per minute hour range as well as an air flow rate on the order of 20 liters per minute. These parameters make this generation method appropriate when relatively large volumes of liquid are available and acceptable high aerosol concentrations are desired and the application involves in a relatively large aerosol chamber. The chambers used in the inhalation toxicology studies that motivated this invention however are small in comparison and cannot operate with a generation system that outputs more than 5 liters per minute of air.

A second prior art device used to generate aerosol at the desired liquid flow rates involves the use of what may be referred to as a double needle atomizer. This device involves the use of two small pieces of stainless steel tubing or two appropriately sized needles such that the smaller of the two needles fits within the larger with enough room or clearance that air can flow through the larger needle. These needles are connected to a manifold that allows air to enter the larger needle and liquid to enter the smaller needle. The smaller needle carrying the liquid to be aerosolized is connected to a syringe which in turn is connected to a syringe drive. The tip of the smaller needle carrying the liquid is set to extend approximately 0.5 mm past the tip of the larger needle carrying pressurized air. When an air flow through the larger needle is of appropriate pressure and flow rate the liquid exiting the smaller needle is aerosolized. By way of example the smaller needle in this prior art device is typically a 32 gauge blunt ended needle and the larger needle is a 21 gauge blunt ended needle.

Limitations of this second prior art device involve its inconsistency and unreliability in generating the same aerosol characteristics from day to day. While the double needle design is capable of working in the desired microliter per minute to microliter per hour range and generates low concentrations in small aerosol chambers its design has inherent flaws that cause it to perform in an inconsistent manner. In particular the liquid gas contact space is variable in day to day operations. This can occur for example due to small changes in the location and orientation of the inner needle relative to the outer needle. Such changes in the shape of the liquid gas contact space result in undesirable changes in aerosol characteristics.

Another prior art method involves the adaption of commercially available ink jet cartridges. While ink jet cartridges can be utilized to produce aerosols the amount of liquid needed exceeds the desired flow rates for the applications described above.

Accordingly there remains a need for a micro atomizer capable of generating aerosols at liquid flow rates in the microliter per minute range or lower in a reproducible and consistent manner. Such a device can be used for the inhalation toxicology studies that motivated this invention as well as other applications in the life and physical sciences manufacturing and systems or products that require or could benefit from a micro atomizer as described herein.

In view of the foregoing an exemplary embodiment of a micro atomizer to produce stable aerosol concentrations having MMAD values of less than 10 m with liquid flow rates in the microliter per minute range is provided. The micro atomizer includes a liquid channel in the shape of a thick wall tube and a cap having an aerosol outlet orifice whereby a liquid gas contact space is formed by the internal surface of the cap and the substantially flat end of the liquid channel. Pressurized carrier gas and the liquid to be aerosolized are allowed to come into contact within a precisely formed liquid gas contact space. The desired aerosol characteristics are accurately established stable and reproducible. In an exemplary embodiment the micro atomizer is used with a syringe and syringe drive to provide a continuous liquid source for aerosol generation.

These and other aspects of the embodiment herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating an exemplary embodiment and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiment herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to a non limiting embodiment that is illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiment herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiment herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the present invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention.

Turning to a first perspective view is provided to illustrate the outlet side of a micro atomizer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Micro atomizer includes body having orifice for connection to a source of pressurized air or an alternative carrier gas. Body also includes orifices for receiving fittings and . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated body was made from a stainless steel block with dimensions of approximately 1.5 0.5 0.5 inches. The details of body are illustrated and described below in reference to the cross sectional views.

Returning to fitting is used with fitting to fasten cap to the assembly of micro atomizer . As described below in reference to the cross sectional views fitting includes orifices for carrier gas flow and for housing a liquid feed channel. Fitting is in the exemplary embodiment illustrated attached to body on the opposite side as fittings and with all three fittings and cap arranged along a common centerline which passes through body .

In the exemplary embodiment illustrated cap and fittings and are commercially available stainless steel fittings having threaded connectors. Such fittings are well known in the art of mechanical engineering and are available in a wide range of features and options. For example such fittings are readily available in other metals and rigid plastics and in different shapes and sizes. Body cap and fittings may be made of an alternative material such as a ceramic or composite. In addition two or more of these components can be combined in an alternative embodiment. For example block and fitting may be machined cast or formed by various manufacturing means as a single part which performs the same or equivalent function as taught herein.

The materials selected to comprise micro atomizer should be substantially impermeable and nonreactive to the liquids and air or other carrier gas to be used with the device substantially rigid to maintain structural integrity and dimensional tolerances and will resist cracking corrosion and other possible failure modes. Stainless steel component parts have been used for the exemplary embodiment described herein and provide these desired attributes.

Turning to a second perspective view is provided to illustrate the syringe side of a micro atomizer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. As previously shown micro atomizer includes body having orifice for connection to a source of pressurized air or an alternative carrier gas. Body also includes orifices for receiving fittings and . In this particular view orifice which is formed by fitting is visible. Orifice provides a means to attach a syringe not shown containing the fluid to be atomized. The attachment means between orifice and the syringe should prevent leakage of fluid from the syringe. This may be accomplished using a threaded fitting compression fitting o ring or other means that are well known in the art. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated this is accomplished with threaded fittings which mate to threads on a commercially available syringe.

Turning to a cross sectional view is provided illustrating internal parts and features of micro atomizer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The entire length of orifice of body is illustrated in this view along with the other two orifices of body for receiving fittings and . In addition liquid channel is visible in this view as is carrier gas channel . Liquid channel is substantially a thick wall tube with a small inner diameter of the channel in which the liquid flows and a relative stiffness to maintain its linear shape and position relative to cap . In the exemplary embodiment commercially available stainless steel tubing of 0.062 inches outer diameter and 0.007 inches inner diameter was used for liquid channel McMaster Carr stainless steel tubing . As illustrated in liquid channel substantially contained within fittings and and extends to the outlet area of cap . In the exemplary embodiment liquid channel is inserted into fitting and soldered to fitting to secure its position and orientation as well as to create a leak tight seal. When fitting is threaded into body liquid channel is thereby positioned precisely and accurately within the assembly of micro atomizer . By way of example in the exemplary embodiment illustrated herein the clearance dimension between the liquid channel and cap is approximately 0.001 inches radially. The precise reproducible and accurate control of the liquid gas contact space results in a corresponding precise and accurate control of atomization performance.

Returning to fitting includes one or more carrier gas channels for allowing carrier gas from a pressurized gas source not shown attached to orifice to flow through fitting and into the space formed by cap and fitting . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated three carrier gas channels are provided which are symmetrically arranged relative to and parallel with the centerline of fitting . The same or similar function however could be accomplished with a single carrier gas channel or some number other than three as described herein.

Turning to an enlarged detail of the cross sectional view is provided to further illustrate internal parts and features of the outlet components of a micro atomizer according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In this view the space formed by cap and fitting is clearly visible. As illustrated in this particular embodiment cap is secured to fitting by fitting . A gasket is used in this exemplary embodiment for a leak tight seal of cap throughout its contact area with fitting . Accordingly the pressurized carrier gas within space flowing from carrier gas orifices can only escape through the orifice of cap where it comes in contact with fluid from liquid channel to produce atomized liquid particles. Also shown in this view is gasket which is used for a leak tight seal of fitting into the body of the micro atomizer.

Turning to a further enlarged detail of the cross sectional view of is provided to further illustrate internal parts and features of the outlet components of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In this view the shape of the thick wall tube of liquid channel is clearly illustrated including its substantially flat end which fits within the orifice formed by cap . Liquid channel in this exemplary embodiment has an inner diameter of approximately 0.007 inches which defines orifice through which the liquid to be aerosolized flows. Clearance between cap and liquid channel in this exemplary embodiment is approximately 0.001 inches measured radially. That is the gap between liquid channel and cap on each side as illustrated in this cross sectional view is approximately 0.001 inches. The distance that cap extends past the end of liquid channel when fitting is threaded completely into fitting is approximately 0.005 inches in this exemplary embodiment. Those with Ordinary skill in the art will understand how these dimensions are readily adjustable to provide alternative spacing should it be desired. This can be accomplished as a one time design change or as a user adjustable feature.

The dimensions as described above allow pressurized carrier gas to flow through clearance between liquid channel and cap with appropriate volume and pressure to interact with liquid flowing out of orifice . The dimensions and orientation of parts as taught herein with reference to this exemplary embodiment are readily achieved with tight dimensions and tolerances which are reproducible over the entire service life of the micro atomizer which may be years. Liquid gas contact or interaction thus occurs in the cylindrical space formed by the orifice of cap and the end of liquid channel and projecting outward or down in the orientation illustrated in from the end of liquid channel . This small and controlled liquid gas contact interaction space produces the desired atomization results.

Neither the carrier gas source nor the liquid source are illustrated in the foregoing drawings as both are readily accomplished using commercially available products. Carrier gas which can be air or another gas such as nitrogen can be supplied from a standard laboratory pressurized air system a pressure vessel or tank with regulator and hose or tubing or other means such as a small pump. The present invention as taught in the embodiment illustrated is compatible with various liquid sources such as commercially available syringes and syringe drives. Syringe drives that can be used with the present invention include but are not limited to the Harvard Syringe Drive Model Number 55 2222 or equivalent. Syringes that may be used with the present invention include but are not limited to the Hamilton Microliter Series Gastight Syringe the Harvard Stainless Steel Syringe Beckton Dickinson Plastic Syringe the Poper Son Glass Syringe or equivalent. In addition other means to provide liquid to the micro atomizer are well known in the art or can be engineered using ordinary skill. An example of such an alternative fluid source is a fluid vessel with a pressurized head or pump such that liquid flows to a regulator which then feeds into the micro atomizer through a hose or tubing.

Having described the structural components and features of a micro atomizer with reference to an exemplary embodiment along with some alternative embodiments attention is now turned to a series of demonstration runs of the micro atomizer and the corresponding aerosol generation data thus produced. In this demonstration of performance characteristics nine different combinations of carrier gas flow rate and feed rate were established. With the exception of run 1 which occurred at a pressurized gas source of 60 pounds per square inch psi runs 2 9 where at a pressurized gas source of 100 psi. For each combination the resulting MMAD values and particle counts were measured. MMAD is commonly defined and used consistently herein as the diameter at which 50 of the particles by mass are larger and 50 are smaller. For each demonstration run the MMAD and particle count were measured in real time using an Aerosol Particle Sizer APS Model 3321 from TSI incorporated of Shoreview Minn. Data representing one minute averages were collected once per second using the APS. These data were exported to Microsoft Excel software for analysis and are presented in Table 1 below. Of note are the desirable ultra low liquid feed rates of 10 to 1000 microliters per hour l hr and the desirable MMAD values of approximately 1 to 6 m. It should also be noted that numerous combinations of carrier gas flow rate liquid feed and carrier gas pressure can be used to provide a variability or adjustability of MMAD and particle count. Particle count values are discussed below in reference to .

Turning to a graph of MMAD particle size as measured in a representative 45 minute demonstration run of the micro atomizer embodiment described herein is provided. In particular these data are representative of micro atomizer performance under the conditions specified in Table 1 above for run number 8. Data representative of the other runs were graph similarly but around a vertical axis value corresponding to the mean MMAD value in Table 1. As illustrated in the plot of the particle sizes produced by the exemplary micro atomizer taught herein and under the conditions listed for run number 8 in Table 1 are tightly controlled within 0.9 and 1.1 m with a mean M MAD of 1.01 m. That is a noteworthy performance outcome which is desirable for certain applications as described herein. In addition the liquid feed rate was a mere 50 l hr which again is desirable for certain applications as described herein.

Turning to is graph of particle count of the aerosol produced in a representative 45 minute test or demonstration run of the micro atomizer embodiment described herein is provided. As illustrated this particle count corresponds to a MMAD of 1.037 m and with only one outlying data point stays within 1500 to 2500 counts per second. The APS identified above was used to measure the number of particles of a given size range per second of real time monitoring. Corn oil was used as the material for this demonstration run.

If desired real time monitoring of particle count using the APS instrument or equivalent can be correlated with a concentration expressed in units such as milligrams per cubic meter mg m3 . This can be accomplished using a standard gas chromatography mass spectrometer GC MS to perform analyses of aerosol samples collected on a filter pad. Such methods and instrumentation are well known in the art. The correlation between APS real time particle count data and concentration data as measured with a GC MS and filter pad collection method may differ for different liquids aerosolized because the counting process is based on laser diffraction or reflectivity and liquids of different material or composition will have different laser diffraction and reflectivity characteristics. The particle counts achieved in the demonstration run illustrated here would likely result in aerosol concentration data as measured with a GC MS and filter pad collection method within the range of 1 to 10 mg m3. Such a range is well suited for inhalation toxicology studies as well as other purposes.

The various performance characteristics described above are particularly useful in the inhalation toxicology studies which motivated the invention. In addition to inhalation toxicology the micro atomizer could be used in other applications where there is a need for atomization at stable aerosol concentrations of small particle size at low to ultra low concentrations. This could include other research or experimental applications in the life and physical sciences various manufacturing processes and certain systems or products that require atomization.

While a specific exemplary embodiment of the invention has been described it will be understood that additional embodiments and various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the dimensions of the present invention and its component specifications can be adjusted and optimized for various applications. The size shape and type of fittings for example may vary for alternative embodiments. The size and shape of the body may vary for alternative embodiments while accomplishing the same function. The body and one or more fittings can be combined into a single part. The shape and path of the carrier gas and fluid channels can vary as well. More than one fluid channel can be used. Rather than multiple air channels as taught in the exemplary embodiment herein a single air channel two channels or a plurality of channels can be used to deliver pressurized carrier gas to the fluid gas contact space. Components of the present invention can be selected from commercially available products having a wide range of performance specifications or such components can be custom manufactured for assembly into a micro atomizer according to the present invention. The orientation of components can be adjusted as well. Accordingly these and other embodiments of the invention fall within the scope of the claims below.

