---

title: Systems and methods for displaying runway information
abstract: A display system and method for an aircraft are provided. The display device includes a processing unit configured to receive arrestor bed information associated with a runway and to generate display commands based on the arrestor bed information; and a display device coupled the processing unit and configured to receive the display commands and to display symbology representing the arrestor bed information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08797191&OS=08797191&RS=08797191
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08797191
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120713
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for displaying aircraft runway information.

Takeoff and landing are the most demanding tasks in flying. For example during the landing approach the pilot must evaluate if the aircraft may safely land or if the landing attempt should be aborted. The time allocated to this task is very limited given the airspeed of the aircraft and the typical or nominal reaction time of the pilot. Issues that may complicate landing situations include unfamiliarity with the airport or runway low visibility angle of approach and turbulent or crosswind situations. As such during aircraft operation it is important to provide the pilot with accurate and timely information that facilitates effective flight management.

Computer generated aircraft displays have become highly sophisticated and capable of displaying a substantial amount of flight management navigation and control information that gives flight crews more effective control of the aircraft and a reduction in workload during a normal flight situation and or a low visibility instrument situation. In this regard electronic displays such as head up displays HUDs and head down displays HDDs are used in aircraft as primary flight displays. For example the primary flight display can combine critical flight instrumentation e.g. altitude attitude heading airspeed vertical speed instruments and primary engine instrument indicators into a single readily interpretable display. Although conventional primary flight displays may provide some assistance to the pilot during normal and instrument situations such displays are typically not as helpful during landing situations.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide visual displays that improve situational awareness particularly during landing situations. Furthermore other desirable features and characteristics of the present invention will become apparent from the subsequent detailed description of the invention and the appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and this background of the invention.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment a display system for an aircraft is provided. The display device includes a processing unit configured to receive arrestor bed information associated with a runway and to generate display commands based on the arrestor bed information and a display device coupled the processing unit and configured to receive the display commands and to display symbology representing the arrestor bed information.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment a method is provided for displaying aircraft information during a landing or takeoff operation. The method includes determining a runway associated with the landing or takeoff operation retrieving arrestor bed information for the runway and displaying the arrestor bed information on a visual display.

The following detailed description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. Thus any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. All of the embodiments described herein are exemplary embodiments provided to enable persons skilled in the art to make or use the invention and not to limit the scope of the invention which is defined by the claims. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding technical field background brief summary or the following detailed description.

Broadly exemplary embodiments discussed herein relate to systems and methods for displaying aircraft information to a pilot or user. In some exemplary embodiments the systems and methods include displaying runway information to the pilot particularly information about arrestor beds that may be located at the end of a runway. Accordingly the pilot may have immediate and accurate runway information to avoid undesirable entry into an arrestor bed or to consider using the arrestor bed during an emergency.

The processing unit may be a computer processor associated with a primary flight display or other type of aircraft display. Generally the processing unit receives and or retrieves flight management information e.g. from the flight management system and landing target and or terrain information e.g. from database . The processing unit may function as a graphics display generator to generate display commands based on algorithms or other machine instructions stored in the processing unit or in separate memory components. The display commands may represent navigation and control information such as a zero pitch reference line heading indicators tapes for airspeed and altitude terrain information flight path information required navigation performance RNP information and any other information desired by a flight crew. As discussed in further detail below the processing unit additionally calculates and generates display commands representing runway information. The processing unit then sends the generated display commands to a display device e.g. the display device . More specific functions of the processing unit will be discussed below.

Database is coupled to processing unit and may be a memory device e.g. non volatile memory disk drive tape optical storage device mass storage device etc. that stores digital landing waypoint and target location as either absolute coordinate data or as a function of an aircraft s position. Database may also include for example a terrain database which includes the locations and elevations of natural and manmade terrain. Database may additionally include other types of navigation information such as information relating to the aircraft and airport runways. As used herein the term runway may include any landing or takeoff area including a landing strip taxiway airstrip and surrounding areas and the terms runway data and runway information may include any information associated with a runway particularly as discussed in greater detail below. The runway data may be obtained from airports Runway Awareness and Advisory System RAAS and airport mapping database AMDB . The runway data may include for example the length altitude and gradient of the intended landing runway. The runway data may also include a map of the airport which includes data defining the runways at the airport including the runway identifications runway markings e.g. symbols and stripes painted on the surface of the runway and other references. The runway data may be used to compare aircraft position with various aspects of the runway environment to subsequently generate a synthetic view of the runway environment relative to the aircraft as discussed below. Data in the database may be uploaded prior to flight or received from external sources such as an airport transmitter or onboard sensors.

Database may further include aircraft data obtained from the Federal Aviation Administration FAA and aircraft manufacturers such as from aircraft flight manuals. The aircraft data may also include aircraft characteristics as a function of for example aircraft weight with corrections based on for example wind direction runway slope runway surface condition atmospheric altitude and outside temperature. The aircraft data may also include a list of manufacturer or company regulations defining various aspects of flight particularly landing. As also discussed below the aircraft data may further include information such as nose geometry pilot seated position pilot eye reference point and windshield configuration.

As more specifically discussed below the runway information stored in database may include details related to arrestor beds. One example of an arrestor bed is an Engineering Material Arresting System EMAS . At some airports an arrestor bed may be positioned at the end of a runway in lieu of or in addition to a runway safety area. In general an arrestor bed is a section of material at the end of a runway that functions to stop or slow an aircraft during a runway overrun event. The material of the arrestor bed has different characteristics than that of the runway. For example the arrestor bed may include a bed of material having closely controlled strength and density such as frangible aerated e.g. crushable concrete. When the aircraft rolls onto the arrestor bed the tires of the aircraft sink into the material and the aircraft is decelerated by having to roll through the material without significant damage to the aircraft. Typically arrestor beds operate independently of runway friction conditions airplane braking action and weather conditions. Characteristics of the arrestor bed may be defined by the FAA or similar flight regulations including company state local or foreign regulations . However some airports or runways may not have arrestor beds and for those airports that do each runway may have an arrestor bed with unique characteristics. As such the database stores arrestor bed information for individual runways. As an example the database may include a table with arrestor bed information for various runways or various airports stored according to latitude and longitude which may be accessed by the flight management system and or pilot.

The flight management system is coupled to processing unit and may provide navigation data associated with the aircraft s current position and flight direction e.g. heading course track etc. to the processing unit . The navigation data provided to the processing unit may also include information about the aircraft s airspeed altitude pitch flight path intended destination takeoff and landing information and other important flight information. For example the flight management system may generate a flight plan for the aircraft that includes flight paths between waypoints to a destination which may include an airport runway. In exemplary embodiments the flight management system may include any suitable position and direction determination devices that are capable of providing the processing unit with at least an aircraft s current position the real time direction of the aircraft in its flight path the waypoints along the flight path and other important flight information e.g. elevation pitch airspeed altitude attitude etc. . Information can be provided to the processing unit by for example an Inertial Reference System IRS Air data Heading Reference System AHRS and or a global positioning system GPS .

The system also includes the display device coupled to the processing unit . The display device may include any device or apparatus suitable for displaying flight information or other data associated with operation of the aircraft including various types of computer generated symbols and information representing at least pitch heading flight path airspeed altitude runway information waypoints targets obstacle terrain and RNP data in an integrated multi color or monochrome form. Using data retrieved or received from the flight management system or database the processing unit executes one or more algorithms e.g. implemented in software for determining the position of the various types of desired information on the display device . As noted above the processing unit then generates display commands representing this data and sends display commands to the display device . The display device and or processing unit may include a graphics display generator for generating the appropriate symbology on the screen of the display device as discussed in greater detail below.

In this embodiment the display device is an aircraft primary flight display located within a cockpit of the aircraft. It should be appreciated that in practice the display device may be located outside the aircraft e.g. on the ground as part of an air traffic control center or another command center and communicatively coupled to the flight management system . Any suitable type of display medium capable of visually presenting multi colored or monochrome flight information for a pilot or other flight crew member may be provided such as for example various CRT and flat panel display systems e.g. CRT displays LCDs OLED displays plasma displays projection displays HDDs HUDs etc. . Although not shown a user interface may also be located within the cockpit of the aircraft and adapted to allow a user e.g. pilot co pilot or crew member to interact with the system . Such a user interface may be realized as a keypad touchpad keyboard mouse touchscreen joystick microphone or another suitable device adapted to receive input from a user.

In an exemplary embodiment and discussed in greater detail below the system may operate to provide information to the pilot related to the runway information discussed above particularly arrestor bed information. In particular during a landing situation the flight management system accesses database for information concerning arrestor beds associated with a designated runway of a particular airport. The flight management system provides the arrestor bed information to the processing unit which generates graphical symbology representing the arrestor bed information to the pilot on the display device . As such the pilot is made aware of the presence and location of the arrestor bed in order to prevent undesired entry into the arrestor bed or to enable use of the arrestor bed in an emergency situation. Similarly the arrestor bed information may also be provided to the pilot during a takeoff situation to prevent undesired entry or tail strike into the arrestor bed or to enable use of the arrestor bed in an emergency situation. In some exemplary embodiments the flight management system may consider the kinematic state of the aircraft e.g. the speed altitude direction etc. and or the flight plan or landing procedure of the aircraft and based on this information evaluate the aircraft relative to the arrestor bed. If this information indicates that the aircraft will undesirably enter the arrestor bed the system may provide a warning to the pilot.

The visual display shows among other things computer generated symbols e.g. generated by the guidance system representing a zero pitch reference line an airspeed scale or tape and an altitude scale or tape . Although the visual display is shown as an egocentric first person frame of reference the visual display can be a secondary wingman and or plan or perspective view that enables a viewer to view the aircraft as well as zoom in and out. Although the visual display is generally associated with a primary flight display the display can also be utilized on a multi function display head up display and or a head mounted display.

In this embodiment the visual display further includes terrain e.g. identified generally as element corresponding to or within a given distance of a location of the aircraft. Terrain is rendered as a three dimensional perspective view and can include any representation of the environment surrounding the aircraft including flattened terrain. In one embodiment terrain includes natural and man made obstacles including building and navigational positions such as waypoint symbology not shown . In the landing environment depicted by the visual display includes symbology representing a runway . Other symbology depicted in includes an attitude indicator and a flight path vector . Other types of symbology may be provided.

During flight even in ideal situations it may be difficult to remove attention from cockpit instrumentation or displays look out the window orient a visual point of view relative to the runway and aircraft and estimate the presence and the position of an arrestor bed. Upon visual inspection for a cockpit window the arrestor bed may be similar in color to the runway and difficult to distinguish. This task may be more difficult in low visibility conditions or when the aircraft is crabbing during a crosswind i.e. the longitudinal axis not being aligned with the longitudinal axis of the runway thus resulting in the runway not appearing directly in front of the pilot. Moreover some airports do not have arrestor beds. As described in greater detail below the visual display enables the pilot to more easily identify the arrestor bed associated with a runway.

Accordingly the visual display further includes arrestor bed symbology . In this embodiment the arrestor bed symbology corresponds to the size and shape of the arrestor bed relative to the surrounding terrain e.g. in the same scale including the runway so as not to obscure other information on the visual display in a primary field of view while providing the desired information. As shown the arrestor bed symbology may be different than the symbology representing the runway and other surrounding terrain e.g. such as in a different color or highlighted to draw attention to the arrestor bed. As such the arrestor bed symbology enables the pilot to ascertain the presence location and size of the arrestor bed so as to avoid or use the arrestor bed as desired or necessary. At times a runway will have a runway safety area between the end of the main portion of the runway and the arrestor bed. In such cases runway safety symbology will be displayed between the runway and the arrestor bed symbology .

In addition to the arrestor bed symbology discussed above the visual display may provide additional or alternative symbology or indications about the arrestor beds. As an example the visual display may display a text based message to the pilot such as ARRESTOR BED YES to indicate that the designated runway for landing has an arrestor bed. Other text based messages may include information about the arrestor beds such as dimension or relative location. Further embodiments may include aural warnings that announce the presence and or characteristics of the arrestor beds

As noted above the visual display may provide additional or alternative symbology or indications about the arrestor beds. In one exemplary embodiment the system may consider the location of the arrestor bed relative to the aircraft. In other words the system may consider the kinematic state of the aircraft e.g. the speed altitude direction etc. and or the flight plan or landing procedure of the aircraft and based on this information evaluate the aircraft relative to the arrestor bed. If this evaluation indicates that the aircraft will undesirably enter the arrestor bed the system may provide a warning to the pilot. In the visual display of a warning in the form of a text message ARRESTOR BED WARNING is provided to indicate that the aircraft may enter the arrestor bed. In other embodiments the warning may be audible or in an alternate visual form.

Accordingly during a landing or takeoff operation a pilot may view runway information on the visual display and immediately identify the presence and position of the arrestor beds. Based on this information the pilot knows the position of the arrestor beds on the ground relative to the aircraft and the runway. This enables the pilot to have complete situational awareness of the arrestor beds for an individual runway of a particular airport without visually searching out the window reviewing reference charts and or communicating with air traffic control. As such exemplary embodiments provide improved aircraft displays and display methods in a manner that is more intuitive and more easily grasped by a pilot conveys more clearly a geometric picture related to the actual flight path and navigational limitations and is within the pilot s primary scan area at all times while not interfering with unrelated information. Such symbology facilitates flight crew or operator situational awareness and vehicle control which reduces pilot or operator workload and navigation errors and thus results in increased aircraft and or navigation safety.

For the sake of brevity conventional techniques related to graphics and image processing navigation flight planning aircraft controls and other functional aspects of the systems and the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in an embodiment of the subject matter.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. Some of the embodiments and implementations are described above in terms of functional and or logical block components or modules and various processing steps. However it should be appreciated that such block components or modules may be realized by any number of hardware software and or firmware components configured to perform the specified functions. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention. For example an embodiment of a system or a component may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements digital signal processing elements logic elements look up tables or the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments described herein are merely exemplary implementations.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While at least one exemplary embodiment has been presented in the foregoing detailed description of the invention it should be appreciated that a vast number of variations exist. It should also be appreciated that the exemplary embodiment or exemplary embodiments are only examples and are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. Rather the foregoing detailed description will provide those skilled in the art with a convenient road map for implementing an exemplary embodiment of the invention. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements described in an exemplary embodiment without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

