---

title: Stent for restenosis prevention
abstract: A device for use in reducing or preventing the occurrence of restenosis following procedures such as PTCA, in which a stent is used to hold a bodily lumen open. The device comprises a two layered stent, one lying within the other. Both stent layers have an open weave structure, such that they can expand to the correct dimensions after implantation. The outer stent layer is static and grips the inner wall of the lumen in which it is deployed in the usual manner. The inner layer stent is constructed such that it can be vibrated relative to the outer static stent layer. The inner layer stent may be made of a material which can be vibrated from an external source, such as a ferromagnetic material. This vibration prevents restenosis of the treated lumen. Alternatively, a vibrator, such as a piezoelectric device, can be installed on the inner stent layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510959&OS=09510959&RS=09510959
owner: Technion Research & Development Foundation Ltd.
number: 09510959
owner_city: Haifa
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20120328
---
This is a national phase application of PCT IL2012 000133 entitled STENT FOR RESTENOSIS PREVENTION which was filed on Mar. 28 2012 and claims the priority of and benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 457 439 also entitled STENT FOR RESTENOSIS PREVENTION which was filed on Mar. 28 2011. The contents of said applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of stents for medical applications especially for use in the prevention of restenosis.

Stents are used in medical practice to provide support to various lumens in the human body. One of the most common uses is in conjunction with percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty PTCA which is used to treat stenosis a narrowing of a blood vessel leading to restricted blood flow. In PCTA a balloon inserted into the narrowed section of the artery squashes the cholesterol plaques atherosclerosis against the artery walls thus widening the size of the lumen and increasing blood flow. A stent is often used in conjunction with angioplasty to hold open an artery allowing for unrestricted blood flow or to support a weakness in the artery wall called an aneurysm. The artery can react to the stent perceive it as a foreign body and respond by mounting an immune system response which leads to renewed narrowing near to or inside the stent. Such a reoccurrence of stenosis is known as Restenosis.

Furthermore the action of the angioplasty itself can cause damage to the artery walls and it responds by using physiological mechanisms to repair the damage. Damage to the blood vessel wall by angioplasty triggers physiological response that can be divided into two stages. The first stage which may occur immediately after tissue trauma is thrombosis. A blood clot may form at the site of the damage and further hinder blood flow. This is accompanied by an inflammatory immune response. The second stage may occur 3 6 months after surgery and is the result of proliferation of cells in the intima a smooth muscle wall in the vessel. This is known as Neointimal hyperplasia NIHA and may occur in 20 30 of patients treated with bare metal stents.

Drug eluting stents are stents coated with pharmaceuticals that inhibit tissue growth. By controlled release of the drugs onto the endothelial surface the restenosis process may be controlled or inhibited thus reducing the risk of restenosis from scar tissue and cell proliferation. With such drug eluting stents the restenosis rate may be lowered to 5 10 depending on the size and length of the diseased segments. They therefore reduce the need for a repeated procedure. However compared with bare metal stents there may be an increase in the thrombosis rate.

There therefore exists a need for a device for reducing restenosis following PCTA or any other lumen support procedure using stents and which overcomes at least some of the disadvantages of prior art systems and methods.

The disclosures of each of the publications mentioned in this section and in other sections of the specification are hereby incorporated by reference each in its entirety.

The present disclosure describes new exemplary devices for use in reducing or even preventing the occurrence of restenosis following procedures such as PTCA in which a bodily lumen is held clear by means of a stent. The device provides a mechanical solution to the problem of restenosis and is not dependent on the use of drugs which can have undesired side effects. The device comprises a two layered stent one layer lying within the other and has the advantage that it can be installed by means of the same PTCA procedure as is used for any conventional prior art stent. Both stent layers have an open weave structure such that they can expand to the correct dimensions after implantation. The outer stent layer is static and grips the inner wall of the artery in which it is deployed in the usual manner. The inner layer stent on the other hand is constructed such that it can be vibrated relative to the outer static stent layer. One exemplary way in which this can be achieved is to manufacture the inner layer stent of a material which after installation of the double layered stent can be vibrated from an external source relative to the static outer layer. Periodic vibration of this inner stent layer will dislodge any tissue growth formed within the double layered stent thereby preventing its growth and restenosis of the treated artery. Since the stent does not have to be drug eluting in order to perform its function the potential problems of such drug eluting stents namely increased danger of thrombosis is absent.

Vibration of the inner layer of the stent can be performed by any long range field interaction with an external driver. One method is to construct the inner stent layer of a ferromagnetic material and to apply an alternating magnetic field from outside of the subject s body. The outer stent layer then has to be constructed of a non ferromagnetic material to avoid shielding the inner vibrating stent layer from the activating magnetic field. The applied magnetic field could be adapted to have an alternating field direction such that the inner stent layer performs longitudinal vibrations or rotational vibrations or even stepped rotational movement. Any such movement regime will ensure that scar tissue growing through the openings of the outer stent layer will be cut or at least sufficiently damaged to prevent it from growing through the inner stent openings. The vibration procedure does not need to be performed continuously but can be performed at periodic intervals according to the rate of growth of the ingrowing tissue. A mechanism is necessary to ensure that the inner sheath remains constrained within the outer sheath so that it does not break free and pass down the artery which it is treating.

An alternative method is to construct the inner stent layer of a magnetic material and to magnetize it so that the interaction with an applied alternating magnetic field is stronger and easier to control. Thus for instance magnetizing the inner stent layer so that its poles are diametrically oppositely disposed will enable rotational vibration is to be readily achieved by applying a simple alternating magnetic field normal to the direction of the blood vessel. Longitudinal vibration could be generated by magnetizing the inner stent layer such that it has poles disposed at opposite ends of the inner stent layer. In such a case the alternating magnetic field must be applied such that it has a varying amplitude parallel to the direction of the blood vessel in which the stent is deployed. As an alternative to constructing the inner stent layer of a magnetic material it is feasible to attach tiny magnetic chips to the inner stent layer. Modern rare earth magnets having a high energy density could be feasible for this purpose.

Other methods of generating the vibrational motion of the inner stent layer is by the use of concentrated ultrasound energy which can induce mechanical vibrations into any non fixed element onto which the ultrasound energy is directed such as the inner sheath.

Besides the implementation of vibrations by an externally applied activating field operating on a suitably receptive vibrating element on the internal stent sheath or the internal stent sheath itself it may also be possible to provide an on board vibrating mechanism that will operate without external involvement. This would have the advantage of being able to operate in the background without user or medical staff intervention. One possible method is to use a micro miniature vibrating motor especially a vibrator of the piezoelectric type which is more energy efficient than a rotary motor powered by an on board battery. However because of the difficulty of access to the device to change its battery when depleted the battery should be chargeable. Such batteries can be charged by induction from an externally applied charging field which would only be necessary at infrequent intervals. Alternatively the battery could be maintained in a charged condition by utilizing energy from the subject s body itself. In the latter case there are many methods and devices designed to internally harvest energy from the human body. Such energy could be in the form of heat fluid flow chemical mechanical and electrical energy. One particularly convenient source of energy could be the pulsating behavior of the fluid flow within the lumen especially arising from blood flow pulsations. Such pulsating flow could be used to operate electromechanical generators such as based on MEMS devices and the electrical energy produced in the generator could be used to charge the on board battery. Another implementation could be to forego the need for an on board battery and to use the generated electrical energy to vibrate the device directly. All such cycles would thus convert the mechanical energy of the pulsating fluid to electrical energy and then back to mechanical energy to vibrate the device. Further implementations could utilize the pulsating flow to generate the mechanical displacements themselves between the parts of the device thus involving a mechanical to mechanical energy cycle.

Since the double layered stent must be capable of being deployed in the conventional manner and not to restrict blood flow through it whatever mechanism is used to generate the vibrations or motion must be such that it does not interfere with the stent deployment procedure nor with the blood flow. Consequently any vibrational mechanisms installed on the stent itself must be suitably miniaturized to prevent such interference. Both current and future nano technological developments should make such applications implementable without interference in the flow maintaining function of the stent.

The current most common medical use of stents is probably for maintaining free flow through coronary blood vessels and for supporting them. That is the application which has been generally used to describe the stent assembly invention in this disclosure. However use of the stent assemblies described in this application is not intended to be limited to such blood vessels and such stent assemblies can be used in other suitable bodily lumens including bifurcated stents for use at lumen junctions. Some such applications include esophageal stents duodenal stents colonic stents biliary stents pancreatic stents urinary tract and prostatic stents and peripheral blood vessel stents.

It is thus to be understood that the stent assemblies described and claimed in this disclosure are intended for use in treating any suitable bodily lumen whether specifically so described in this disclosure or not.

There is therefore provided an exemplary stent assembly adapted for deploying within a bodily lumen the stent assembly comprising 

 ii an inner element comprising a second expandable mesh the inner element having a smaller expanded diameter to the outer element and being disposed axially within the outer element and in close juxtaposition thereto and

In such a stent assembly the inner element may comprise a material which can undergo vibrational motion under the influence of an externally applied effect. The material of the inner element may be a ferromagnetic material or a magnetized material or there may be at least one permanent magnet attached to the second sheath and in all of these cases the externally applied effect should be an alternating magnetic field.

Alternatively the applied effect may be a directed ultrasound field adapted to cause the inner element to vibrate when applied in the direction of the stent assembly.

Furthermore in any of these above described stent assemblies the externally applied effect may be applied in such a direction that the inner element vibrates longitudinally within the outer element or rotationally within the outer element or in such a direction that the inner element can rotate within the outer element.

As an alternative to the vibrating mechanism using an externally applied field it may be disposed on the inner element. In such a case the vibrating mechanism may comprise a piezoelectric vibrating motor and it may also have a battery for activating the piezoelectric vibrating motor. The battery may advantageously be a rechargeable battery which may be adapted to be recharged by use of an external inductive charging field. Alternatively the stent assembly may further comprise a generator activated by flow of fluid through the lumen and wherein the battery is adapted to be recharged by the generator.

In an even further implementation the vibrating mechanism may comprise a mechanical converter for converting mechanical energy of flow of fluid in the lumen to vibrational energy applied to the inner element.

In any of the above described exemplary stent assemblies at least one of the elements should comprise a tab to prevent the inner element from becoming freed from its location within the outer element.

Additionally the bodily lumen in which the stent assembly is adapted to be installed may be a blood vessel. The bodily lumen may include a junction in which the stent assembly is installed.

Reference is now made to which illustrate schematically a cut away view of a subject s artery with a conventional prior art stent in its expanded state installed therein. In the stent is shown for illustrative purposes in position on top of a layer of plaque on the inner wall of a section of the artery partially expanded and ready for the plaque to be compressed by means of the balloon inflation. The balloon and its inflation tubing and the guidewire are not shown in to increase clarity.

Reference is now made to which is a cross sectional schematic view of the prior art stent of after installation in an artery . The wire mesh sections of the stent are shown slightly embedded into the wall of the artery with spaces between the wire mesh. To simplify the schematic drawing of the compressed plaque layer is not shown separately from the artery wall . The stent shown may be made of a stainless steel wire mesh though other materials such as nitinol may be used and fabric is even used for large arteries. In there is shown the effect of restenosis in which excess scar tissue and neointimal tissue proliferation has occurred through the openings in the stent mesh and has even spread to partially cover the mesh wires on the artery wall. Although in the drawing the excess tissue growth is marked distinctly from the artery wall tissue it is to be understood that the tissue layers are contiguous and that the sharp boundary line between them shown in is only for graphic delineation purposes. This process has thus generated restenosis in the treated artery which reduces the blood flow therethrough and if the excess tissue growth continues the subject will require angioplasty treatment again.

Reference is now made to which is an enlarged schematic illustration of a novel stent assembly constructed according to the present disclosure and installed into the artery of a subject. The stent assembly has two concentric wire mesh sheaths both of which have been expanded by application of balloon pressure through their internal bores. illustrates this stent assembly after having been installed for a period of time. The outer sheath is seen to have been embedded in the artery wall initially by the outward pressure of the balloon angioplasty but then maintained in this position by the growth of tissue from the artery wall into the spaces in the mesh of the outer stent sheath. The inner stent sheath is shown in close contact with the outer stent sheath but is free to move relative to the outer stent sheath . This freedom of movement is illustrated in by the small space shown between the sheaths though this is merely a schematic rendering and is not meant to indicate the extent of the fit between the two sheaths. An externally applied force field can cause the inner stent sheath to move or vibrate. This motion or vibration executed at periodic intervals has prevented the tissue growth from extending beyond the interface region between the inner and the outer stent sheaths. The motion or vibration can be achieved either longitudinally as shown by the arrow in the drawing or in rotation which in would mean rotation around an axis along the stent center line in the plane of the drawing depending on the nature of the field applied. Tabs or any other restraining element may be provided on the outer sheath to constrain the inner stent sheath within the outer stent sheath preventing the loose inner stent sheath from escaping into the artery in which the stent assembly has been implanted. Although in the implementation of the restraining element is shown on the outer stent sheath it is to be understood that it could equally well be fitted on the inner stent sheath such as one or more tabs engaged with spaces in the outer stent sheath.

The inner stent sheath could be made of a ferromagnetic material and the applied force field could be an alternating magnetic field applied from a coil or coils disposed outside the body of the subject. The inner stent sheath could even be made of a magnetic material and be magnetized in order to provide stronger forces in the applied magnetic field. Application of this external force and consequent motion of the inner stent sheath prevents growth of the tissue from the outer stent sheath into the spaces of the inner stent sheath preventing restenosis and thus maintaining a clear passage in the artery.

For implementations in which the stent vibration is achieved by means of an integral vibrator not shown in this together with its activating circuits and battery if any could be installed conformally on the mesh of the inner stent sheath so as not to impede the flow of body fluids through the installed stent.

Reference is now made to which show different isometric views of one implementation of the stent assembly shown schematically in . The exemplary implementation shown in uses stent sheaths with a diamond shaped mesh construction. shows a side view of the stent assembly while shows an end view of the stent assembly so that the inner vibrating stent sheath the outer stent sheath and the space between them can be clearly seen.

It is appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited by what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and subcombinations of various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereto which would occur to a person of skill in the art upon reading the above description and which are not in the prior art.

