---

title: Service system and method of providing service in digital receiver thereof
abstract: Disclosed are a service system and a method of providing a service in a digital receiver. The service providing method includes selecting content including an identifier with respect to an SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content from a service guide, and outputting the selected content and the SNS or the data exchange space linked to the content in respective areas of a screen. The SNS linked to the content includes a data exchange space configured to allow one or more SNS users to simultaneously access the data exchange space using an open API from the server, and also includes a SNS identifier having a format as access information for the corresponding data exchange space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497269&OS=09497269&RS=09497269
owner: LG ELECTRONICS INC.
number: 09497269
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20121228
---
This application claims the benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2011 0144739 filed on Dec. 28 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to operation of a service system and a digital receiver and more particularly to a service system for provision of a Social Networking Service SNS that has recently been popular and a method of providing the SNS in a digital receiver.

Broadcasting is rapidly converting from analog to digital all over the world. As compared to traditional analog broadcasting digital broadcasting has lower data loss owing to high resistance to noise is advantageous for error correction and provides higher resolution and consequently more vivid imagery. Moreover provision of a bidirectional service is possible under digital broadcasting unlike in analog broadcasting.

In addition to conventional media such as terrestrial satellite and cable media in recent years an Internet Protocol Television IPTV broadcasting service related to digital content such as real time broadcasting and Content on Demand CoD for example has also been implemented via an IP network connected to individual homes.

Additionally although SNSs are becoming increasingly popular due to wide diffusion of mobile appliances such as smart phones or tablet PCs SNSs are less employed in TVs than the mobile appliances due to several limitations such as options of a receiver and the size of a display for example. Under such an environment digital receivers cannot completely meet the needs of users and cause inconvenience in that a user still has to satisfy a passive environment via a digital receiver.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a service system and a method of providing a service in a digital receiver that substantially obviate one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

An object of the present invention is to provide a digital receiver to assist a variety of service scenarios and a service system for the same.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of providing a user of a digital receiver with a more active environment via a service system thereby assisting the user in more easily and conveniently using services such as an SNS and a User Interface UI for the same.

Additional advantages objects and features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these objects and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein a method of providing a service in a digital receiver includes selecting content including an identifier with respect to a Social Networking Service SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content from a service guide and outputting the selected content and the SNS or the data exchange space linked to the content in respective areas of a screen wherein the SNS linked to the content includes a data exchange space configured to allow one or more SNS users to simultaneously access the data exchange space using an open Application Programming Interface API from the server and also includes a SNS identifier having a format as access information for the corresponding data exchange space.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method of providing a service in a digital receiver includes executing an SNS outputting based on a reference a list of at least one service item linked to at least one content among the executed SNS and outputting a service window for the service item selected from the output list and content linked to the service item in respective areas of a screen.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a digital receiver equipped in a service system includes a first receiving unit configured to receive a service guide including an identifier with respect to an SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content from a server a second receiving unit configured to select content from the service guide a control unit configured to control output of the selected content and the SNS or the data exchange space linked to the content in respective areas of a screen a decoder configured to configure the content and the SNS or the data exchange space under the control of the control unit and a display unit configured to output the configured content and the configured SNS or data exchange space in the respective areas of the screen wherein the SNS linked to the content includes a data exchange space configured to allow one or more SNS users to simultaneously access the data exchange space using an open API from the server and also includes a SNS identifier having a format as access information for the corresponding data exchange space.

In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention a digital receiver equipped in a service system includes a server configured to generate a service guide including an identifier with respect to an SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content a control unit configured to receive a request for execution of an SNS generates a list of at least one SNS or data exchange space linked to at least one content controls output of the SNS or the data exchange space based on a reference and control output of at least one of the content and the SNS or the data exchange space selected from the list and a display unit configured to output the content and the SNS or the data exchange space in respective areas of a screen under control of the control unit.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description of the present invention are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Hereinafter the present invention will be described in detail with reference to illustrations of the accompanying drawings.

The terms module and unit attached to describe the names of components are used herein to help the understanding of the components and thus should not be considered as having particular meanings or roles. Accordingly the terms module and unit may be used interchangeably.

An example of a digital receiver according to the present invention as described herein is an intelligent receiver equipped with a computer support function in addition to a broadcasting reception function for example. As a result of an Internet function being added to a broadcasting reception function the digital receiver may include a convenient interface such as a hand writing input device a touch screen or a remote controller for example. Further owing to provision of wired or wireless Internet functions the digital receiver may implement various functions such as e mail transmission reception Web browsing banking or gaming for example when connected to the Internet or a computer. To facilitate implementation of the aforementioned various functions the digital receiver may operate based on a standard general purpose Operating System OS . Additionally the digital receiver may be configured such that various applications may be freely added to or deleted from for example a general purpose OS kernel and thus may implement various user friendly functions. This kind of digital receiver may include for example a network TV a Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV HBBTV a smart TV and a social TV and as occasion demands may also include a smart phone or a Personal Digital Assistant PDA .

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the attached drawings and illustrations thereof but it should be understood that the present invention is not restricted or limited by the embodiments that will be described hereinafter.

Although the terms used in the following description are selected as much as possible from general terms that are widely used at present while taking into consideration the functions obtained in accordance with the present invention these terms may be replaced by other terms based on intensions of those skilled in the art customs emergence of new technologies or the like. Also in a particular case terms that are arbitrarily selected by the applicant of the present invention may be used. In this case the meanings of these terms may be described in corresponding description parts of the invention. Accordingly it should be noted that the terms used herein should be construed based on practical meanings thereof and the whole content of this specification rather than being simply construed based on names of the terms.

A digital receiver equipped in a service system for providing a Social Networking Service SNS according to an example of the present invention may include a first receiver that receives a service guide including an identifier with respect to an SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content from a server a second receiver that receives selected content from the service guide a control unit that controls output of the selected content and the SNS or the data exchange space linked to the content in respective areas of a screen a decoder that configures content and the SNS or the data exchange space under the control of the control unit and a display unit that outputs the configured content and the configured SNS or data exchange space in the respective areas of the screen. In this case the SNS linked to the content may include a data exchange space configured to allow a plurality of users of at least one SNS to simultaneously access the data exchange space using an open Application Programming Interface API from the server and may also include a SNS identifier having a format as access information with respect to the corresponding data exchange space.

In the above described digital receiver the second receiver may request opening of an SNS data exchange space linked to a particular program and the control unit may determine whether or not a request for content change or channel switching is input and may determine whether or not an SNS linked to changed content or a switched channel is present if the determined result shows that the request for content change or channel switching is input.

In the above description the control unit may inquire whether or not to terminate an existing SNS or may provide a new SNS after automatically terminating the existing SNS based on the presence of the SNS linked to the changed content or the switched channel. The SNS may not be provided via execution of an application for the corresponding SNS previously provided in the digital receiver. The SNS identifier may be allotted from at least one of an associated SNS server and a server to which the digital receiver belongs. The format may be configured to provide the existing SNS with each data exchange space linked to the output content regardless of a service type. The SNS may be at least one of an open SNS and a closed SNS. The SNS identifier is exclusive to the corresponding digital receiver regardless of channel content and service types. The SNS may also provide view rating information on the corresponding content and the digital receiver may further include a third receiver that receives a digital signal including content and signaling information on the content. The SNS linked to the content may be determined based on at least one reference selected from among a user of the same content open chat with respect to common interest content closed chat with respect to personal interest content genre sex age content viewing rate rating time channel broadcast station manufacturer friend and series.

A service system for an SNS according to an example of the present invention includes a server that generates a service guide including an identifier with respect to an SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content a control unit that receives a request for execution of an SNS generates a list of at least one SNS or data exchange space linked to at least one content controls output of the SNS or the data exchange space based on a reference and controls output of at least one of the content and the SNS or the data exchange space selected from the list and a display unit that outputs the content and the SNS or the data exchange space in respective areas of a screen under control of the control unit.

As illustrated in an example of a broadcast system equipped with a digital receiver according to the present invention includes a Content Provider CP a Service Provider SP a Network Provider NP and a Home Network End User FINED customer . For example the FINED may be a client i.e. a digital receiver according to the present invention. As described above the HNED may be a network TV a smart TV or an IPTV for example.

The content provider produces and provides a variety of content. Examples of the content provider as illustrated in may include a terrestrial broadcaster a cable System Operator cable SO a Multiple System Operator MSO a satellite broadcaster an Internet broadcaster and a private content provider. The content provider may provide for example a variety of applications as well as broadcast content. This will be described hereinafter in more detail.

The service provider may service package the content provided by the content provider and transmit the service packaged content. For example the service provider illustrated in may package a first terrestrial broadcast a second terrestrial broadcast a cable MSO a satellite broadcast various Internet broadcasts and applications and provide the packaged broadcasts to a user.

The service provider may provide a service to the client using a uni cast or multi cast method. The uni cast method is a method of transmitting data between a single transmitter and a single receiver in a one to one ratio. For example if a receiver requests data to a server in the uni cast method the server transmits the data to the corresponding receiver in response to the request. On the other hand the multi cast method is a method of transmitting data to a plurality of receivers within a particular group. For example a server transmits data to a plurality of pre registered receivers simultaneously. For example an Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP may be used for the multicast registration.

The content provider and the service provider may be the same entity. For example the content provider may produce content service package the content and provide the packaged service. Thus the content provider may perform the function of the service provider . Of course the converse case is also possible.

In the present invention a server that will be described hereinafter may serve as a service provider and a Cloud may serve as a service provider or a network provider.

Meanwhile for the sake of protection of content to be transmitted a server included in a broadcast system may utilize certain means such as conditional access and content protection means for example. In this case the client may utilize means corresponding to the conditional access or content protection means such as a cable card a Downloadable Conditional Access System DCAS or the like.

In addition the client may adopt a bi directional service via a network. In this case the client may also function as a content provider and the service provider may receive content from the client and in turn transmit the content to another client.

A digital receiver includes a network interface a Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP manager a service delivery manager a Service Information SI decoder a demultiplexer DEMUX an audio decoder a video decoder a display Audio Video A V and On Screen Display OSD module a service control manager a service discovery manager an SI metadata database DB a metadata manager a service manager and a User Interface UI manager for example.

The network interface may receive or transmit IP packets via a network. That is the network interface may receive for example a service and content from the service provider via a network.

The TCP IP manager has a role in transmission of the IP packets to and from the digital receiver i.e. in packet transmission between a source and a destination. The TCP IP manager may sort the received packets to correspond to appropriate protocols and output the sorted packets to the service delivery manager the service discovery manager the service control manager and the metadata manager for example.

The service delivery manager serves to control received service data. For example the service delivery manager may use a Real time Transport Protocol RTP RT Control Protocol RTCP in the case of controlling real time streaming data. When transmitting the real time streaming data using the RTP the service delivery manager may parse the received data packets based on the RTP and transmit the parsed data packets to the demultiplexer or may store the receive data packets in the SI metadata DB based on control of the service manager . The service delivery manager may return information received via the network to a service providing server using the RTCP.

The demultiplexer demultiplexes the received packets to audio video and System Information SI data and transmits the demultiplexed data to the audio and video decoders and and the SI decoder .

The SI decoder decodes service information system information or signaling information such as for example Program and System Information PSI PSI protocol PSIP and Digital Video Broadcasting Service Information DVB SI .

The SI decoder stores the decoded service information in for example the SI metadata DB . The stored service information for example may be read and used by a corresponding component in response to a user request. In the present invention service information related to an Electronic Program Guide EPG service depending on a user request a channel browser service or the like may also be read from the SI metadata DB . This will be described later in more detail.

The audio and video decoders and respectively decode audio data and video data demultiplexed in the demultiplexer . The decoded audio and video data are provided to a user via the display A V and OSD module .

An application manager may consist of the UI manager and the service manager for example. The application manager may manage overall states of the digital receiver provide a user interface and manage other managers.

The UI manager provides a Graphic User Interface GUI for a user using an OSD and the like and performs an operation of the receiver upon receiving a key input from the user. For example when receiving a key input signal for channel selection from the user the UI manager transmits the key input signal to the service manager .

The service manager controls a service associated manager such as the service delivery manager the service discovery manager the service control manager and the metadata manager for example.

The service manager makes a channel map and selects a channel using the channel map based on the key input received from the UI manager . Additionally the service manager receives channel service information from the SI decoder and sets an audio video Packet Identifier PID of the selected channel to the demultiplexer . The set PID is used for the above described demultiplexing. Thus the demultiplexer filters audio data video data and SI data using the PID.

The service discovery manager provides information required to select a service provider that provides a service. When receiving a signal for channel selection from the service manager the service discovery manager searches a service using the information.

The service control manager takes charge of selection and control of a service. For example the service control manager may perform selection and control of a service using the IGMP or a Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP if a user selects a live broadcasting service of the same type as a traditional broadcasting service or using the RTSP if the user selects a Video on Demand VOD service. The RTSP may provide a trick mode with respect to real time streaming. The service control manager may initialize and manage a session through an IMS gateway using an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and a Session Initiation Protocol SIP . The aforementioned protocols are given by way of example and other protocols may be used according to embodiments.

The metadata manager manages service associated metadata and stores the metadata in the SI metadata DB .

The SI metadata DB stores the service information decoded by the SI decoder the metadata managed by the metadata manager and information required to select the SP provided by the service discovery manager . Additionally the SI metadata DB may store for example system setup data.

The IMS gateway may be a gateway in which functions required to access an IMS based IPTV service are collected.

Referring to an example of a digital receiver according to the present invention may include a broadcast receiving unit an external interface unit a storage unit a user input interface a control unit a display unit an audio output unit a power supply unit and an image capturing unit not shown . The broadcast receiving unit may include at least one tuner a demodulator and a network interface unit . As occasion demands the broadcast receiving unit may be designed to include a tuner and a demodulator without a network interface unit or may be designed to include only the network interface unit without the tuner and the demodulator . Although not illustrated the broadcast receiving unit may further include a multiplexer to multiplex a signal that has passed through the tuner and demodulated by the demodulator and a signal that has been received through the network interface unit . Additionally although not illustrated the broadcast receiving unit may further include a demultiplexer to demultiplex the multiplexed signal or the demodulated signal or to demultiplex the signal that has passed through the network interface unit .

The tuner receives one of Radio Frequency RF broadcast signals received through an antenna by tuning a user selected channel or all pre stored channels. Then the tuner converts the received RF broadcast signal into an Intermediate Frequency IF signal or a baseband signal.

For example the tuner may convert the received RF broadcast signal into a digital IF DIF signal if the RF broadcast signal is a digital broadcast signal or may convert the received RF broadcast signal into an analog baseband audio or video signal Composite Video Banking Sync Sound Intercarrier Frequency CVBS SIF signal if the RF broadcast signal is an analog broadcast signal. That is the tuner may process both digital and analog broadcast signals. The analog baseband audio or video signal CVBS SIF signal output from the tuner may be directly input to the control unit .

The tuner may receive an RF broadcast signal of a single carrier based on an Advanced Television System Committee ATSC mode or an RF broadcast signal of multiple carriers based on a Digital Video Broadcasting DVB mode.

Additionally the tuner may convert one of the RF broadcast signals received through the antenna into the IF signal or the baseband signal by sequentially tuning and receiving the RF broadcast signals of all broadcast channels stored via a channel memory function.

For example if the digital IF signal output from the tuner is based on the ATSC mode the demodulator performs for example 8 Vestigal Side Band 8 VSB demodulation. Also the demodulator may perform channel decoding. To this end the demodulator may include a trellis decoder a de interleaver and a Reed Solomon RS decoder and may perform trellis decoding de interleaving and RS decoding.

For example if the digital IF signal output from the tuner is based on the DVB mode the demodulator performs for example Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access COFDMA demodulation. Also the demodulator may perform channel decoding. To this end the demodulator may include a convolution decoder a de interleaver and an RS decoder and may perform convolution decoding de interleaving and RS decoding.

The demodulator may output a stream signal after performing the demodulation and the channel decoding. In this case the stream signal may be obtained by multiplexing a video signal an audio signal or a data signal. For example the stream signal may be MPEG 2 Transport Stream TS obtained by multiplexing an MPEG 2 video signal or a Dolby AC 3 audio signal. More specifically the MPEG 2 TS may contain a 4 bype header and a 184 byte payload.

The demodulator as described above may be provided separately for the ATSC mode and the DVB mode. That is the digital receiver may include an ATSC demodulator and a DVB demodulator.

The stream signal output from the demodulator may be input to the control unit . For example the control unit may control demultiplexing and video audio signal processing and may also control video output through the display unit and audio output through the audio output unit .

The external interface unit provides the digital receiver with an interface environment for a variety of external devices. To this end the external interface unit may include an A V input output unit not shown or a wireless communication unit not shown .

The external interface unit may be connected to an external device such as a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a Blu ray a game device a camera a camcorder a computer e.g. a laptop computer or the like in a wired or wireless manner. The external interface unit transmits a video audio or data signal externally input through the external device connected thereto to the control unit of the digital receiver. Also the external interface unit may output the video audio or data signal processed by the control unit to the external device. To this end the external interface unit may further include an A V input output unit or a wireless communication unit not shown .

The A V input output unit may include a Universal Serial Bus USB terminal a CVBS terminal a component terminal an S video terminal analog a Digital Visual Interface DVI terminal a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI terminal an RGB terminal and a D SUB terminal for example to input video and audio signals of the external device to the digital receiver .

The wireless communication unit may perform a short range wireless communication with other electronic appliances. For example network connection between the digital receiver and other electronic appliances may be realized via a communication protocol such as Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrared Data Association IrDA Ultra Wideband UWB ZigBee Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA and the like.

In addition the external interface unit may be connected to various set top boxes through at least one of the above mentioned various terminals and may perform an input output operation with the set top boxes.

The external interface unit may receive an application or an application list from an adjacent external device and may transmit the same to the control unit or the storage unit .

The network interface unit provides an interface for connecting the digital receiver to a wired or wireless network including an Internet network. The network interface unit may include an Ethernet terminal for example for wired network connection or may use a communication standard such as Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wi Fi Wireless broadband Wibro World Interoperability for Microwave Access Wimax and High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA for example for wireless network connection.

The network interface unit may transmit or receive data to and from other users or other electronic appliances through a network connected thereto or another network linked on the connected network. In particular the network interface unit may transmit a part of content data stored in the digital receiver to a selected one of other users previously registered in the digital receiver or a selected one of other electronic appliances previously registered in the digital receiver .

The network interface unit may access a predetermined Web page through a network connected thereto or another network linked on the connected network. That is the network interface unit may transmit or receive data to or from a corresponding server by accessing the predetermined Web page through the network. Additionally the network interface unit may receive content or data provided by a content provider or a network manager. More specifically the network interface unit may receive content such as movies advertisements games VOD and broadcast signals for example and associated information provided by a content provider or a network manager through a network. In addition the network interface unit may receive update information and update files of firmware provided by a network manager and may transmit data to the Internet a content provider or a network manager.

The network interface unit may select and receive a desired application among multiple applications that are open to the public through a network.

In the above description of the network interface unit for example may transmit and receive service data via communication with a server or Cloud that will be described hereinafter.

The storage unit may store a program for processing and controlling each signal of the control unit or may store the processed video audio or data signal.

Also the storage unit may function to temporarily store the video audio or data signal input from the external interface unit or the network interface unit . The storage unit may store information on a predetermined broadcast channel through a channel memory function.

The storage unit may store an application or an application list input from the external interface unit or the network interface unit . Additionally the storage unit may store various platforms that will be described hereinafter.

For example the storage unit may include a storage medium of at least one type of a flash memory type a hard disk type a multimedia card micro type a card type memory for example SD or XD memory RAM and ROM for example EEPROM . The digital receiver may play a content file for example a moving picture file a still image file a music file a text file and an application file stored in the storage unit to provide the played content file to a user.

Although shows the embodiment in which the storage unit and the control unit are provided separately the scope of the invention is not limited to the embodiment of . The storage unit may be included in the control unit .

The user input interface may transmit a signal input by a user to the control unit or may transmit a signal input from the control unit to the user.

For example the user input interface unit may receive and process a control signal such as power on off channel selection and screen setup for example from a remote controller in accordance with various communication modes such as an RF communication mode and IR communication mode for example. Alternatively the user input interface unit may transmit a control signal from the control unit to the remote controller .

Also the user input interface unit may transmit a control signal input by a local key such as a power key a channel key a volume key and a setup key to the control unit .

The user input interface unit may transmit a control signal input by a sensing unit not shown which senses a user gesture to the control unit or may transmit the signal from the control unit to the sensing unit not shown . In this case the sensing unit not shown may include a touch sensor an audio sensor a position sensor and an action sensor for example.

The control unit may demultiplex a stream input through the tuner the demodulator or the external device interface or may process the demultiplexed signal to generate and output a signal for a video and audio output.

The video signal processed by the control unit may be input to the display unit and be displayed as a corresponding image. Also the video signal processed by the control unit may be input to an external output device through the external interface unit .

The audio signal processed by the control unit may be output to the audio output unit . Also the audio signal processed by the control unit may be input to an external output device through the external interface unit .

Although not illustrated in the control unit may include a demultiplexer and a video processor for example.

The control unit may control the overall operations of the digital receiver . For example the control unit may control the tuner so as to tune an RF broadcast signal corresponding to a user selected channel or a pre stored channel.

The control unit may control the digital receiver in response to a user command input through the user input interface or using a program stored therein. In particular the control unit may access a network and download an application or an application list selected by a user to the digital receiver .

In one example the control unit controls the tuner so as to receive a signal of a channel selected in response to a specific channel selection command received through the user input interface unit . Then the control unit processes an audio video or data signal of the selected channel. The control unit may also output for example information on the user selected channel as well as the processed video or audio signal to the display unit or the audio output unit .

In another example the control unit may output a video or audio signal input from an external device such as for example a camera or a camcorder through the external interface unit to the display unit or the audio output unit in response to an external device video playback command received through the user input interface .

The control unit may control the display unit to display an image. For example the control unit may control the display unit so as to display a broadcast image received from the tuner an externally input image received through the external interface unit an image received through the network interface unit or an image stored in the storage unit . In this case the image displayed on the display unit may be a 2 Dimensional 2D or 3 Dimensional 3D still image or moving image.

Additionally the control unit may control content playback. Here the content may be content stored in the digital receiver received broadcasting content or externally input content. The content may include at least one of a broadcast image an externally input image an audio file a still image an accessed Web page and a text file.

In the case of entering an application view item the control unit may control display of an application or an application list that is stored in the digital receiver or that is downloadable from an external network.

The control unit may control installation and driving of an application downloaded from an external network in addition to various user interfaces. Also the control unit may control the display unit to display an image associated with an application that is executed by user selection.

Although not illustrated in the drawings a channel browsing processor to produce a thumbnail image corresponding to a channel signal or an externally input signal may be further provided.

The channel browsing processor may receive for example a stream signal output from the demodulator or a stream signal output from the external interface unit extract an image from the received stream signal and produce a thumbnail image. The produced thumbnail image may be directly input to the control unit or may be input after being encoded. Also the produced thumbnail image may be encoded into a stream and input to the control unit . The control unit may control the display unit to display a thumbnail list consisting of a plurality of input thumbnail images. The thumbnail images within the thumbnail list may be updated sequentially or simultaneously. As such a user can readily identify content of a plurality of broadcasting channels.

The display unit converts the video signal data signal and OSD signal processed by the control unit or the video signal and data signal received from the external interface unit to R G B signals respectively to generate driving signals.

The display unit may be selected from among a Plasma Display Panel PDP a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED a flexible display and a 3D display for example.

The display unit may take the form of a touchscreen. In this case the display unit may serve not only an output device but also an input device.

The audio output unit receives a signal audio processed by the control unit for example a stereo signal a 3.1 channel signal or a 5.1 channel signal and outputs the received signal as sound. Various types of speakers may be used as the audio output unit .

To sense a user gesture as described above the digital receiver may further include a sensing unit not shown that includes at least one of a touch sensor an audio sensor a position sensor and an action sensor. The signal sensed by the sensing unit not shown may be transmitted to the control unit through the user input interface unit .

The digital receiver may further include an image capturing unit not shown to capture an image of a user. Image information taken by the image capturing unit not shown may be input to the control unit .

The control unit may sense a user gesture by using the image captured by the image capturing unit not shown and the signal sensed from the sensing unit not shown respectively or in combination.

In particular the power supply unit may supply power to the control unit that may be realized in a System on Chip SOC form the display unit for image display and the audio output unit for audio output.

To this end the power supply unit may include a converter not shown that converts AC power to DC power. For example if the display unit takes the form of a liquid crystal panel having a plurality of backlight lamps it may further include an inverter not shown that is operable in a Pulse Width Modulation PWM manner for brightness change or dimming driving.

The remote controller transmits a user input to the user input interface unit . To this end the remote controller may use Bluetooth RF communication IR communication UWB ZigBee and the like.

Also the remote controller may receive the video signal audio signal or data signal output from the user input interface to display the received signal or output sound or vibration.

The above described digital receiver may be a fixed type or mobile type digital broadcast receiver that can process ATSC mode or DVB mode digital broadcast signals.

The digital receiver illustrated in is provided according to the exemplary embodiments of the present invention and the respective components thereof may be incorporated added or omitted depending on options of the digital receiver which is actually implemented. In other words two or more components may be incorporated into one component or one component may be divided into two or more components as necessary. Also the function performed by each block is intended for description of the embodiment of the invention and its detailed action or device does not limit the scope of the invention.

In addition the digital receiver according to the present invention may further include some components not illustrated in or may omit some components illustrated in as necessary. Unlike the embodiments illustrated in the digital receiver may receive and play content through the network interface or the external interface unit without the tuner and the demodulator.

The digital receiver is an example of an image signal processor that performs signal processing of an image stored therein or an input image. Other examples of the image signal processor include a set top box that excludes the display unit and the audio output unit the aforementioned DVD player a blu ray player a game device and a computer as well as others. Among the aforementioned examples the set top box will be described hereinafter with reference to .

First referring to a set top box and a display device may perform transmission or reception of data in a wired or wireless manner.

The set top box may include a network interface unit a storage unit a signal processing unit a user input interface unit and an external interface unit .

The network interface unit provides an interface for connection with a wired or wireless network including an Internet network. The network interface unit may enable data transmission reception with other users or other appliances through a connected network or other networks linked on the connected network.

The storage unit may store data for processing and control of each signal within the signal processing unit . The storage unit may temporarily storage a video signal an audio signal or a data signal input from the external interface unit or the network interface unit .

The signal processing unit performs processing of an input signal. For example the signal processing unit may perform demultiplexing or decoding of a video signal or an audio signal for example. To this end the signal processing unit may include a video decoder and or an audio decoder. The signal processing unit may transmit a processed video signal and or audio signal to the display device through the external interface unit .

The user input interface unit may transmit a user input signal to the signal processing unit or a signal of the signal processing unit to a user. For example the user input interface unit may receive various control signals such as a power on off signal an operation input signal and a setup signal for example input through a local key not shown or the remote controller and transmit the received signal to the signal processing unit .

The external interface unit provides an interface for transmission or reception of data with an external device connected thereto in a wired or wireless manner. In particular the external interface unit provides an interface for transmission or reception of data with the display device . The external interface unit may provide an interface for transmission or reception of data with the external device such as a game device a camera a camcorder a computer e.g. a laptop computer or the like.

The set top box may further include a media input unit not shown for media playback. One example of the media input unit may include a Blu ray input unit not shown . That is the set top box may include a Blu ray player. An input medium such as for example a Blu ray disc may be subjected to signal processing such as demultiplexing or decoding in the signal processing unit and the resulting signal may be transmitted to the display device through the external interface unit so as to be displayed on the display device .

The display device may include a tuner an external interface unit a demodulator a storage unit a control unit a user input interface unit a display unit and an audio output unit .

The tuner the demodulator the storage unit the control unit the user input interface unit the display unit and the audio output unit correspond to the tuner the demodulator the storage unit the control unit the user input interface unit the display unit and the audio output unit as described above in and thus a description thereof will be replaced by the above description of and will hereinafter not be described in detail.

The external interface unit provides an interface for transmission or reception of data with an external device connected thereto in a wired or wireless manner. In particular the external interface unit provides an interface for transmission or reception of data with the set top box .

As such a video signal or an audio signal input through the set top box passes through the control unit and is output from the display unit or the audio output unit .

Referring to although the set top box and the display device are substantially equal to the set top box and the display device illustrated in the tuner and the demodulator are mounted in the set top box rather than being mounted in the display device unlike the illustration of . Hereinafter a repeated description will be replaced by the above description and only differences will be described.

The signal processing unit performs processing of a broadcast signal received through the tuner and the demodulator . The user input interface unit receives an input with respect to channel selection and channel storage for example.

An example of a control unit according to the present invention may include a demultiplexer an image processor an On Screen Display OSD generator a mixer a Frame Rate Converter FRC and a formatter . The control unit may further include an audio processor not shown and a data processor not shown .

The demultiplexer serves to demultiplex an input stream. For example the demultiplexer may demultiplex an input MPEG 2 TS into a video signal an audio signal and a data signal. Here the stream signal input to the demultiplexer may be a stream signal output from the tuner the demodulator or the external interface unit .

The video processor processes the demultiplexed video signal. To this end the video processor may include a video decoder and a scaler .

The video decoder decodes the demultiplexed video signal and the scaler scales a resolution of the decoded video signal so that the video signal can be displayed on the display unit .

The video decoder may operate based on various standards. For example the video decoder may function as an MPEG 2 decoder if the video signal is an MPEG 2 encoded video signal. Also the video decoder may function as an H.264 decoder if the video signal is a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB or H.264 encoded signal.

The OSD generator generates OSD data autonomously or in response to a user input. For example the OSD generator generates data by which a variety of data is displayed as graphics or text on a screen of the display unit based on a control signal of the user input interface unit . The generated OSD data includes various data such as a UI screen of the digital receiver a variety of menu screens widgets icons and information on an audience rating for example.

The OSD generator may generate data by which subtitles are displayed for a broadcast image or EPG based broadcasting information.

The mixer may mix the video signal processed by the video processor with the OSD data generated by the OSD generator and output the mixed signal to the formatter . As the decoded video signal is mixed with the OSD data an OSD may be overlaid on the broadcast image or the externally input image.

The FRC may change the frame rate of an input image. For example the FRC may change a frame rate of 60 Hz of an input image into a frame rate of 120 or 240 Hz according to an output frequency of the display unit . As described above a variety of methods to change the frame rate may be used. In one example if the frame rate is to be changed from 60 Hz to 120 Hz the FRC may insert a first frame between the first frame and a second frame or may insert a third frame predicted from the first and second frames. In another example if the frame rate is to be changed from 60 Hz to 240 Hz the FRC may insert three identical frames or three predicted frames between the existing frames. It is also possible to bypass the FRC when frame rate change is not performed.

The formatter changes the output of the FRC to suit the output format of the display unit . For example the formatter may output R G and B data signals. The R G and B data signals may be output in the form of a Low Voltage Differential Signal LVDS or mini LVDS. Also if the FRC outputs a 3D video signal the formatter converts the 3D video signal into a 3D signal to suit the output format of the display unit thereby assisting a 3D service via the display unit .

The audio processor not shown of the control unit may process the demultiplexed audio signal. The audio processor not shown may be configured to process a variety of audio formats. For example if the audio signal is encoded into an MPEG 2 MPEG 4 AAC HE AAC AC 3 and BSAC format the audio processor not shown may include corresponding decoders to process the respective encoded signals.

The audio processor not shown within the control unit may also adjust the base treble and volume of the audio signal.

The data processor not shown within the control unit may process the demultiplexed data signal. For example if the demultiplexed data signal is an encoded data signal the data processor may decode the encoded data signal. Here the encoded data signal may include Electronic Program Guide EPG information which includes broadcast information specifying for example the start time and end time of scheduled broadcast programs of each channel.

The control unit illustrated in is given by way of example and other components may be added or some of the illustrated components may be omitted according to the needs of those skilled in the art.

According to embodiments to perform various operations for implementation of the present invention various User Interface Devices UIDs that can perform wired or wireless communication with a digital receiver may be used as a remote controller. In addition to the user interface devices only for the digital receiver other portable devices such as smart phones and tablet PCs for example may be used as a remote controller.

The remote controller may use various communication standards such as Bluetooth Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrared Data Association IrDA UWB ZigBee Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA and the like.

The user interface devices may include a typical remote controller a magic remote controller and a remote controller equipped with a keyboard and a touch pad for example.

The magic remote controller may be internally equipped with a gyro sensor therein to detect trembling or rotation of the hand. That is the magic remote controller may move a pointer as a user moves the magic remote controller up and down side to side and back and forth which assists the user in easily performing a desired operation for example in easily controlling a channel or a menu.

In the case of the remote controller equipped with a keyboard and a touch pad the keyboard facilitates easy input of text and the touch pad facilitates easy movement of the pointer and control in the expansion and reduction of pictures or moving images.

To receive information on an EPG thumbnail image channel browser and viewing rate for example according to the present invention a user may easily perform various operations such as selection of a particular menu item for example via the aforementioned various user interface devices.

Hereinafter various embodiments of a service system and a method of processing a service in a digital receiver according to the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

To provide a further understanding of the present invention and convenience of explanation a service will be described as a SNS herein by way of example. Accordingly a digital receiver for example includes a smart TV or a social TV that provides an SNS. Meanwhile in the present invention an SNS provided by the digital receiver will be described as classified into an open SNS and a closed SNS. It is noted that this illustration and division or classification is given to provide a further understanding of the present invention and convenience of explanation and the present invention is not limited to embodiments that will be described hereinafter.

To use an SNS via a digital receiver for example a user typically has to execute an application for an SNS stored in the digital receiver or after downloading the corresponding application and then to perform service admission and log in procedures. Additionally to access a data exchange space established within the SNS in relation to content for example a chat group as a subordinate structure of an SNS the user has to perform a search procedure after the aforementioned procedures. Even in this case if a plurality of data exchange spaces is established and a sufficient amount of search information is not provided significant time and effort are required to access a desired data exchange space. This may result in user dissatisfaction and inconvenience with respect to use of an SNS.

To solve the above described problem the present invention is devised to assist a user in more easily and conveniently accessing and using an SNS using a digital receiver even without performing the aforementioned troublesome procedures such as execution of an SNS application service admission and log in procedures. Here the SNS may be referred to as all SNSs linked to or not linked to content. Content is referred to as all services and or applications that can be driven or realized by a digital receiver such as broadcast services games and external inputs for example. In conclusion differently from a conventional SNS providing method in which a digital receiver provides a service UI a screen or the like that is associated with an SNS application if the user calls and executes the corresponding SNS application the present invention relates to a service system and a method of providing a service in a digital receiver which allows a user who does not join an SNS or even a member of the corresponding SNS to more rapidly and conveniently use content and an SNS linked to the content even without executing an application for the corresponding SNS and or performing the log in procedure.

As described above to provide a further understanding of the present invention and convenience of explanation an open SNS and a closed SNS will hereinafter be described respectively.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a service providing method to provide information on content to for example a service guide may provide an area of a digital receiver with an SNS linked to the corresponding content thereby assisting the user in more easily and conveniently using the corresponding content. Here using the content for example may include watching playback recording and recording reservation of the corresponding content.

Meanwhile in the present invention although the SNS is an SNS linked to content an SNS to be executed may not be a data exchange space with respect to content. For example a data exchange space with respect to content may be referred to as an open SNS and the converse case may be referred to as a closed SNS. This will hereinafter be described in more detail. An SNS according to the present invention may be provided based on various references such as users of the same content open chat in relation to common interest content closed chat in relation to personal interest content genre sex age content viewing rate rating time channel broadcast station manufacturer friend and series for example. In this case although the aforementioned references may individually be a reference for provision of an SNS two or more of the references may be combined to serve as a reference as necessary.

Even if a digital receiver is not set such that an SNS is driven simultaneously with content playback via for example the service guide as described above the digital receiver may provide a user with for example a text or an alarm indicating that an SNS provided in relation to content that is being played back is present or is newly open or that a friend turns on his her digital receiver or invites a user while the user uses the corresponding SNS. For convenience of access the digital receiver may adopt the same access method as in the above described service guide. For example the digital receiver may provide identifier information such as temporary log in information for access to an SNS.

Meanwhile the digital receiver may provide functions of an SNS such as friend registration invitation and message service for example in relation to a user who uses the corresponding SNS. In this case assuming that an SNS is provided in an area of the digital receiver the digital receiver may automatically execute an associated User Interface UI such as an emoticon and a keyboard image for example for convenience of use.

In the present invention the digital receiver is not limited to a fixed digital broadcast receiver and may be linked to a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet PC for example. Assuming that the digital receiver is a TV and a user attempts to watch the TV while using an SNS via a mobile device the TV may provide a window for automatic execution and or log in of an application for the SNS used in the mobile device or for execution of another SNS in response to a user request. In this case the TV may display all data previously used in the mobile device and provide an associated UI. The user may use the SNS executed in the TV while continuously using the mobile device as input means. Also the mobile device may end the SNS and only the TV may drive the corresponding SNS.

If change in the playback or execution of content occurs during use of an SNS linked to the content according to the present invention a question of handling of the SNS being driven may be raised. For example the occurrence of change may refer to the case in which an SNS has been used during execution of a game application and thereafter the game application is terminating the case in which a user shuts down a broadcast program and the case in which change in the status of content such as channel switching occurs. In one example it is assumed that content is a broadcast program. In this case if the user switches a channel during use of an SNS linked to a broadcast program while watching the broadcast program it is necessary to determine whether or not to continuously provide the SNS that is currently used even in a switched channel or to terminate provision of the SNS. Further if even the switched channel provides a new SNS a question of handling of the existing SNS may be raised. In the aforementioned cases different solutions may be proposed between an open SNS and a closed SNS. For example in the case of an open SNS the digital receiver may provide an inquiry about whether or not to terminate an SNS that has been executed in a previous channel and or an inquiry as to whether or not to participate in an SNS that is provided in a switched channel and or an execution UI thereby providing an SNS based on user selection. However since it is likely that the user is simply searching channels or erroneously switches a channel the SNS may be passively executed based on user selection. If the switched channel is maintained for a predetermined time or more the digital receiver may automatically or manually provide an inquiry about whether or not to maintain the previously activated SNS or may terminate or switch the SNS. On the other hand in the case of a closed SNS the digital receiver may directly use identification information of a previous channel or may request new identification information to a server when automatically coming in an SNS activated in a switched channel.

Meanwhile if a plurality of SNSs is linked to single content or an SNS contains a plurality of data exchange spaces a question of handling of this situation may be raised. To handle this situation in one example the digital receiver or the server may provide each SNS or each data exchange space with data sorted based on a reference such as a participation rate the number of participants the degree of activation the presence of friends and the presence of a theme for example. As such the user may manually select an SNS or a data exchange space based on the aforementioned information or the digital receiver or the server may automatically select and provide an SNS or a data exchange space in consideration of tendency of a user previously stored therein.

Additionally the digital receiver may simultaneously provide a plurality of SNSs or a plurality of data exchange spaces established in an SNS during use of content. For example as described above the digital receiver may simultaneously or successively provide the open SNS and the closed SNS and may provide only high rank spaces among a plurality of data exchange spaces established in an SNS linked to content based on the aforementioned reference.

The method of providing a service in the digital receiver according to the present invention may use an open API that is basically provided by a service providing enterprise a server and the like. The open API is used in the closed SNS as well as the open SNS that will be described below.

Hereinafter first the service system associated with provision of a service according to the present invention will be described. As described above provision of a service according to the present invention may be accomplished via a service guide. In this case basically the service guide thumbnail images and channel browsers and the like hereinafter commonly referred to as a service guide for convenience may be provided via the service system that will be described hereinafter. Of course the service according to the present invention may also be provided via the service system that will be described hereinafter.

A digital receiver may configure and provide an EPG by receiving EPG data as one example of service information from a broadcast station . Alternatively the digital receiver may configure and provide an EPG by receiving EPG data from an EPG server that serves as an EPG data source.

In the former case the EPG data is for example transmitted in the form of service information or system information SI included in a digital broadcast signal that is received from the digital receiver through a tuned channel. The service information for example may include a Service Description Table SDT and Event Information Table EIT in the case of a DVB system and may include PSI PSIP information such as a Program Association Table PAT Program Map Table PMT Virtual Channel Table VCT EIT and the like in the case of an ATSC system. The digital receiver parses the received service information and configures an EPG based on the parsed data so as to provide a service. However it is likely that the service information transmitted from the broadcast station is not sufficient to provide the corresponding service and there is a limit to the quality of a service because the digital receiver should perform tuning of a corresponding channel and due to a limit to tunable channels.

In the latter case the external server is an individual EPG service server and provides additional EPG data distinguished from or not provided by the service information of the broadcast station or various other data related to prime time or prime program. However the resulting service may require an individual contract and be a pay service in most cases and may require basic EPG data.

As described above the digital receiver may receive EPG service data transmitted from the broadcast station or the EPG server to provide the data to the user or may receive EPG service data from both the broadcast station and the EPG server to provide the combined EPG data to the user.

Referring to the service system according to the present invention may basically include a broadcast station a digital receiver and a first server . Here the first server for example may be a server that is provided by a manufacturer of the digital receiver . The first server may include a control unit an SNS module a crawler module a search module a processor databases and and a search engine for example. The service system may further include for example a second server for providing an EPG and or an SNS as described above. Although illustrates the single second server the second server may be a combination of an EPG providing server and an SNS providing server separately provided. Meanwhile although the service system of is illustrated as including only components required for explanation of the present invention some of the components may be omitted or other components may be added as necessary. Also some of the illustrated components may be integrated into a single module or a single component may consist of a plurality of modules. In addition although the SNS module may be provided for example as a separate module as illustrated in relation to the present invention the SNS module may be integrated with the control unit or the crawler module .

As described above the digital receiver may receive EPG data from service information SI contained in a digital broadcast signal received from the broadcast station and or from the second server . However EPG data received from the broadcast station or EPG data provided by the EPG information provider has low channel or service coverage on a per local area basis about less than 50 and therefore the digital receiver has a difficulty in providing the user with an EPG service faithful to an actual broadcast environment. In other words the single digital receiver cannot provide an accurate EPG service sufficient to meet a user demand due to low service coverage and insufficient metadata thereof even when acquiring EPG data as described above.

Accordingly as described above herein to complement a shortcoming that the broadcast station and or the second server are practically insufficient to meet a user demand for an EPG service the first server is devised to provide an EPG service by collecting EPG data of each digital receiver and storing and managing the collected data in a database.

In other words differently from a conventional digital receiver according to the present invention the first server may collect EPG data from a plurality of digital receivers within the same service list and or combine EPG data of the second server and may transmit the acquired EPG data to the digital receivers so as to provide an advanced EPG service containing the latest update information within a short time.

In the present invention when the aforementioned advanced EPG service is transmitted from the first server to the digital receiver as described above information to provide an SNS linked to content may also be transmitted. Here the information to provide an SNS linked to content for example includes identifier information as access information to provide an SNS linked to content according to the present invention. In addition to the identifier information the information may further include detailed information on the corresponding SNS and or other additional information. The identifier information includes for example log in information. In other words the first server generates SNS information associated with for example an EPG service to be provided to the digital receiver through the SNS module . The first server generates for example a data exchange space for an SNS linked to content and also generates various information on the data exchange space. Here the SNS may be for example a general broadly known SNS or an SNS provided by a manufacturer. In the case of the former for example the first server may generate a data exchange space for provision of an SNS via communication with a corresponding SNS server and then generate identifier information on the data exchange space although the first server may autonomously generate the data exchange space and the information. Alternatively the first server may take charge of only connection and transmission among all the above described SNS associated operations and generation of all information including the identifier information may be performed by the external SNS server .

Hereinafter the service system and the method of providing the EPG service in the digital receiver according to the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to . is a flowchart illustrating an example of a method of providing a service in a digital broadcast system according to the present invention.

To provide an EPG service according to the present invention the digital device performs a registration procedure by communicating with the first server . For example the digital receiver initially transmits device information thereof to the first server S and receives a setting value based on the transmitted device information i.e. a service list set ID from the first server S . Here the device information includes a device country receiver type and service list for example. The device country may be Korea KR Germany DE or England UK for example. The receiver type may mean terrestrial cable satellite and Internet Protocol TV IPTV for example. The service list may include at least one of a list of services or channels that can be accessed by the digital receiver through auto scan 3 ID and service name.

The 3 ID includes for example an original network identifier a transport stream identifier and a service identifier. The 3 ID may serve independently or along with the service name as a reference group or a super set that is used when the first server collects combines and processes service data received from each digital receiver. The first server configures a group with reference to the 3 ID and or the service name. An identifier to identify each group is a service list set ID. As such the first server may sort and group service data received from the digital receiver and thereafter acquire various latest service data. Of course in this case service data of the external EPG provider may also be collected and stored. Meanwhile although the group may be called a super set the group may include at least two super sets as subordinate groups when it is necessary to sort the group into the subordinate groups based on for example a service name in the group. For example the digital receiver may transmit a service list containing device information such as a device country of UK a receiver type of DVB T and 3 ID i.e. dvb 233a.2f.1 to the first server . Here 233a may mean an original network identifier 2f may mean a transport stream identifier and 1 may mean a service identifier.

In addition to the above described device information the digital receiver may further transmit for example at least one of device type information such as a model number or model name of a corresponding device device language information such as language provided by or used in the corresponding device and user ID information previously registered in the first server to the first server .

The first server determines whether or not the corresponding digital receiver is within a super set or group based on the device information transmitted from the digital receiver and transmits identification information of the corresponding super set or group i.e. a service list set ID to the digital receiver based on the determined result.

The service list set ID may function as communication information or identification information between the digital receiver and the first server . In other words after the digital receiver and the first server complete mutual recognition via the above described procedure the service list set ID is used in a substantial service data transmission reception procedure such as for example updating of EPG service data from each digital receiver to the first server or reception of EPG service data from the first server .

Herein the service list set ID is a value that is used to sort a bundle of service lists i.e. super sets or groups in the case in which the first server manages EPG data on a per service list basis. In a general case as described above the super sets or groups may be configured by two kinds of device information i.e. a device country and a receiver type. For example in the case of Europe if 3 ID is equally used in one country on a per receiver type basis the service lists may be regarded as the same service and may be within the same super set or group.

Thereafter each digital receiver transmits and or updates the service list containing EPG service data to the first server S . Here the service list may include the 3 ID and or the service list set ID received from the first server except for the EPG service data. Additionally the service list may include SI data received from the broadcast station or various information provided by each receiver and may transmit the SI data and information separately or as be included in the EPG service data. For example the service list may further include service type information on each content SD HD 3D and language information on the corresponding content e.g. Korean English Spanish and Germany under the assumption that the information are transmitted along with the EPG service data. The service list may further include information on a program title start time end time duration rating and genre for example for transmission and reception of the information. In addition the service list may include language information associated with a corresponding program video resolution AV type and the presence of captioning.

The EPG service data is read from the service information included in the digital broadcast signal transmitted from the digital receiver to the broadcast station . As described above the service information containing the EPG service data includes for example an SDT and service event i.e. a program EIT in the case of DVB terrestrial. In other words the digital receiver extracts data for configuring an EPG service by parsing an SDT and an EIT from the digital broadcast signal and stores the extracted data in a storage unit. Then the digital receiver transmits the service list which includes at least one of the EPG service data stored as described above and the 3 ID and the service list set identifier as described above to the first server .

The first server may receive and process the EPG service data provided from each digital receiver. Upon processing the EPG service data of the external EPG provider may be used. However if collision between the respective EPG service data occurs upon processing the SI information may have a priority.

Hereinafter a processing procedure of the EPG service data in the first server will be described in detail.

If the device information of each digital device is received in Operation S as described above the control unit transmits the received device information to the crawler module . The crawler module configures super sets having the same service list based on the device information of each digital device and returns an identifier of the configured super sets i.e. a service list set ID to the control unit . Alternatively the control unit may determine the super list set ID based on the device information.

The control unit returns the service list set identifier returned from the crawler module to the corresponding digital receiver.

If the control unit receives the EPG service data from each digital receiver after the service list set identifier has been returned to the digital receiver the control unit transmits the EPG service data to the crawler module S .

The crawler module transmits the input EPG service data of each digital receiver to the processor S .

In this case the crawler module may analyze for example an updated parameter from the EPG service data of each digital receiver.

Also the crawler module may process the analyzed result on a per service list set ID basis and transmit the analyzed result to the processor along with the read service list set ID.

In this case although each digital receiver may transmit the EPG service data to the first server at the same time alternatively each digital device may transmit the EPG service data at different times.

As a result of analyzing the EPG service data received from a particular digital receiver for example the crawler module may not transmit the analyzed result to the processor and remove the analyzed result if it is determined that the EPG service data has the same parameter as previously updated service data from another digital receiver or has a version lower than the service data for example.

The crawler module may transmit the EPG service data to the processor whenever the EPG service data is received from each digital receiver. However in consideration of overload of the processor a sufficient level of updated parameters may be accumulated or may periodically be transmitted to the processor which may reduce overall load of the server. The crawler module may transmit a control signal to adjust a transmission period of the digital receiver that has transmitted the corresponding EPG service data if the version of the received EPG service data is equal to or lower than the version of the previously updated EPG service data.

The processor receives the EPG service data of each digital receiver transmitted from the crawler module and stores the received EPG service data in the database .

Here the processor receives the EPG service data from the external EPG provider periodically or non periodically.

The processor sorts the EPG service data received from the crawler module and the external EPG provider based on for example the previously configured super sets i.e. the service list set ID and processes and stores the sorted EPG service data in the database in a unit of the aforementioned super set S .

For example translation and merge may be used for the processing procedure. The service list set ID and basic information required for channel change per broadcast standard may be added for later EPG service data search.

The control unit or the SNS module under control of the control unit may autonomously collect generate information for provision of an SNS linked to content and information on a data exchange space. Also the control unit or the SNS module under control of the control unit may store the information for provision of an SNS and the information on the data exchange space in the first or second database or in a separate database through at least one of the control unit the crawler module and the processor . Meanwhile the control unit or the SNS module under control of the control unit may request generation or provision of the information for provision of an SNS linked to content or the information on the data exchange space via communication with the SNS server . In this case the control unit or the SNS module may generate information required to access a particular server i.e. identifier information based on information previously received from the corresponding server and transmit the generated information to the digital receiver .

Thereafter the information for provision of an SNS linked to content may be provided as follows in response to an EPG service provision request from each digital receiver.

If an EPG service provision request is received from the user the digital receiver transmits a search parameter as well as the previously received service list set ID to the first server to request provision of an EPG service S .

In this case the search parameter may include for example query information start index information maximum result information category information and sort information in addition to the aforementioned device information. In particular an EPG may be set based on the category information to request provision of an EPG service according to the present invention. However if the category is set to all for example information on a CP tap for example YouTube tap as well as a real time tap may be received. In the case of the CP tap only Uniform Resource Locator URL information may be provided.

The control unit checks the request of the digital receiver and determines whether or not the corresponding request is a request for transmission of the updated EPG service data or the request for provision of an EPG service as described in Operation S.

If the determined result shows that the corresponding input is the request for provision of an EPG service the control unit transmits a search request including the search parameter to the search module S .

The search module analyzes the search parameter included in the search request from the control unit .

The search module transmits the analyzed result of the search parameter to the search engine and the search engine searches the databases and based on the transmitted search parameter S .

The search engine receives the searched result from the respective databases and and transmits the received result to the search module .

The search module analyzes the search result received from the search engine configures the analyzed result in a response format corresponding to the request generated in Operation S and returns the response to the control unit . In this case the returned response of the search module may be xml format for example.

The control unit transmits the EPG service data returned from the search module to the corresponding digital receiver S . Here the returned EPG service data includes for example the above described information on an SNS linked to content according to the present invention.

The corresponding digital receiver parses the EPG service data received from the first server in response to the request for provision of an EPG service and configures an EPG from the parsed result to provide the EPG to the user S . In this case the parsed EPG service data may be stored in the storage unit. The digital receiver may filter data that cannot be processed or provided by the corresponding digital receiver among the received EPG service data and provide the filtered data on a screen.

In the above described service system of according to the present invention an SNS may use or may not use the crawler module.

In the present invention an open SNS refers to the case in which a server with or without the crawler module configures and provides at least one SNS linked to any content whereby a user of a digital receiver uses the SNS.

The open SNS allows the server to automatically open an SNS data exchange space via recognition of a popular broadcast program using the above described crawler module of . For example according to the present invention the server may automatically issue a temporary SNS ID with respect to a broadcast program that exhibits a high real time viewing rate. This allows simultaneous chat of users of several SNSs that use an open API such as Facebook Twitter etc. Also according to the present invention all digital receivers may display an SNS ID i.e. an ID with respect to a program as well as viewing rate information and users who registered as followers or friends of the corresponding SNS ID are permitted to participate in a chat or to access chat content.

On the other hand in the case of the open SNS without the crawler module according to the present invention a management server on a per country or local area basis may preset opening of an SNS chat room with respect to a broadcast program that has a possibility of becoming an issue. To this end according to the present invention if the server issues a temporary SNS ID with respect to a preset broadcast program and displays the SNS ID as well as a channel browser and a service guide for example to assist all digital receivers in recognizing opening of a chat room users who registered as followers or friends of the corresponding SNS ID may participate in a chat and access chat content.

For example when the server recognizes a popular broadcast program and automatically opens a data exchange space the server automatically issues a temporary SNS ID with respect to the broadcast program having a high real time viewing rate. In this case a plurality of users of an open SNS such as Facebook Twitter M2 day etc. may perform data exchange i.e. chat via the temporary SNS ID. Meanwhile in relation to the viewing rate the server may issue a temporary SNS ID with respect to a program that acquires a high viewing rate every hour and may omit the SNS ID upon ending of the corresponding program. The temporarily issued SNS ID may be configured into for example LG smartSNSkbs spaymyungwal lge.com. According to a UI access scenario of the present invention for example the access to a viewing screen or a channel browser screen of a smart TV that is manufactured by the same manufacturer as the server and to an SNS application of a digital receiver is possible. Also the present invention may control TVs or smart phones of different manufacturers to participate in an SNS based on a particular search word e.g. LG smart SNS in linkage with an SNS server. Thereby the present invention allows all users with or without digital receivers of a particular manufacturer to conveniently use an SNS which results in enhanced SNS service quality and enables convenient use of an SNS even via mobile appliances.

On the other hand in the present invention a closed SNS refers to the case in which a user who wishes to use an SNS has to request linkage of an SNS to a server that provides content. If a user who wishes to open an SNS data exchange space with respect to a particular broadcast program requests opening of the SNS data exchange space via for example an application of the digital receiver the server may open the corresponding SNS data exchange space using service guide information transmitted from the digital receiver and an SNS ID as necessary the data exchange space may be opened via communication between the server and the digital receiver . Then the server may automatically send invitations to SNS followers or friends of the user who requests opening of the data exchange space i.e. to digital receivers and or mobile appliances of the SNS followers or friends thereby allowing the followers or friends who accept invitation to participate in a chat and access chat content.

The former refers to the case in which the user executes an SNS application during viewing of a live broadcast or requests live broadcast viewing during execution of an SNS application. A first area displays a logo with respect to a live broadcast e.g. CNN.com and a phrase e.g. Live with Facebook indicating that an SNS is being executed. A second area provides a live broadcast. A third area provides a thumbnail image or a channel browser. A fourth area provides an SNS.

In this case if the live broadcast and the SNS are individually executed on the screen of the digital receiver they have no need to be linked with each other in terms of content. Alternatively even if the live broadcast and the SNS are linked with each other as described above the user needs to execute an application associated with the SNS and thereafter perform a login procedure. Therefore up to now there are problems in that watching a live broadcast is impossible and in that great time and effort are required to select one of a plurality of data exchange spaces associated with content even after execution of an SNS.

On the other hand in the case of the latter the server according to the present invention previously opens an SNS linked to content and provides a temporary SNS ID to contribute to access convenience. This allows the user to directly participate in an SNS even while watching a live broadcast despite having the same screen configuration as in the former case thereby contributing to user convenience owing to reduced time and effort.

In this regard the UI as illustrated in according to the present invention may contain a great amount of information. For example although not illustrated if the user selects the corresponding UI the digital receiver may provide a UI to inquire as to whether or not the user selects use of an SNS provided by the server and provide the SNS based on user selection. In the case of providing the SNS based on user selection for example if there are present a plurality of SNSs or a plurality of data exchange spaces is opened in a particular SNS this information may be given in a sub menu form such that any SNS or data exchange space may be output based on user selection. Of course when the SNS or data exchange space is provided automatically or based on user selection as illustrated in different screen configurations may be provided.

In the case in which the server provides a service of the server may issue an SNS ID for three high rank broadcast programs in relation to the real time viewing rate and give a notification the digital receiver. Then if the user selects the notification using a general remote controller or a magic remote controller the user is automatically registered as a friend or follower of the corresponding program SNS ID and is permitted to participate in a chat. However in this case it may be necessary for the user to join an SNS and previously register an ID and a password in the digital receiver. Alternatively it may be necessary that an associated SNS application has previously been downloaded in the digital receiver. If the digital receiver does not have the SNS application the server may provide the corresponding application to download and install the application in the digital receiver. According to the present invention in the case of providing the SNS linked to content as illustrated in a semitransparent chat screen may be displayed on an area of a live broadcast screen to induce more active participation of many and unspecified persons in a popular program and to allow the user to upload his her opinion. Also a semitransparent chat window may be provided in an area so as not to disrupt viewing of a live channel.

In the present invention if a plurality of SNSs linked to content is present or a plurality of data exchange spaces is opened in a particular SNS this information may be displayed. Accordingly this assists the user in conveniently using an SNS linked to content or a data exchange space even without change of content or requiring an operation for provision of an SNS if the user does not like and wishes to change any SNS or data exchange space that is being executed. Moreover it is possible to provide the user who enjoys an SNS linked on content with information on an SNS linked to other content. For example if the user selects the SNS linked to other content it is possible to allow the user to use the SNS linked to other content without change of content i.e. while watching current content and to change the current content simultaneously with selection of the SNS linked to other content.

Referring to a thumbnail image or a channel browser may be provided in an area of a service guide and information on the viewing rate or information indicating that an SNS linked to a channel or broadcasting content of the corresponding channel is opened as well as information for convenient access to the SNS e.g. a message such as Live in SNS or an SNS ID may be provided in or at a lower end of a channel browser screen. Meanwhile a program list may be provided in another area of the service guide and detailed information on a channel or program selected by the channel browser or the program list may be provided in the other area of the service guide. The viewing rate information and or SNS access information may be provided over the program list and or detailed program information as in the above described channel browser. Accordingly if the user selects for example content or access information on an SNS linked to the content from the service guide as illustrated in the content and the SNS linked to the corresponding content may be provided simultaneously.

As illustrated in the digital receiver may provide a first area with a live broadcast a second area with a premium service list a third area with an application provided by a manufacturer a fourth area with Uls for various functions.

For example it is assumed that the user of the digital receiver selects an SNS via a menu while watching a live broadcast. In this case as described above in addition to providing the live broadcast with access information on the SNS linked to the live broadcast an access method for an SNS may be provided when the user executes an SNS application as illustrated in .

Accordingly as illustrated in an SNS screen may provide a live broadcast a UI or a folder e.g. named as LG live in SNS related to an SNS or a data exchange space provided by the digital receiver or the server.

If the UI or the folder of is selected for example a list of data exchange spaces that are available in the digital receiver or provided by the server or detailed information may be provided as illustrated in .

For example the access scenario of may be more readily available when using an external input or a PVR service.

As described above the method of providing a service in the digital receiver according to the present invention includes selecting content including an identifier with respect to an SNS or a data exchange space that is opened in linkage with content from a service guide and outputting the selected content and the SNS or the data exchange space linked to the content in respective areas of a screen. The SNS linked to the content includes a data exchange space configured to allow one or more SNS users to simultaneously access the data exchange space using an open API from the server. The SNS may further include a SNS identifier having a format as access information for the corresponding data exchange space.

The above described method may further include at least one of requesting opening of an SNS data exchange space linked to a particular program determining whether or not a request for content change or channel switching is input and determining whether or not an SNS linked to changed content or a switched channel is present if the determined result shows that the request for content change or channel switching is input. Meanwhile depending on the presence of the SNS linked to the changed content or the switched channel the method may further include inquiring whether or not to terminate an existing SNS or providing a new SNS after automatically terminating the existing SNS. The SNS may be executed via a corresponding SNS application previously stored in the digital receiver.

The SNS identifier may be allotted from at least one of an associated SNS server and a server to which the digital receiver belongs. The format of the SNS identifier may be configured to provide existing SNSs with each data exchange space linked to the output content regardless of a service type and the SNS may be at least one of an open SNS and a closed SNS. The SNS identifier may be exclusive to the corresponding digital receiver regardless of channel content and SNS types and the provided SNS may also provide information on the viewing rate of corresponding content. The method may further include receiving a digital signal including content and signaling information on the content. The linked SNS may be determined based on at least one of a user who uses the same content an open chat with respect to common interest content a closed chat with respect to personal interest content genre sex ages content viewing rate rating time channel broadcast station manufacturer friend and series.

In another example the method of providing a service in the digital receiver according to the present invention may include executing an SNS outputting based on a reference a list of at least one service item linked to at least one content among the executed SNS and outputting a service window for the service item selected from the output list and content linked to the service item in respective areas.

According to the present invention as described above a variety of SNS scenarios may be provided via a digital system and a service system for the same. For example even if a user is not a member of an SNS and or even if the user does not execute and or log into an SNS application provided in the digital receiver the user is permitted to use the SNS while executing a broadcast program a game or another application. The digital receiver may provide a UI to assist the user in more easily and conveniently using the SNS. The service system and the digital receiver may provide a further improved active SNS environment thereby achieving enhanced user convenience and product satisfaction to increase purchase desire.

The service system and the method of providing a service in the digital receiver according to the present invention are not limited to the configurations of the above described various embodiments and those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications and or substitutions are possible. For example those skilled in the art may selectively combine all or some of the respective embodiments of the present invention.

The service system and the method of providing a service in the digital receiver according to the present invention may be implemented as code that can be written on a processor readable recording medium and thus read by a processor provided in the service system and or the digital receiver. The processor readable recording medium may be any type of recording device in which data is stored in a processor readable manner. Examples of the processor readable recording medium include a ROM a RAM a CD ROM a magnetic tape a floppy disc an optical data storage device and a carrier wave e.g. data transmission over the Internet . Also the processor readable recording medium can be distributed over a plurality of computer systems connected to a network so that processor readable code is written thereto and executed therefrom in a decentralized manner.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

