---

title: System, method, and computer program product for generation of local content corpus
abstract: A method for generating a body of content relevant to a geographical space can comprise building a gazette containing a lexicon of at least people, places, and organizations. A system can process content obtain from a plurality of sources to bootstrap an initial set of entities for each of the places in the gazette. A local content corpus can be created utilizing the initial set of entities. This bootstrapping process may utilize geocodes and/or heuristics that are topological, people oriented, place oriented, etc. The bootstrapping may further comprise ascribing the content based on human curated documents known to be local to the place. Documents in the local content corpus are semantically related to each other with respect to the place.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563644&OS=09563644&RS=09563644
owner: Groupon, Inc.
number: 09563644
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
This is a conversion of and claims benefit of priority form U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 474 095 filed Apr. 11 2011 entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR AUTOMATED DISCOVERY CURATION AND EDITING OF ONLINE LOCAL CONTENT which is fully incorporated herein by reference. This application relates to a co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 444 678 filed Apr. 11 2012 entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR GENERATION FOR AUTOMATED DISCOVERY CURATION AND EDITING OF ONLINE LOCAL CONTENT which is also incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright or mask work protection. The copyright or mask work owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright or mask work rights whatsoever.

This disclosure relates generally to online search and social media. More particularly embodiments disclosed herein relate to a system method and computer program product for generating local content corpora.

Social media and Internet technologies have enabled any computer user local organizations and small business to easily publish content. Blogging Twitter and Facebook have become the main channels for user content publication. Local organizations libraries and local businesses have transitioned their communications from physical media newspapers physical bulletin boards fliers and Yellow Pages to informational websites and more recently social media outlets to attempt to connect with their audiences.

Although information publication has become relatively easy due to web publication technologies reaching geographically local users continues to be difficult due to the content discovery mechanism driven by Internet search engines.

A search engine indexes collects parses and stores data to facilitate fast access and relevant information retrieval. Search engines incorporate interdisciplinary concepts from linguistics cognitive psychology mathematics informatics physics and computer science.

Today leading search engine providers use a variety of algorithms to index and retrieve information based on user keyword search. To enable a general search service applicable to all web users these search engines index and rank content based on general mathematical properties including web page link analysis in order to determine the likely most relevant content based on key words provided by the user. The number of external links to a given web page affects the ranking of the web page within search results. Users are presented content in rank order based on the score determined by the search engine s indexing algorithms.

Unfortunately traditional Internet search must index an extremely large number of web pages and this limits the type of algorithms that can be applied. These algorithms tend to be extremely general and large amounts of content that might be relevant do not appear within given search results as they are not linked by other sites on the web. Due to the fact content that is highly geographical topical local content competes with the entire body of Internet content for rank positioning. In general the more local the web page the fewer external links the content is likely to have. For every position lower on the search rank a user is 10 less likely to click through a link. Content is effectively buried when ranked off the first page of search results.

For example if user searches for the terms Italian food search engines return the set of all ranked content on the Internet of Italian Food . Recently search engines have attempted to improve search relevancy by geo locating users via IP address and narrowing a user s search by adding the user s location context to their searches and providing more geographically targeted search results. This change enables local content to better compete against Internet wide content. However users still have to guess the best search terms when attempting to find local data and the data is presented as a long list of disconnected items. Consequently there is always room for innovations and improvements.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide a new system method and computer program product for creating one or more local content corpora each containing documents that are semantically related to each other with respect to a place geographical space or the like.

In some embodiments one or more server machines may be configured to implement a method comprising building a gazette containing a lexicon of at least people places and organizations bootstrapping an initial set of entities for each of the places in the gazette and creating a local content corpus for each of the places utilizing the initial set of entities.

In some embodiments there may be many ways to perform the bootstrapping. For example information obtained from a plurality of sources may be passed through a plurality of heuristics to look for mentions of names business places contexts etc. Some heuristic filters can be topological and some can be name oriented place oriented time oriented and so on. These heuristics can be adapted for whatever references the system is configured to search and process.

Some content from the sources may have geocodes. Thus some heuristics can be adapted to utilize geocodes to vote off terms found in the content from the sources.

The bootstrapping process may further comprise ascribing the content based on human curated documents that are known to be local to a particular place. This can tighten the fitting on the bootstrapped content.

Documents that have been placed in a local content corpus also referred to herein as a local corpus may not be ranked relative to the place or to each other. Instead they may be ranked in real time utilizing a weighting function. For example in response to a request about a place documents that have been placed in a local corpus for the place may be ranked based on local terms local entities in the documents. These local terms are deemed to be associated with that particular place relative to the entire body of text outside the place.

The request about the place may come from a browsing application or mobile app running on a client device connected to the one or more server machines. Software running on the one or more server machines may form a query to an indexing engine or search platform. In response to the query the system may dynamically rank the documents in the local content corpus with respect to search parameters in the query and relative to the place.

These and other aspects of the disclosure will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following description while indicating various embodiments of the disclosure and numerous specific details thereof is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements may be made within the scope of the disclosure without departing from the spirit thereof and the disclosure includes all such substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements.

The disclosure and various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the exemplary and therefore non limiting embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating the preferred embodiments are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Descriptions of known programming techniques computer software hardware operating platforms and protocols may be omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the disclosure in detail. Various substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements within the spirit and or scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure.

Software implementing embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in suitable computer executable instructions that may reside on a computer readable storage medium. Within this disclosure the term computer readable storage medium encompasses all types of data storage medium that can be read by a processor. Examples of computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to volatile and non volatile computer memories and storage devices such as random access memories read only memories hard drives data cartridges direct access storage device arrays magnetic tapes floppy diskettes flash memory drives optical data storage devices compact disc read only memories and other appropriate computer memories and data storage devices.

Before discussing embodiments of invention a hardware architecture where embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented is described with reference to . In network computing environment may comprise network . Network can represent a private network a public network or a virtual private network VPN . A company s intranet might be an example of a private network and the Internet might be an example of a public network. A VPN uses primarily public telecommunication infrastructure such as the Internet to provide remote users with a way to access an internal network of an organization or entity. Various types of networks are known to those skilled in the art and thus are not further describe Network can be bi directionally coupled to a variety of networked systems devices repositories etc.

In the simplified configuration shown in network comprises a plurality of computers and or machines A N. Computers A N may comprise at least a server machine and a client machine. Virtually any piece of hardware or electronic device capable of running client software and communicating with a server can be considered a client machine. As an example computer A may include a central processing unit CPU read only memory ROM random access memory RAM hard drive HD or non volatile memory and input output I O device s . An I O device may be a keyboard monitor printer electronic pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball touch pad etc. or the like. The hardware configuration of computer A can be representative to other devices and computers alike coupled to network e.g. desktop computers laptop computers personal digital assistants handheld computers cellular phones and any electronic devices capable of storing and processing information and network communication . Computer B may implement an embodiment of a system disclosed herein and may connect to database and computer A via network . In some embodiments database may be accessible by computer B locally. For example database and computer B may reside on a private network or a company s intranet. Database may store data used by the system in computing environment . In some embodiments database may reside on computer B. In some embodiments computer B may send information to computer A over network and computer A may operate to present the information to a user of computer A.

As one skilled in the art can appreciate the exemplary architecture shown and described herein with respect to is meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Further embodiments disclosed herein may comprise suitable software including computer executable instructions. As one skilled in the art can appreciate a computer program product implementing an embodiment disclosed herein may comprise one or more non transitory computer readable storage media storing computer instructions translatable by one or more processors in computing environment . Examples of computer readable media may include but are not limited to volatile and non volatile computer memories and storage devices such as ROM RAM HD direct access storage device arrays magnetic tapes floppy diskettes optical storage devices etc. In an illustrative embodiment some or all of the software components may reside on a single computer or on any combination of separate computers.

As discussed above using the IP geo locating methodology online local content can better compete against the entire body of content available on the Internet but users still have to guess the best search terms when attempting to find local data and the data is presented as a long list of disconnected items. Also due to the low resolution of IP geo locating current geographic search results tend to include only city level qualified content which makes neighborhood or address level search based on a user s current IP address impossible outside the realm of mobile devices.

As many users of the Internet can attest it is increasingly hard to find content that is relevant or of interest even using the most advanced search engines. One solution involves crowd sourcing in which a task or topic is posted on an online forum or social network and multiple users of that online forum or social network can contribute to the task or topic. One drawback of crowd sourcing is that the task or topic is open to an undefined public. There is little if any control by the online forum or social network as to the scope of the overall contributions by these users. Often there is not a validation mechanism in place to ensure any of the contributions is accurate and or even relevant.

Recognizing the intrinsic need for local content embodiments disclosed herein provide a system method and computer program product for generating local content corpora. To the extent there is a place or geographic space relevant to a set of content the system can find and examine it. The opposite can also be true to the extent there is content relevant to a place or geographic space the system can find and examine the content. Within this disclosure a place refers to a geographic space or geo point of interest. For example a place in embodiments disclosed herein can refer to a metropolitan area a city or a neighborhood.

Local content is important to how people interacting and shared economy. Today an average person may spend 90 minutes on their mobile devices per day consuming a huge quantity of information in terms of data size. However data can be extremely noisy. Finding content that is relevant to a locality can be a tremendously difficult problem due to the shear variety of web pages random links to unrelated content spam and broad social context in which real time social media is used.

Embodiments disclosed herein do not attempt to crawl the entire Web. Rather a goal is to crawl a local web around each place metropolitan area or other geographical space of interest. Each such a local web would include highly semantically connected media sources blogs and streams of local interest media mentions. Within this disclosure local content corpus refers to a body of content particularly relevant to a local web with respect to a place metropolitan area or any geographical space of interest.

Within this disclosure a place can be any named area where a user has a primary affiliation. For example for cities a named area can be a neighborhood whereas for small towns a named area can be a town or municipality itself. In order classify content relative to place in some embodiments the system can be built to enable near constant time classification of content. As will be further described below this approach can be based on a local entity weighting approach for content classification.

The system allows self edited content to be created from general content templates based on web crawling and machine learning algorithms. These content templates are based on likely interest areas and can be customized by the end user. In this context self refers to the system. Editing is the process of reviewing and then condensing correcting or arranging written material images sound video or film with the objective of preparing it for final presentation. As an editor the system uses its understanding of the audience to determine the best content for publication. The system approximates simulates and automates the editing process by discovering who publishes content locally what is locally interesting to the local audience then generating on an ongoing basis streams of content based on the learned place interest.

The system also finds the relationships amongst data based on learning and or finding common patterns of information in the content. The relationships amongst data enable content tapestries to be created which in turn enables a user to see content in its local context.

In some embodiments the system may leverage enabling technologies. One example may be keyword search implementing a search algorithm. In computer science a search algorithm broadly speaking is an algorithm for finding an item with specified properties among a collection of items. Another example may be geotagging. Geotagging is the process of adding geographical identification metadata to various media such as photographs video websites SMS messages or RSS feeds described below and is a form of geospatial metadata. This data usually consist of latitude and longitude coordinates though they can also include altitude bearing distance accuracy data and place names. Geotagging is commonly used for photographs giving geotagged photographs. The amount of geotagged data is growing due to the adoption of personal mobile devices.

In some embodiments the system may leverage known standards including Internet publication standards which have emerged to enable easy interchange of content between parties. One example is RSS most commonly expanded as Really Simple Syndication which is a family of web feed formats used to publish frequently updated works such as blog entries news headlines audio and video in a standardized format. An RSS document which can be called a feed web feed or channel includes full or summarized text plus metadata such as publishing dates and authorship. Web feeds benefit publishers by letting them syndicate content automatically. They benefit readers who want to subscribe to timely updates from favored websites or to aggregate feeds from many sites into one place. RSS feeds can be read using software called an RSS reader feed reader or aggregator which can be web based desktop based or mobile device based. A standardized XML file format allows the information to be published once and viewed by many different programs. The user subscribes to a feed by entering into the reader the feed s URI or by clicking a feed icon in a web browser that initiates the subscription process.

In some embodiments the system utilizes an indexing engine to build and index all the local content. Features of this indexing engine may include powerful full text search hit highlighting faceted search dynamic clustering database integration and rich document e.g. Word PDF etc. handling. Enabled by the indexing engine s distributed search and index replication functionality the system can be highly scalable and can support virtually unlimited content queries.

In one embodiment key word bootstrap may be configured to perform bootstrapping an initial set of terms for a place. Given any populated area there exists a set of well known geographic places. By using a geographic database also referred to herein as a geodatabase key word bootstrap can automatically create a set of keyword search terms.

A geodatabase is a database designed to store query and manipulate geographic information and spatial data of low dimensionality. Within a spatial database spatial data is treated as any other data type. Local entity weighting data can be stored and associated with geo point line or polygon data types and may have an associated spatial reference system. One primary advantage of spatial databases over file based data storage is that a geographic information system GIS can be built on the existing capabilities of relational database management systems RDBMS . This gives an otherwise standard database an ability to retrieve geospatial query terms and includes support for SQL and the ability to generate complex geospatial queries. Also a database s client server architecture supports multiple users simultaneously and lets them view edit and query the database without conflict.

A geodatabase record can use a geometry data type to represent the location of an object in the physical world and other standard database data types to store the object s associated attributes.

As an example geodatabase may contain state municipality macro area and neighborhood name data. Note however geography boundaries are not limited to any set of real state boundaries. Boundaries can include any affiliation that exists as a function of user location. These boundaries include school districts political municipal zoning etc. By leveraging these key word search terms based on key words based on boundaries and their name hierarchy and geo spatial queries based on boundary polygons an initial content data stream to be created for a given set of boundaries.

In one embodiment geodatabase may hold a set of all geo spatial polygons associated with places. This database also contains a place hierarchy. In one embodiment geographic places can be arranged in the place hierarchy where each level represents a geographic level. For example a U.S. address can be represented to reflect a geographic hierarchy for the purpose of efficient postal routing. More specifically suppose a U.S. address is as follows 

The address starts with the street which is the lowest level of a geographic hierarchy followed by the city then the state and then the country. Oriented in a parent to child order the address would read 

Local geographies decompose further into areas oriented around neighborhoods in most metropolitan areas. These local geographies are mainly a function of real estate boundaries and socio economic factors that partition populations within cities. As such this hierarchy encodes important social context that enable a reasonably targeted automated key word search to prime content acquisition. depicts local hierarchy and depicts an example of local hierarchy that captures a neighborhood located in Austin Tex.

This hierarchy further qualifies where Rosewood neighborhood resides by providing the macro area East Side as its parent. East Side refers to a section of Austin that is distinct from other sections of Austin.

In many cities this macro level decomposition reflects the compass directional North South East West etc. . However many cities may have districts that exist due to real estate development or area history.

The system can therefore be organized around places each representing a named area where a user has a primary affiliation. For cities this can be the neighborhood and for small towns this can be the town or municipality itself. Place affiliation can be a key to enabling effective content acquisition. When a user provides the system with their address the user is implicitly providing a rich context for the system to base automated content acquisition. In some embodiments these places groups can be defined by local boundaries below the city level. The system can be designed to operate best in the most specific local context.

Currently there is not a 100 reliable source for local boundaries i.e. boundaries below the city level . In order to drive content acquisition efficacy the system can be connected with local information sources to compile local boundary information for areas where the system is deployed.

Geodatabase represents one example type of a map of the world. There can be various types of maps of the world. For example there can be a map of the world that map out all the highway systems of the world all the air traffic patterns of the world all the businesses in the world all the people in the world etc. These maps can be obtained from various sources. For example OpenStreetMap is a collaborative project to create a free editable street map of the world.

Information contained in such a map of the world is often context free and not tied to any vendor. However it can have all the names of the towns and streets and the geo information all the vectors that make up all the towns all the streets and all the polygons. Based on the topology hierarchy of this map of the world an initial heuristical filter can be built for a context free way of finding place names. For example Tarrytown exists not only in Austin Tex. but also in New York. In Austin Tarrytown is a neighborhood located west of downtown Austin. In New York Tarrytown is a village in the town of Greenburgh located on the eastern bank of the Hudson River. A heuristical filter can be built to traverse a hierarchy and find Tarrytown Austin Tex. or Tarrytown Greenburgh N.Y. if Tarrytown is mentioned in a piece of content.

Likewise various heuristical filters can be built for a context free way of finding people organizations highway systems etc. In this way the system is provided with the ability to topologically from a language point of view performs an initial context free pass of finding place names. As another a service such as Factual may provide business information that include the names of all or potentially all the businesses in the world when do they open where are they on the map etc. Those skilled in the art will appreciate other types of information many of which may be freely available on the Internet and or provided by various agencies and organizations can also be included. These different types of information can be inter related or otherwise associated and persisted in a gazette of information.

The gazette can be implemented in a database of a set of indices. This database can be huge perhaps on the order of at least one terabyte or more. When every country is loaded it may be at least two terabyte large. For example the highway system in the state of Texas along has 56 million entries.

As illustrated in after a gazette is built step the gazette can then be used in a bootstrap process to build these hierarchies topological heuristics with local entities step and start to qualify at least initially the information from these various sources into a local content corpus step . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that method is meant to be a non limiting example and that additional steps may be included in method .

As illustrated in gazette can be created by correlating geo points found in map s of the world with named entities found in content s of the world . In one embodiment these may be implemented as databases. As an example database may contain information from various sources defining at least places people and organizations. Database may contain content crawled from various sources. The sources for database may be the same or different from the sources for database . In one embodiment each place person and organization in database is associated with a global identification GUID and each piece of content in database is associated with a content ID. Terms extracted from a piece of content may be associated with a particular content ID. Database may contain a set of indices referencing entries from databases .

In this way a spot on the globe as defined by longitude and latitude can be represented by a pin. Within this disclosure a pin represents a geographic feature which can be either a point on a map or a polygon or a point in radius to a predefined resolution. An example of a point on the map may be a street corner at the intersection of Lamar Street and 25Street Austin Tex. Within this disclosure polygon refers to an area having dimensions. An example of a polygon may be Austin Tex.

An initial local corpus for each such place pin can be created by bootstrapping local entities utilizing the gazette. An example process can comprise for each place of interest determining a list of information sources local to the place crawling those information sources to obtain raw content processing the raw content to obtain a first pass of named entities local to the place and storing those local entities in a database. Non limiting examples of places may include all major metropolitan areas cities or cluster of cities. Non limiting examples of local information sources may include online local newspapers blogs city government websites etc. RSS feeds may be a non limiting example of raw content. Non limiting examples of the first pass named entities may include people place and organization entities.

In one embodiment the raw content or crawled information can be passed through a plurality of filters produced out of the gazette to look for mentions of names business places contexts etc. Some heuristic filters can be topological and some can be name oriented place oriented time oriented and so on. These heuristics can be adapted for whatever references the system is configured to search and process.

As a specific example the gazette can provide the system with the knowledge of what Austin Tex. is allowing the system to orient any reference to Austin Tex. topologically. For example an article on an online magazine may mention Austin Tex. July 2010. Using a heuristic filter from the gazette the system can narrow the focus to a particular part of the gazette which as discussed above can be a huge database on the order of at least one terabyte that is associated with Austin Tex. . As the system continues to find other mentions references utterances or other target entities in the content heuristics associated with those mentions may further narrow the focus. This can provide a short cut in the computation of determining how relevant that article is with respect to Austin Tex. .

As another example suppose Tarrytown is found in a piece of content the system may find all entries in the gazette that pertain to Tarrytown including Tarrytown N.Y. Tarrytown Austin Tex. Tarrytown Calif. etc. Suppose MoPac is found in the same piece of content the system may narrow the focus to Tarrytown Austin Tex. since Tarrytown in Austin Tex. is most often defined as the area bounded by Enfield Road in the South 35th Street in the North MoPac Expressway in the East and Lake Austin in the West indicating a high likelihood that this piece of content is related to Tarrytown Austin Tex. . This computation essentially place classification continues until all mentions or references in the piece of content have been processed to identify how likely this piece of content is local to Tarrytown Austin Tex. .

Some raw content or crawled information may have geocodes. This is in part due to the increased presence of mobile devices such as smartphones in the online space and the ubiquity of tags on content. Term frequencies in particular localities can also be used to adjust the notion of place quality. A geocode provides geospatial coordinate latitude longitude altitude at a specific moment in time. Thus some heuristics can be adapted to utilize geocodes to vote off terms found in the contents from the sources. For example a blogger in City A may blog about a restaurant or food scene in City B. The content from this blogger may have a geocode for City A but the content would be local to City B or even a particular neighborhood of City B. In this case the geocode of this blogger s content may not be useful. However if the preponderance of content weights a term a particular way it can act as a collaborative vote on what is local factoring in a variety of statistical measures including for example the Bayesian probability analysis.

In one embodiment one or more curators may review qualified contents from steps and and ascribe the localness thereof. This can tighten the fitting on the data to remove false positives and provide a tighter fit.

In one embodiment the system can be tested to ensure each local content corpus contains real local content. To test the system a subset of content known to be relevant to a particular place may first be curated by local people. The subset of content may be passed through the heuristic filters described above to see how the system performs and how close the match is between a human curated piece of content and another piece of content . This process leverages human experience of what constitutes local . As will be described below the system also provides a mechanism by which local people can vote on what is local. Such votes may end up affecting what constitutes local . This bootstrapping produces a local content corpus. However so far the content in the local corpus has not yet been ranked just separate contents from the sources between what would be considered as local and not.

Note what is local is relative. The heuristics define how local local is. Thus in one embodiment the system may define local then run content through the filters and fit the content to what is defined as local . For example the system may define local means Austin Tex. run the content through the filters and fit the content to find what is local to Austin Tex. In one embodiment the system may comprise heuristics through which content can be passed through. The system may then determine a local to fit the content. For example the system may process a set of documents and determine that local with respect to the set of documents means Austin or Texas .

In this way for every place in the world the system can take a document and end up with two outputs one is a set of points in polygons that are either directly or indirectly mentioned in the document and also a set of weightings about the terms from the document.

Note that the same document can be relevant to more than one local content corpus the bootstrap process is not a singular process and depending upon the desired resolution there can be overlapping content between local content corpora.

Notice also the system is not looking at any particular place but all of the places in the gazette including Tarrytown in NY TX CA etc. Each Tarrytown is a spot on the map of the world. The system finds every article ever mentioned Tarrytown and may climb up and down the hierarchy topology . Depending upon a configurable resolution setting the system can be implemented to go down to neighborhood city county etc. or as far down as one desires. One way to adjust the resolution is by adjusting the weights associated with the named entities. In one embodiment content can only resolve down to U.S. Anything less is eliminated as it is not local to any interested target. The desired level of resolution may depend on city density. For example San Francisco has high city density and therefore may need to resolve down to the neighborhood level in order to have locality sensitivity. Again this can be configurable and may vary from implementation to implementation.

In one embodiment by applying the following algorithm an initial set of bootstrap content can be generated. The content is referred to as bootstrap as it requires no a priori knowledge of an area other than local geographic hierarchy.

With this initial set of local search terms a set of keyword searches can be generated automatically for any place. These initial terms enable a bootstrap content stream to be created for any given place where the system is deployed.

Key word searches based on this algorithm enable an initial set of priming content or corpus to be created for the system. This priming content establishes the initial body of content that the system will use to begin to baseline content relevancy. The system leverages Bayesian probability that local content for a place will have local entities with a higher relative probability.

To generate a local corpus the system first generates local content streams from each of the top level content data sources and aggregators using the bootstrap keyword search terms. Place based keyword search and geo spatial search based on local boundaries allow the system to build up for each place in the system a body of content relative to the place place corpus .

This place corpus provides the system with an importance of local terms local entities associated with a given place relative to the entire body outside a given local area. This importance can be determined using TFIDF term frequency inverse document frequency weighting. The TFIDF weight is a statistical measure used to evaluate how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus and can be used in information retrieval and text mining. The importance increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in the document but is offset by the frequency of the word in the corpus. One example of TFIDF weighting algorithm is as follows 

By using TFIDF weighting two documents can be considered to be semantically related through their geography dimension if in one embodiment the people places and organizations tagged by a semantic tagger occur more frequently in the content for a given place.

The inverse document frequency is a measure of whether the term is common or rare across all documents. It is obtained by dividing the total number of documents by the number of documents containing the term and then taking the logarithm of that quotient.

Mathematically the base of the log function does not matter and constitutes a constant multiplicative factor towards the overall result. Then the tf idf is calculated as tf idf t d D tf t d idf t D . In one embodiment people places and organizations can be used as terms plugged into the above functions as t.

In order to classify content relative to place the system enables near constant time o automated classification of content. This approach is based on a local entity weighting model approach for content classification. In system this is implemented in entity analyzer .

Document classification categorization is a general problem in information science. The task is to assign an electronic document to one or more categories based on its contents. Document classification tasks can be divided into two sorts supervised document classification where some external mechanism such as human feedback provides information on the correct classification for documents and unsupervised document classification where the classification must be done entirely without reference to external information. There is also a semi supervised document classification where parts of the documents are labeled by the external mechanism. In one embodiment the system is supervised and semi supervised where content is tagged by both internal content voting external input from users and existing reference tagged corpus for named entity recognition.

Various local entity weighting models may be used. Suitable examples can be found in the above referenced co pending U.S. Patent Application entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR AUTOMATED DISCOVERY CURATION AND EDITING OF ONLINE LOCAL CONTENT which is incorporated herein by reference.

Now that the system has local content corpora each representing a body of content that is local to a place the system uses an indexing engine to build and index all the local content. One example indexing engine is Elastic Search a distributed open source search server that supports the near real time search of Apache Lucene. Elastic Search can index data using JavaScript Object Notation JSON over HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP .

JSON is a text format that is completely language independent but uses conventions that are familiar to programmers of the C family of languages including C C C Java JavaScript Perl Python and many others. Provide an index name a type and an identifier of a typed JSON document to Elastic Search and it will automatically perform indexing using a unique identifier at the type level and return the actual JSON document used to index the specific data. Each index in index database can have its own settings which can override the master settings. One index can be configured with a particular memory storage and have multiple 1 . . . n shards with 1 replica each and another index can have a file based storage with 1 shard and multiple replicas. All the index level settings can be controlled when creating an index using a JSON format.

Other suitable distributed search and index platforms may also be used for example Apache Solr which is an open source enterprise search platform from the Apache Lucene project. The system therefore can leverage features of Apache Lucene which include powerful full text search hit highlighting faceted search dynamic clustering database integration and rich document e.g. Word PDF handling. Both Elastic Search and Solr architectures enable wide scaling of the indexing system to support virtually unlimited content queries.

These indexing engines enable the system to implement a customized neighborhood content ranking algorithm that determines the relevancy of documents contained in the index relative to a geo place.

To reflect use bias to most local content the system may implement a rank boosting algorithm based on content geotagging. Only a small percentage e.g. 5 of content found on the Internet is hard tagged with an originating location encoded as latitude and longitude using the standard geo microformats. Due to the low occurrence of hard geotagging local boosting is a function of both local relevancy score by document classification and geotag data when available. This allows content to be soft geotagged by using the local entity weighting classifier when no geotag is available for the content.

The boosting algorithm can be integrated into the indexing engine by implementing a custom ranking query one example of which is as follows 

The bigger SP is the more locally relevant the story is likely to be. The ranking function must work with hard geotagged data when soft geotagged data is not present. This gives the soft geotagged data equal footing with the hard geocoding which is useful since all pages will have soft geotagged data while only a small percent will have hard geotagged data.

If there is no hard geotagged data let L 0.25 arbitrary . Otherwise use previously calculated value of L 2 1 

With a content index in place and an initial base line of local entity weights by place the system can enable targeted web crawling for additional local content. The system may process the acquired content as described above and fine tune each local content corpus. Index can be updated to include additional content with local relevancy with respect to each local content corpus. As will be described further below the system may also conduct supervised and or semi supervised content curation for each local content corpus and self edit content in the local content corpus.

To enable the ongoing content polling in one embodiment the system utilizes an open source crawler such as Nutch. The crawler can enable the system to crawl links from local content and keyword search and score newly discovered content through local entity weighting and other customized criteria as links are crawled. This creates a targeted optimized web crawler for every place in the system. This web crawler uses a place s local taste encoded in the place s entity weights to find content that place would likely find interesting.

As discussed above the crawler can also monitor content sources on an ongoing basis to determine if there are any updates which enables large volumes of websites to be watched on a frequent basis. Once the system finds a good local source of content for a place that local source will be continuously monitored for updates and those updates are placed into the local content index e.g. index stored in the indexing engine. The crawler s continuous monitoring allows a set of frequently updated content streams to be created from a set of low frequency infrequently published sources.

Once content is acquired and indexed product management or team of authorized users can selectively categorize content based on target content categories utilizing a voting application. These categorization votes can be stored and factored in a post processing process not shown . Curator s can vote on a current place s publication and the top of local content index for a given place.

As an example classifications may include neighborly content reflecting local flavor spam sports crime and other interest related categories. Curator s can add and remove categories based on editorial judgment. These classifications can be arbitrary and can be combined with one another through logical composition.

Votes can associate entity weights with a particular classification and update existing entity weights that are used to automatically classify new documents.

Further category classification votes can be augmented based on user clicks to update the weights of each of the categories. For example and also referring to if a user clicks through a categorized content item based on category and does not page bounce from that item this viewing content voting can ascribe a weighted acceptance of a content s categorization. This value is weighted due to the uncertainty in the information the viewing ascribes. Votes views and likes may be stored in database accessible by the indexing engine described above.

Over time as the system runs and more clicks and more votes are collected the categories and entity weight histories capture the place relative categorization. These categories are place relative due to the fact the entity weights vary from place to place and reflect a place s tendency to contain local entities. With these entity weights in place any content can be scored for place affinity for any place in the system.

Using with the local content index and automated content categorization based on local entity weighting an automated editing process can be created.

Content mixes can enable editing targets to reflect available content. This can be useful with respect to density in various places. For example urban centers often have a high amount of social content like Twitter and there are large numbers of places of interest which anchor content streams. By contrast suburban communities have sparser content streams driven by occasional posts from fixed content sources. An optimization goal for the automated editor is to drive regular updates to each content stream as available content allows.

In one embodiment an automated editing process pulls from the content index and applies a customized collection algorithm based on content mix type. The collection algorithm pulls from the index creating a rotation of content based on geographic and content categories. An example editing algorithm is provided below 

The editing algorithm climbs the place hierarchy to meet content targets. This allows the system to optimize for the most local relevant content available by each of the content categories. Other suitable editing algorithms may also be implemented.

The system s knowledge increases with each pass strengthening the system s ability to dynamically rank local content that is highly relevant to a particular place and or local favor. Each place added in the geodatabase may also increase the system s ability to further distinguish local entities.

As a specific example in causing request to be sent user may not need to proactively do anything other than opening an application. If user is using a mobile device this may be as simple as opening a mobile app. The mobile app knows the location through internal GPS and time. The mobile app may comprise client software of system the client software capable of forming a query to search index that essentially asks What is the most local place to eat or piece of news content at this time and place. An example input in JSON to the search index is as follows 

In response system returns at least one stream of most relevant news articles and places to go at that time. Stream may be presented to the user in various ways. As a specific example suppose the user is in the Bay Area opening an app implementing an embodiment disclosed herein may cause a client device running the app to display stream as a thermal image or media showing the most relevant white hot news articles and places to go in the Bay Area as illustrated in . Local content relevant to the Bay Area may also be presented using a pinned map with each pin representing a geographic feature which can be either a point on the map a street corner between Bay Street and Columbus Avenue in San Francisco Calif. or a polygon San Jose Calif. . Other ways to present local content relevant to a place may also be possible.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments thereof these embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. The description herein of illustrated embodiments of the invention including the description in the Abstract and Summary is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed herein and in particular the inclusion of any particular embodiment feature or function within the Abstract or Summary is not intended to limit the scope of the invention to such embodiment feature or function . Rather the description is intended to describe illustrative embodiments features and functions in order to provide a person of ordinary skill in the art context to understand the invention without limiting the invention to any particularly described embodiment feature or function including any such embodiment feature or function described in the Abstract or Summary. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes only various equivalent modifications are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize and appreciate. As indicated these modifications may be made to the invention in light of the foregoing description of illustrated embodiments of the invention and are to be included within the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus while the invention has been described herein with reference to particular embodiments thereof a latitude of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosures and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of embodiments of the invention will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or a specific embodiment or similar terminology means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment and may not necessarily be present in all embodiments. Thus respective appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment or in a specific embodiment or similar terminology in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of any particular embodiment may be combined in any suitable manner with one or more other embodiments. It is to be understood that other variations and modifications of the embodiments described and illustrated herein are possible in light of the teachings herein and are to be considered as part of the spirit and scope of the invention.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment may be able to be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatus systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. In other instances well known structures components systems materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments of the invention. While the invention may be illustrated by using a particular embodiment this is not and does not limit the invention to any particular embodiment and a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional embodiments are readily understandable and are a part of this invention.

Embodiments discussed herein can be implemented in a computer communicatively coupled to a network for example the Internet another computer or in a standalone computer. As is known to those skilled in the art a suitable computer can include a central processing unit CPU at least one read only memory ROM at least one random access memory RAM at least one hard drive HD and one or more input output I O device s . The I O devices can include a keyboard monitor printer electronic pointing device for example mouse trackball stylist touch pad etc. or the like.

ROM RAM and HD are computer memories for storing computer executable instructions executable by the CPU or capable of being complied or interpreted to be executable by the CPU. Suitable computer executable instructions may reside on a computer readable medium e.g. ROM RAM and or HD hardware circuitry or the like or any combination thereof. Within this disclosure the term computer readable medium or is not limited to ROM RAM and HD and can include any type of data storage medium that can be read by a processor. For example a computer readable medium may refer to a data cartridge a data backup magnetic tape a floppy diskette a flash memory drive an optical data storage drive a CD ROM ROM RAM HD or the like. The processes described herein may be implemented in suitable computer executable instructions that may reside on a computer readable medium for example a disk CD ROM a memory etc. . Alternatively the computer executable instructions may be stored as software code components on a direct access storage device array magnetic tape floppy diskette optical storage device or other appropriate computer readable medium or storage device.

Any suitable programming language can be used to implement the routines methods or programs of embodiments of the invention described herein including C C Java JavaScript HTML or any other programming or scripting code etc. Other software hardware network architectures may be used. For example the functions of the disclosed embodiments may be implemented on one computer or shared distributed among two or more computers in or across a network. Communications between computers implementing embodiments can be accomplished using any electronic optical radio frequency signals or other suitable methods and tools of communication in compliance with known network protocols.

Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. Any particular routine can execute on a single computer processing device or multiple computer processing devices a single computer processor or multiple computer processors. Data may be stored in a single storage medium or distributed through multiple storage mediums and may reside in a single database or multiple databases or other data storage techniques . Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different embodiments. In some embodiments to the extent multiple steps are shown as sequential in this specification some combination of such steps in alternative embodiments may be performed at the same time. The sequence of operations described herein can be interrupted suspended or otherwise controlled by another process such as an operating system kernel etc. The routines can operate in an operating system environment or as stand alone routines. Functions routines methods steps and operations described herein can be performed in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic may be stored in an information storage medium such as a computer readable medium as a plurality of instructions adapted to direct an information processing device to perform a set of steps disclosed in the various embodiments. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the invention.

It is also within the spirit and scope of the invention to implement in software programming or code an of the steps operations methods routines or portions thereof described herein where such software programming or code can be stored in a computer readable medium and can be operated on by a processor to permit a computer to perform any of the steps operations methods routines or portions thereof described herein. The invention may be implemented by using software programming or code in one or more general purpose digital computers by using application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays optical chemical biological quantum or nanoengineered systems components and mechanisms may be used. In general the functions of the invention can be achieved by any means as is known in the art. For example distributed or networked systems components and circuits can be used. In another example communication or transfer or otherwise moving from one place to another of data may be wired wireless or by any other means.

A computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. The computer readable medium can be by way of example only but not by limitation an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus system device propagation medium or computer memory. Such computer readable medium shall generally be machine readable and include software programming or code that can be human readable e.g. source code or machine readable e.g. object code . Examples of non transitory computer readable media can include random access memories read only memories hard drives data cartridges magnetic tapes floppy diskettes flash memory drives optical data storage devices compact disc read only memories and other appropriate computer memories and data storage devices. In an illustrative embodiment some or all of the software components may reside on a single server computer or on any combination of separate server computers. As one skilled in the art can appreciate a computer program product implementing an embodiment disclosed herein may comprise one or more non transitory computer readable media storing computer instructions translatable by one or more processors in a computing environment.

A processor includes any hardware system mechanism or component that processes data signals or other information. A processor can include a system with a general purpose central processing unit multiple processing units dedicated circuitry for achieving functionality or other systems. Processing need not be limited to a geographic location or have temporal limitations. For example a processor can perform its functions in real time offline in a batch mode etc. Portions of processing can be performed at different times and at different locations by different or the same processing systems.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application. Additionally any signal arrows in the drawings Figures should be considered only as exemplary and not limiting unless otherwise specifically noted.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process product article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process process article or apparatus.

Furthermore the term or as used herein is generally intended to mean and or unless otherwise indicated. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present . As used herein including the claims that follow a term preceded by a or an and the when antecedent basis is a or an includes both singular and plural of such term unless clearly indicated within the claim otherwise i.e. that the reference a or an clearly indicates only the singular or only the plural . Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The scope of the present disclosure should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

