---

title: Sentiment analysis of content items
abstract: Disclosed herein is technology for providing sentiment analysis of content items. The technology involves labeling one or more portions of a content item and having the content item analyzed for sentiment. A graphical user interface may accept inputs from a user that indicate a portion of the content item should be labeled and the use may provide an associated sentiment for the item, e.g., positive, negative, or neutral. When a user has labeled a portion of a content item and provided an associated sentiment, the label and the sentiment are stored in a data store and the content items in the data store may be re-analyzed the content item to reflect the user's labeling and the changes are displayed in near real-time in the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134215&OS=09134215&RS=09134215
owner: Jive Software, Inc.
number: 09134215
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121109
---
Many consumers express their opinions about products and services on the Internet. Indeed review sites such as Yelp.com are built on user reviews. Companies that pay attention to what their customers are saying about their products and services can adapt or change designs in the next product cycle or contact unsatisfied customers of existing products to ensure that their satisfaction is maintained.

Aside from product review sites many customers express their sentiment toward a product or service using means that aren t as quantifiable as a review site with numbered or graded ratings. For example a customer may post a comment on a company s support message board about a video game stating I love this game or it has great graphics but needs a better story. These posts often do not have an empirical rating system that may be used to gauge how strongly the customer feels. The customer may also express their feelings and opinions on a message board unaffiliated with the company or on social media sites such as Facebook or Twitter.

The technology described herein provides a near real time sentiment analysis of content. The content may be obtained from the Internet from an Intranet or from similar electronic methods of communicating. A given piece of content also known as a content item may come from a number of content sources. For example content items may include but are not limited to comments on a web forum or discussion thread blog posts twitter feeds or tweets email conversations survey answers and or status updates and subsequent comments on a social networking site.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system for providing near real time sentiment analysis. In some implementations the system includes a data store that includes multiple content items and multiple labels both system generated labels and labels provided by users of the system. The system may also include one or more processors that may be configured to execute computer program modules. The program modules may include but are not limited to a sentiment analysis module an interface module a content management module an author profiling module a weighting module a content item retrieval module and or other modules.

In some implementations there may be a content item retrieval module. The content retrieval module may be configured to read content from a content source and add the content to the data store.

In some implementations a sentiment analysis module may be configured to analyze the content items in the data store identify one or more portions of a given content item to be labeled with labels and assign a sentiment score to the labeled portions. In some versions an interface module may be configured to define a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface may be configured to display the content item that was labeled and may also be configured to receive an entry and or selection of inputs from a user that label a portion of the content item. The entry or selection of inputs in some versions may modify or delete an existing label or create a new label. The graphical user interface may also be configured to receive a sentiment from the user for the labeled portion.

In some implementations there may be a content management module. The content management module may be configured to responsive to the user providing the sentiment for the labeled portion update the data store to include the received label. The content management module may also be configured to instruct the sentiment analysis module to re analyze the content items in the data store and to instruct the interface module to update the graphical user interface.

In some versions there may also be a weighting module. The weighting module may be configured to assign a weight to the label provided by the user such that when the sentiment analysis module analyzes the content items the sentiment score for the user labeled content item is based in part on the weight.

The graphical user interface may provide various ways of presenting information about the content items and associated sentiments to a user. For example in some implementations the graphical user interface may be configured to display one or more charts to the user that show the respective sentiment scores of the content items over time e.g. over the past week month or year. In some versions the graphical user interface may be configured to display a graphic showing one or more labels where the size of the graphic for a label is based on how often the label is used or how strong the sentiment for that label is or on the sentiment score for that label.

In some implementations there may also be an author profiling module. The author profiling module may be configured to identify an author of a content item and create a profile of the author. The profile may include an author sentiment score and statistics on the author s activity e.g. a frequency of how often the author creates content e.g. writing posts or comments answering surveys or posting statuses on social networking sites. In some versions the graphical user interface may be configured to display the profile of the author.

In one aspect there may also be a method executed on a computer processor for providing near real time sentiment analysis. In some versions the method may involve retrieving a content item from a content source. The method may also involve labeling one or more portions of a content item with a system generated label. The labeled portions and the content item as a whole may be analyzed for sentiment. The labeled portions may be assigned a sentiment score and the content item may also be assigned a sentiment score. In some implementations a graphical user interface displays the content item and then a user specified label for a user selected portion of the content item and a user specified sentiment for the labeled portion are received via the graphical user interface. In some instances the content item is re analyzed to update the sentiment score for the labeled portion and the content item as a whole responsive to receiving the user specified label and user specified sentiment. In some cases the graphical user interface displays then the updated sentiment.

There may also be versions that include identifying an author of a content item and creating an author profile of the author. The author profile may include an author sentiment score and statistics on the activity of the author. Once the profile is created the graphical user interface may display the author profile.

In some implementations the method may also involve assigning a weight to a portion of a content item that is labeled with a system generated label. The method may also involve assigning a weight to a user selected portion of the content item that the user has labeled and to the content item itself. In some versions the sentiment scores for the portion labeled with the system generated label the user selected portion and the content item are based in part on the weights assigned to each.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the system and or method disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In some implementations system may include a server . Server may be configured to communicate via one or more electronic communication links with one or more client computing platforms and or content sources according to a client server architecture communicated over a network e.g. the Internet wide area network WAN local area network LAN or the like. The users may access system via client computing platforms and or content authors may use client platforms to interact with content sources .

Server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The one or more computer program modules may include one or more of a sentiment analysis module an interface module a content management module an author profiling module a weighting module a content item retrieval module and or other modules.

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors an electronic display a control interface and or other components. The one or more processors may be configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules may be configured to enable a user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with system and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platforms . For example the computer program modules may include a view module configured to receive view information from server e.g. generated by interface module and to present a graphical user interface to the user based on the received view information. By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computing platform a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

Server may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. Server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of server in is not intended to be limiting. Server may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to server . For example server may be implemented in the cloud by a plurality of computing platforms operating together as server .

Electronic storage or colloquially a data store may be implemented in a number of ways. In some implementations electronic storage is a relational database. A relational database may include a number of tables that each have one or more columns and one or more rows. Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with server and or removable storage that is removably connectable to server via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor information received from server information received from client computing platforms and or other information that enables server to function as described herein. Content items may be stored in any of data store implementations described above.

To obtain the content items the content item retrieval module may be configured to retrieve content items from a content source over a network e.g. over the Internet and load them into the data store . Depending on the content source the content items may be retrieved by one or more of performing HTTP GET POST requests by making a database query to the content source e.g. a SQL SELECT statement by requesting a Real Simple Syndication RSS feed by making a Web Services or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP request by Application Programming Interface API calls to the content source by web scraping or screen scraping and or other techniques. The content retrieval module may then parse the results of the request into content items using standard text parsing techniques and the content retrieval module may then store the content items in the data store .

Sentiment analysis module may be configured to analyze the content items once the content items are stored in the data store . The sentiment analysis module may also be configured to identify one or more portions of a content item that is to be labeled with a label from the labels stored in the data store . These labels may be predefined as part of the system or may have been provided by the user prior to or concurrent with the sentiment analysis module analyzing the content items. Labels that are predefined may be well known words or phrases that have established meanings within the language. Examples of labels that may be predefined are good bad fantastic terrible and other expressive words used to convey a positive feeling towards a product a negative feeling towards a product or a sentiment that falls between positive and negative. Customers may use slang terms though that are not part of the standard language identifiable by the system as conveying sentiment. To supplement the predefined labels the system also provides a way for a user to define and or modify labels so that new terms e.g. product specific words or phrases slang or jargon used by the consumers of a product are included in the sentiment analysis. Examples of labels that may be provided by the user are killer positive sentiment the bomb positive sentiment weaksauce negative sentiment and terribad negative sentiment .

In some implementations the sentiment analysis module may also be configured to assign a sentiment score to the labeled portions of a content item and in some versions the content item itself. The sentiment score may reflect how strongly the content item author feels based on the words or phrases found in the content item. For example in some implementations the range of sentiment scores may be 1.00 most negative sentiment to 1.00 most positive sentiment with sentiment in between being a floating point decimal. A labeled word such as terribad a slang amalgam of terrible and bad may have a sentiment score of 1.00. A labeled word such as meh a phrase that is often an expression of apathy indifference or boredom may have a sentiment score of 0.25 because it is not a strongly negative statement and instead is closer to a neutral response with negative undertones. Similarly decent may have a sentiment score of 0.5 indicating a generally favorable sentiment but not a maximally positive sentiment. In some versions the sentiment scores assigned to the labels can then be aggregated to generate an overall sentiment score for the content item. For example if a content item has the words terribad meh and decent in it the sentiment analysis module may give the content item an overall sentiment score of 0.75 e.g. 1.00 0.25 0.5 . The author of the content item may have a generally negative attitude about the product having used multiple negative words but the use of decent may indicate the maximally negative sentiment is not warranted.

In some implementations the sentiment of the labeled words or phrases may be imparted to specific features of the product or topics of the discussion. For example if the word graphics is found near terribad the sentiment analysis module may assign the maximally negative sentiment to just the graphics feature. Similarly if words such as plot or story are found near the word decent the sentiment analysis module may assign a generally positive sentiment to only the story feature. Some implementations use known sentiment analysis techniques or tools to achieve this e.g. sentiment analysis libraries provided by OpenNLP or LingPipe or algorithms developed by researchers Peter Turney or Bo Pang and or other techniques. The foregoing are merely examples of some implementations of a sentiment scoring methodology and other ranges e.g. 1 to 10 other grading schemes e.g. A to F or enumerated coding schemes e.g. 1 star to 5 stars and how overall sentiment for a content item may be calculated using labeled words and phrases may also be used. Other forms of scoring and or aggregation to determine a content item level score from scores of portions of the content item s content are contemplated

Interface module may be configured to define a graphical user interface which may be configured to display content items stored in the data store and their associated sentiment scores. The users may interact with the graphical user interface via applications being executed on client computing platforms .

When interacting with the graphical user interface provided by the interface module a user may provide and the graphical user interface receives an entry and or a selection of inputs to indicate labeling of a portion of the content item and a sentiment for the labeled portion. For example the word horribad an amalgam of horrible and bad and a variation of terribad may appear in a content item but may not currently be in the data store as a label. The user knows that horribad is a negative term and is able to select or highlight the word in the graphical user interface e.g. through keyboard input mouse input touchscreen input and or voice commands or hand gestures to designate horribad as a label that should be analyzed for sentiment and strength of the sentiment. Once the word or phrase is highlighted and designated as a label the user may be prompted to provide a sentiment for the newly labeled word or phrase. The user may indicate and the graphical user interface receives that horribad is a negative phrase also through keyboard input mouse input touchscreen input and or voice commands or hand gestures. While in some implementations the user simply indicates a positive negative or neutral sentiment for a label and the sentiment score for the label is determined during the sentiment analysis by the sentiment analysis module in some versions the user may also provide a sentiment score to indicate how strongly positive negative or neutral the label is. The user s highlighting and providing of sentiment is expressly not limited to new phrases the entry and or selection of inputs that label a portion of the content item for sentiment may include modifying or deleting an existing label. For example whereas bad traditionally indicates a negative sentiment in some communities bad may have a positive sentiment. In these cases a user may view a content item in the graphical user interface determine that bad in the context of the content item is in fact expressing a positive sentiment and then alter the sentiment assigned to bad from negative to positive. The user may also choose to delete known labels because that word or phrase may just not be a part of the consumer community s vernacular.

In some implementations the graphical user interface defined by the interface module is further configured to display one or more charts that show statistics related to the sentiment of the community. For example in some implementations there is a chart that shows the sentiment of the community over time e.g. that shows how sentiment has trended positively or negatively over the past year. This allows a user to see if business actions have impacted the community e.g. a new product release may cause an increase in positive sentiment if the release went well. If the release went poorly the sentiment may change from positive or neutral before the release and then dip negatively after the release as customers complained about the new product. Other informational graphics may also be presented via the graphical user interface e.g. a label cloud may be shown where a number of labels are displayed together but the size of the any one label is based on how often that label is used by content item authors. For example great is a common phrase whereas terribad may not be. In the label cloud great may appear next to or near terribad but be shown in a font that is several times larger than the font used for terribad. This may give user a quick visual reference for which words or phrases are often being used when discussing the product. In some implementations the label cloud may be generated automatically and show the most used words that are relevant and meaningful to a user of the system.

Content management module may be configured to responsive to the user providing the sentiment for a labeled portion update the data store to include the received label and sentiment provided by the user. That is the content management module receives the labeled word or phrase from the interface module by way of the graphical user interface and stores the new or modified label in the data store using commands appropriate for the data store implementation e.g. a SQL update or insert statement where the data store is implemented as a relational database. During sentiment analysis this will allow the sentiment analysis module to examine other content items in the data store for the same words or phrases and therefore sentiment even though the content items with those words or phrases were not explicitly labeled by the user. If the input from the user related to a label is to delete the label in some versions the label is deleted from the data store . In other implementations the label is not necessarily removed from the data store . Instead the sentiment associated with that label may not be factored into the sentiment analysis of that specific content item or in some versions of any content item that contains the deleted label.

The content management module may also be configured to instruct the sentiment analysis module to re analyze the content items in the data store after the user has labeled the content item and or submitted sentiment for the label. This causes the sentiment analysis module to reevaluate the sentiment of the content items and overall sentiment in near real time so that after a user applies a label to a content item he or she may see the effect on the sentiment immediately because the interface module is instructed to update the graphical user interface.

A user of system though notes that terribad is in the text of content item and wishes to label it to accurately reflect the sentiment of the author. shows that the user has highlighted e.g. via mouse or keyboard or touchscreen input or the like the word terribad in the content item text. In the sentiment score is still 0.0 because no sentiment has been associated with the terribad label yet.

Referring now to when the user highlights terribad it becomes a labeled portion and the user is prompted via e.g. a popup window to designate the label as having a sentiment e.g. strongly positive positive neutral negative or strongly negative. In the user has indicated by selecting via e.g. mouse or keyboard or touchscreen input that the label should have a strongly negative sentiment. In the sentiment score for the content item is updated to reflect the additional sentiment scoring. Whereas in the sentiment score of the content item was 0.0 because great and awful canceled each other out the terribad label that was created and the corresponding sentiment associated with it has made the overall sentiment of the content item negative. Thus the sentiment score in after the terribad label was created is 0.5. Although B C and D show various parts of the graphical user interface not all parts are necessarily displayed and are listed herein for descriptive purposes only. For example in some implementations the sentiment score is not displayed and is instead a behind the scenes data value used only for charting purposes. In some implementations highlighting the word terribad causes a label for terribad to appear in the label box. In some implementations the user can type in a different label for the highlighted word e.g. if the author mistyped terribad in the content item but the user knew it should be labeled that way.

Referring back to author profiling module may be configured to store profile information associated with individual content item authors. The profile information may include information stored by server one or more of the client computing platforms information available from the content sources and or other storage locations. The profile information may also include for example information identifying users e.g. a username or handle a number an identifier and or other identifying information content source account information relationship information e.g. information related to relationships between authors or users of the content source demographic information associated with authors interaction history among authors or users of the content source information stated by the author a client computing platform identification associated with an author a phone number associated with an author a sentiment score associated with the author statistics on how often the author creates content items on the content source e.g. how frequently the author creates content items and or other information related to authors. In some implementations the graphical user interface may request profile information from the author profiling module for a particular author e.g. by way of an API or HTTP GET POST request via a SOAP message or the like and then the graphical user interface displays the profile for the author. This allows a user of the system to interact with the information described above e.g. filter the information for a particular phrase or keyword limit the information viewed to a particular time frame or window of time view the sentiment score of the author over time and or other methods of interacting with the data.

In some versions there is also a weighting module . The weighting module may be configured to assign a weight to a label such that when the sentiment analysis module analyzes content items in the data store the sentiment score for content items with that label is based in part on the weight given to that label. In some versions the weighting of a label may change over time. For example as a term is used more and more frequently it may grow in importance as more and more customers incorporate that word or phrase into their vocabulary. Conversely as a word or phrase is used more and more a user of the system may wish for the weight of that label to decline over time because it is a compliment or a complaint that is known and therefore should not strongly skew sentiment towards the positive or negative side. The weighting is an implementation specific decision made by a user of the system or the sentiment analysis module . In the case of the user the graphical user interface provided by the interface module may have a text entry menu drop down or similar input that the user interacts with to designate the desired weight that should be applied. In the case of the sentiment analysis module determining if a weight should increase or decline during analysis as the occurrence of a labeled word or phrase increases across the number of content items in the data store the sentiment analysis module may assign a greater or lesser weight as appropriate.

Processor s is configured to provide information processing capabilities in server . As such processor may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor may be configured to execute modules and or . Processor may be configured to execute modules and or by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although modules and or are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor includes multiple processing units one or more of modules and or may be located remotely from the other modules. As a non limiting example some or all of the functionality attributed to modules and or may be provided in the cloud by a plurality of processors connected through a network. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules and or herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules and or . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of modules and or . Modules and or may execute on one server on multiple distinct servers there may be a server for each respective module or the modules may be combined in any number of permutations to execute on any number of servers. Furthermore server may be a hardware server or it may be a process with a designated memory space executed on a hardware processor.

It will be appreciated that illustration in and the description herein of modules and or being provided for implementation with a sentiment analysis system is not intended to be limiting. In some implementations one or more of modules and or may provide the functionality described herein for a plurality of separate sentiment analysis systems. Such implementations may reduce redundancy of an entity that provides a plurality of different sentiment analysis systems to users e.g. different clients that wish to analyze the sentiment associated with their respective products. In such implementations the one or more of modules and or that are provided to serve a plurality of different sentiment analysis systems may be executed in a separate server from the server s executing the interface module.

In some implementations not shown the method may also include identifying an author of a particular content item. In these implementations an author profile is created for the author which may include an author sentiment score and one or more statistics on activity of the author e.g. how often the author logs in how often the user writes comments writes blog posts how the author typically answers surveys or otherwise expresses sentiment. The author sentiment score is a score similar to the score given to a content item by the sentiment analysis module but the author sentiment score is based on the content items that the author has written. In some versions the author sentiment score is an overall score spanning all of the author s content items. In other versions the author sentiment score may be divided into sentiment towards specific products or features of products or discussion topics. For example an author may always have a negative opinion about any products graphics and thus the author sentiment score for that author for a graphics feature would be a negative sentiment score. The author profile including the author sentiment scores and the statistics about the author s activity may be stored in the data store . Once the author profile has been created the graphical user interface may be made e.g. by the interface module to display the author profile.

In some versions of method not shown the method may also include a weighting aspect e.g. much like that executed by the weighting module where some labels are given more or less sentiment strength depending on how they are weighted. The weighting aspect of the method includes assigning a weight to a portion of a content item that is labeled with the system generated label. There may be another weight applied to labels that are provided by users e.g. labels that were user selected portions of the content item. These weights may then be applied to the sentiment score for the system labeled portion the user labeled portion and in some implementations the content item as a whole. Weighting in this manner may allow for more sentiment deference to a user s judgment in labeling a portion of the content item over that provided by a system labeled portion.

As described above there is in some implementations there may also be an operation performed to get the content items from a content source e.g. content source into the data store e.g. data store . In those cases the content item is retrieved from the content source before the portions of the content item are labeled with system generated labels using retrieval techniques such as HTTP GET POST requests by making a database query to the content source e.g. a SQL SELECT statement by requesting a RSS feed by making a Web Services or SOAP request by API calls to the content source by web scraping or screen scraping and or other techniques. In some implementations the operation for retrieving the content items is handled by the content retrieval module .

Although the system s and or method s of this disclosure have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

