---

title: Modular over pressure disrupter
abstract: In an exemplary embodiment, an overpressure disrupter system is described including at least one module, an explosive material contained in at least one module, and a fire retardant material contained in at least one module. At least one module includes at least one connection area, at least one outer wall; and at least one inner wall. At least one outer wall and at least one inner wall combine to form at least one outer compartments housing the fire retardant material. At least one inner wall forms at least one inner compartment housing the explosive material. At least one connection area is configured to connect at least one module with at least one of another of at least one module and at least one ancillary device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08621974&OS=08621974&RS=08621974
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08621974
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120430
---
The embodiments of the invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The subject matter described herein relates to over pressure disrupters for use in explosives disposal such as vehicle born improvised explosive devices VBIEDs . Explosives disposal involves neutralizing or otherwise removing explosives with a minimum amount of damage. Explosives disposal is necessary in many situations such as for example with handling improvised explosive devices IEDs . Over pressure disruption is a technique in which the fusing of an IED such as electronic fusing is disrupted by introducing pressure such as into a compartment or interior of a vehicle. The aim of using an over pressure disrupter is to prohibit the IED from detonating. Existing over pressure disrupters such as Maxi Candle Slim Jim and Bottler disrupters have limitations as described further herein.

One aspect of the invention provides an overpressure disrupter system including one or more modules an explosive material contained in one or more modules and a fire retardant material contained in one or more modules one or more modules further comprising one or more connection areas one or more outer walls and one or more inner walls. One or more outer walls and one or more inner walls combine to form one or more outer compartments housing the fire retardant material. One or more inner walls form one or more inner compartments housing the explosive material. One or more connection areas are configured to connect one or more of the one or more modules with one or more of another of the one or more modules and one or more ancillary devices.

Another aspect of the invention provides an overpressure disrupter system including two or more connectable modules an explosive material contained is the two or more connectable modules and a fire retardant powder contained in the two or more connectable modules. The two or more connectable modules connect via standardized connector areas contained within each of the two or more connectable modules. The fire retardant powder is disposed within the two or more connectable modules to encompass substantially the explosive material.

A further aspect of the invention provides an over pressure disrupter system including a series of connected modules connected via a plurality of connection areas. The series of connected modules each comprise an explosive charge substantially surrounded with a fire retardant material. The fire retardant material is substantially surrounded by a polycarbonate outer shell and one or more detonators connected to one or more of the plurality of connection areas.

The foregoing is a summary and thus may contain simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

For a better understanding of the embodiments together with other and further features and advantages thereof reference is made to the following description. The scope of the invention will be pointed out in the appended claims.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described herein may be arranged differently from the described example embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the example embodiments is not intended to limit the scope of the claims but is merely representative of those embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to embodiment s or the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases according to embodiments or an embodiment or the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to give a thorough understanding of example embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that aspects can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials et cetera. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obfuscation.

An over pressure disrupter system to disrupt electronic fusing may be used for deactivating vehicle born improvised explosive devices VBIEDs . An over pressure disrupter system aims to increase the pressure such as within a vehicle compartment in order to disable a VBIED. However existing systems have some drawbacks including catching components such as internal components of the vehicle for example a seat or a dashboard on fire when detonated. Existing overpressure disruption systems include Maxi Candle Slim Jim and Bottler.

Existing systems have a high probability of fire such as in the compartment of the vehicle if the over pressure disrupter charge or particles heated thereby comes in contact with the compartment interior. This hazard is likely because existing systems either use no fire retardant material or utilize water which is unsuitable for operating storage at various temperatures. Additionally existing systems lack modularity the charges can not be readily connected together and require separate blasting caps for each charge used . Moreover existing systems do not provide ancillary devices or sub components that make use more convenient such as an incorporated window breaker or robotic gripper block making deployment and use of existing systems difficult.

Accordingly an embodiment provides an overpressure disrupter. An embodiment may be implemented for example as a vehicle modular overpressure disrupter VMOD system providing overpressure to disrupt electronic fusing used with vehicle born improvised explosive devices VBIEDs . According to an embodiment a VMOD system is modular for example comprised of three explosive modules. The explosive modules may be used individually or connected together. The VMOD system may include other modules ancillary devices such as detonators incorporated window breaker and or robotic gripper block.

The description now turns to the figures. The illustrated example embodiments will be best understood by reference to the figures. The following description is intended only by way of example and simply illustrates certain example embodiments representative of the invention as claimed.

Referring to an example VMOD system is illustrated. In the example illustrated in three explosive modules A B and C are shown. The explosive modules A B and C may be connected using a variety of connection techniques. For example explosive module A may be connected to explosive module B which is in turn connected to explosive module C via threading such that the explosive modules A B and C form a modular system. Each interface or connection such as between explosive module A and explosive module B or between explosive module B and explosive module C may include an appropriate material such as an explosive to permit detonation of any explosive module selected form A B and or C provide detonation of any connected modules whether connected directly to the initiated module or indirectly connected thereto . Connections may also be plugged as shown in with hexagonal bolts at the end of the plugs and filled with another material such as fire retardant material as further described herein. In one example booster connector s described further herein may be used to connect the modules to facilitate detonation of each connected explosive module here explosive modules A B and C to connect ancillary devices and or as plugs filled with fire retardant material.

The example VMOD system illustrated in may include ancillary device s such as ancillary devices D and E. An ancillary device may be one device or a plurality of integrated devices. Moreover there may be more than one ancillary device included as described in connection with . As illustrated in the ancillary device D is located atop explosive module B and provides both a robotic gripper such that it can be handled and manipulated robotically such as for placement within a vehicle s passenger compartment and a window breaker such as to facilitate entry and placement of VMOD system within a compartment such as a vehicle s passenger compartment.

In which is a side view of another ancillary device E is illustrated as connected to one of the explosive modules the center explosive module in this example corresponding to explosive module B in . The ancillary device E provides an initiation charge to detonate the explosive module to which it is connected. For example the ancillary device E may be a blasting cap modified to connect to the center explosive module as for example by threads allowing it to be screwed into the center explosive module via an adapter as further described herein. It should be noted that ancillary device s may be connected to other explosive modules or components of a VMOD system in addition to the illustrated representative examples illustrated in the figures.

Referring to a cross section of an explosive module is illustrated. The explosive module illustrated in may be any of explosive modules A C of . As illustrated the explosive module has an outer cylinder wall which may be of another shape according to the implementation chosen . In an exemplary embodiment referring to the outer cylinder wall may be a single continuous structure. In another exemplary embodiment referring to the outer cylinder wall may be a structure formed from two separate pieces of material that snap or lock together. The outer cylinder wall may be made of polycarbonate plastic such as LEXAN 1414 or some other plastic. For use in military theater operations the outer cylinder wall may be made of a material that is highly resistant to extreme temperature changes though in many situations this will not be a requirement. The explosive module contains a main explosive charge which may be selected based on the particular implementation and characteristics desired such as a main explosive charge of PBXN 11 PBXN 9 PBXN 114 or PBXW 115 for handling VBIEDs.

A fire retardant material may surround the main explosive charge for example ABC fire retardant powder including ammonium phosphate . The module in an exemplary embodiment may be sized as about 4 inches in length by about 4 inches in diameter. The fire retardant material fills one or more cavities such that it surrounds the main explosive charge . The fire retardant material is selected and placed such that it functions to reduce the flame and heat damage and minimizes the propagation of the flame of the main charge to surrounding materials that will inevitably result from the detonation of the main charge . Thus the fire retardant material functions to minimize heat and burn damage responsive to detonation of the main explosive charge . In an exemplary embodiment referring to the fire retardant material is continuous throughout a length of the adjacent outer cylinder wall . In another exemplary embodiment referring to the fire retardant material is composed of two separate sections separated by a membrane such as a plastic membrane while being adjacent a length of the adjacent outer cylinder wall .

An inner wall such as an inner cylindrical wall may be utilized to enclose the main explosive charge and keep it separate from the fire retardant material . The inner wall may be comprised of the same material as the outer cylindrical wall . End cap s may be placed into connection areas of the module . The end cap s may be comprised of the same material as the outer cylindrical wall . The end cap s occupy a space such as a ridge defined in the connection area of the module such that a connection area may be closed off. End cap s may be used to contain a filling material such as a fire retardant material as further described herein within the connection areas . The connection areas when a module is to be connected to another module or an ancillary device as illustrated in may not contain end cap s . The connection area s may be configured for convenient connection with another module or an ancillary device such as by having threads therein as described further herein. The connector area s may be formed to include booster well s for accepting a separate connecting piece described further herein that forms a connection between modules and or modules and ancillary device s .

Module may also contain one or more inner seals one is indicated at that may be used to separate a main charge from other components or areas of the module such as a connection area containing fire retardant material . The seal s may be comprised of the same material chose for the outer cylinder wall and may be fixed in place as for example with a two part epoxy. Module may also contain additional features to facilitate additional functionality. For example module illustrated in includes indents for attaching an ancillary device such as attachment of ancillary device D via ring clamps.

The choice of shape for a module may be dictated by the desired outcome. For example where increased fire suppression is desirable choice of a cylindrical shape for a module affords a coating of fire retardant material that coats surrounding structures such as a car seat in a vehicle compartment and helps extinguish the flame front responsive to detonation of the main charge . For example with a cylindrical shape the fireball duration from the main charge from a module may be reduced to about 7 ms as compared with fireball duration of about 140 ms when no fire retardant is used in a similarly shaped module. Thus cylindrical modules in combination with use of fire retardant material may be utilized to essential eliminate the flame front from the explosion and provide an explosion essentially free from fire burning.

A cylindrical structure as illustrated in also provides for convenient connection of modules to one another and of module s to ancillary devices as further described herein. It should be noted however that other shapes and configurations of a module may be chosen and or modules having different shapes and configurations in the same system may be desirable in some circumstances such as addition of different ancillary devices to different modules.

As illustrated in the system may be modular in that the explosive modules may be linked together or connected in an appropriate number and configuration for a given circumstance. Referring to a connection piece such as a separate booster connector A which may have a hollow cavity or interior and be filled with an explosive charge or fire retardant material may be used to connect modules such as explosive modules A C of or modules and ancillary devices together. The explosive charge may be the same as used in the main charge or another appropriate material such that detonation of one explosive module for example explosive module B of facilitates detonation of other explosive module s such as explosive modules A and C of .

A standard connection piece such as booster connector A supplied with the VMODS may be designed to initiate and or connect modules. For example a standard connection piece allows connection of either an explosive module to another explosive module or to an ancillary device such as ancillary device E of which may be a blasting cap modified to connect to an explosive module via the connecting piece. A booster connector A alone can also be used to link one module to another. In this manner the connector s A explosive fill propagates the detonation wave to the subsequent modules. As an example for a system having modules of the example size noted above connectors A connecting such modules may contain an explosive fill material of approximately 18 grams which may consist of PBXN 11 or the like.

A booster connector A may have a shape and function similar to that of a pipe nipple and be threaded A on both ends around a central portion A such that it may interface with for example be screwed into threaded connector area s or wells thereof of an explosive module or corresponding connector area of an ancillary device . The threads may thus anchor the booster connector A into one of the booster wells on the side or the end of the module. It should be noted that the example connector areas and connection piece A as with other components of the module may take a variety of forms including for example having male and female connector area s formed in modules ancillary devices at some locations such that an additional connection piece is not needed.

Referring to an example cross section of a booster connector B is illustrated. Again threaded portions B are illustrated along with center portion B. Here booster connector B acts as a container for fill material B which may be selected as desired. For example fill material B may be comprised of an explosive material such as PBNX 11 when booster connector B acts to connect two explosive modules such as modules A B and C of . Alternatively fill material B may be composed of a fire retardant material such as ammonium phosphate when booster connector B acts to plug a non connected connection area of a module such as illustrated in with hexagonal bolts at the end of the plugs not illustrated in . Booster connector B may also server as a connection point for an adapter such as an adapter for connecting an ancillary device such as ancillary device E as further described herein.

Referring to an example of an adapter is illustrated. The adapter may be configured to facilitate connection to a booster connector as for example by including a portion that interfaces with booster connector threads. The adapter may have another portion suitably configured for connecting with an ancillary device such as ancillary devices D and or E of . The example illustrated in includes a threaded adapter with a detonator retainer for example for retaining a blasting cap that may be screwed onto a booster connector and used as an initiation device to provide a means of inserting a blasting cap as indicated by the arrow in and initiating a module or system. With an adapter installed the booster connector may be used as an initiation booster to initiate a module from either the side or the end. It should be noted that the measurements illustrated in which are in inches are approximate measurements and represent only one example embodiment. Other measurements are contemplated such as for use with different sized shaped booster connectors different sized shaped modules and the like.

This disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain principles and practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

In the specification there has been set forth example embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are used the description thus given uses terminology in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the embodiments of the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

