---

title: Launching applications from webpages
abstract: This specification describes technologies relating to launching applications from content items in webpages. In general, one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include receiving a content item including a first data element that identifies an application and a second data element that identifies a product. The methods may further include displaying the content item, receiving a user selection of the content item, and, in response, automatically checking if the application is installed on a user device. The methods may further include transmitting a request, including the first data element, to a server and installing the application identified by the first data element on the user device. The methods may further include launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355186&OS=09355186&RS=09355186
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09355186
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
Priority is hereby claimed to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 554 310 which was filed on Nov. 1 2011. The contents of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 554 310 are hereby incorporated by reference into this disclosure in their entirety.

The Internet provides access to a wide variety of resources. For example video and or audio files as well as web pages for particular subjects or particular news articles are accessible over the Internet. Access to these resources presents opportunities for content items e.g. advertisements to be provided with the resources. The pairing of content items with requested resources can generate value. For example a web page can include content slots in which advertisements or other content items can be presented. These content slots can be defined in the web page or defined for presentation with a web page for example in a pop up window. Paired online content may include a link to a landing page with additional information thought to be of interest to a user.

Applications for mobile devices are often available for download from application vendors that run maintain servers for this purpose.

This specification describes technologies relating to launching applications from content item in a webpage. In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes receiving a content item that includes a first data element that identifies an application and a second data element that identifies a product. The method may further include displaying the content item and receiving a user selection of the content item. The method may further include in response to receiving the user selection automatically checking if the application is installed on a user device. The method may further include transmitting a request to a server wherein the request includes the first data element and installing the application identified by the first data element on the user device. The method may further include launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes transmitting a content item including a first data element that identifies an application a second data element that identifies a product and a set of instructions. The set of instructions when executed by a user device in response to user selection of the content item cause the processing device to perform operations including automatically checking if the application is installed on the user device and launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product. The set of instructions may be a script. The operations may further include transmitting conversion tracking information.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a data processing apparatus and a memory coupled to the data processing apparatus. The memory having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the data processing apparatus cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations including receiving a content item that includes a first data element that identifies an application and a second data element that identifies a product. The operations may further include displaying the content item and receiving a user selection of the content item. The operations may further include in response to receiving the user selection automatically checking if the application is installed on a user device. The operations may further include transmitting a request to a server wherein the request includes the first data element and installing the application identified by the first data element on the user device. The operations may further include launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a data processing apparatus and a memory coupled to the data processing apparatus. The memory having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the data processing apparatus cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations including transmitting a content item including a first data element that identifies an application a second data element that identifies a product and a set of instructions. The set of instructions when executed by a user device in response to user selection of the content item cause the processing device to perform operations including automatically checking if the application is installed on the user device and launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product. The set of instructions may be a script. The operations may further include transmitting conversion tracking information.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a network interface configured to receive a content item that includes a first data element that identifies an application and a second data element that identifies a product. The system may further include a display configured to display the content item. The system may further include a user interface configured to receive a user selection of the content item. The system may further include means for in response to receiving the user selection automatically checking if the application is installed. The system may further include a network interface configured to transmit a request to a server wherein the request includes the first data element. The system may further include a module configured to install the application identified by the first data element. The system may further include means for launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a network interface configured to transmit a content item including a first data element that identifies an application a second data element that identifies a product and a set of instructions. The set of instructions when executed by a user device in response to user selection of the content item cause the processing device to perform operations including automatically checking if the application is installed on the user device and launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product. The set of instructions may be a script. The operations may further include transmitting conversion tracking information.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a mobile device that includes a wireless network interface configured to receive a content item that includes a first data element that identifies an application and a second data element that identifies a product. The system may further include a display configured to a present the content item. The system may further include a user interface configured to receive a user selection of the content item. The system may further include means for in response to receiving the user selection automatically checking if the application is installed. The system may further include a wireless network interface configured to transmit a request to a server wherein the request includes the first data element. The system may further include means for launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a computer readable storage media storing software including instructions executable by a processing device that upon such execution cause the processing device to perform operations that include receiving a content item that includes a first data element that identifies an application and a second data element that identifies a product. The operations may further include displaying the content item and receiving a user selection of the content item. The operations may further include in response to receiving the user selection automatically checking if the application is installed on a user device. The operations may further include transmitting a request to a server wherein the request includes the first data element and installing the application identified by the first data element on the user device. The operations may further include launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a computer readable storage media storing software including instructions executable by a processing device that upon such execution cause the processing device to perform operations that include transmitting a content item including a first data element that identifies an application a second data element that identifies a product and a set of instructions. The set of instructions when executed by a user device in response to user selection of the content item cause the processing device to perform operations including automatically checking if the application is installed on the user device and launching the application with the second data element as an input so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product. The set of instructions may be a script. The operations may further include transmitting conversion tracking information.

These and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features. A purchase transaction for the product may be completed using the application. Conversion tracking information may be transmitted. The content item may include an address for a server that maintains a conversion log. The content item may include a third data element that identifies a minimum version for the application. A check may be performed to determine if an installed version of the application is older than the minimum version for the application. The second data element may be stored in a message queue for applications until the application is launched. The server may provide download of applications. The server may redirect the request to a second server that provides download of applications. The application may be automatically launched after installation. Icons for a plurality of applications that are configured to process the second data element may be displayed and a user selection of the application may be received. Applications not matching the first data element may be prevented from processing the second data element.

Particular embodiments of the invention can be implemented to realize none one or more of the following advantages. Some implementations may facilitate purchase of products associated with content items by deep linking from the content item in a webpage directly to related content presented in a specialized application adapted to facilitate purchase transactions. Some implementations may enhance user experience by streamlining the process of finding and purchasing products. Some implementations may facilitate brand promotion for advertisers by linking an advertiser s specialized application to products that users are interested in and encouraging users to adopt the advertiser s online shopping application. Users of an advertiser s application may be more likely to make future purchases from the advertiser rather than competitors. Some implementations may help to increase the install base for an advertiser s application.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Many mobile applications allow users to make purchases from within the application. For example users may purchase books through a BookStore App or a camera through a Shopping App. It may be difficult to directly promote the adoption of these applications because the products they sell rather than the applications themselves may be the primary driver of user interest. Allowing publishers or advertisers to create content items that deep link directly to the content within their applications may lead to better user experience as well as create opportunities for the publisher to drive more business.

For example a user may use a device e.g. a mobile device to search for a product. A user search query for a camera may result in a content item e.g. an advertisement that is included in a search result webpage. The content item may include data elements that allow for a deep link into the camera section of a Shopping App associated with the content item. Similarly content items on a webpage about a book review should be able to deep link into the specific section about the book in the BookStore App.

Data elements identifying a product of interest may be passed into an application when it is launched to facilitate this deep linking. A user device may be configured to handle the case where an application specified by a content item is not installed on the device. When a user selects e.g. clicks on the content item if the application is installed the application may be launched with the associated product related data elements as inputs so that the content e.g. a landing page related to the product is displayed in the application. If the application is not currently installed a user may be presented with a download screen for the application served from an application vendor system. With user authorization the application may be downloaded and installed on a user device. When the installation is complete the application may be launched with the deep link information.

In some implementations instructions e.g. a JavaScript script for checking whether a designated application is installed and launching the application may be included in the content item.

A content item is any data that can be provided over a network. For example an advertisement including a link to a landing page is a content item.

Deep linking is making a hyperlink that points to a specific content e.g. a webpage or image on a destination website instead of that website s main or home page. Such links may be called deep links. For example an online merchant s website may have a main or home page that welcomes visitors and helps them to find content or products of interest. A visitor may navigate to other webpages within the website that include content related to particular products. A link that directs a user to a webpage for a particular product on the merchant s website without viewing the main or home page is an example of a deep link.

A website includes one or more resources associated with a domain name and hosted by one or more servers. An example website is a collection of webpages formatted in hypertext markup language HTML that can contain text images multimedia content and programming elements e.g. scripts. Each website is maintained by a publisher e.g. an entity that controls manages and or owns the website .

A resource includes any data that can be provided over the network . A resource is identified by a resource address that is associated with the resource . Resources include HTML pages word processing documents and portable document format PDF documents images video and feed sources to name only a few examples. The resources can include content e.g. words phrases images and sounds that may include embedded information e.g. meta information in hyperlinks and or embedded instructions e.g. JavaScript scripts .

A user device is an electronic device that is under control of a user and is capable of requesting and receiving resources over the network . Example user devices include personal computers mobile communication devices and other devices that can send and receive data over the network . A user device typically includes a user application e.g. a web browser to facilitate the sending and receiving of data over the network and the presentation of content to a user.

A user device can request resources from a website . In turn data representing the resource can be provided to the user device for presentation by the user device . The data representing the resource can also include data specifying a portion of the resource or a portion of a user display e.g. a presentation location of a pop up window or in a slot of a web page in which advertisements or other content can be presented. These specified portions of the resource or user display are referred to as advertisement slots or impressions.

To facilitate searching of these resources the environment can include a search system that identifies the resources by crawling and indexing the resources provided by the publishers on the websites . Data about the resources can be indexed based on the resource to which the data corresponds. The indexed and optionally cached copies of the resources are stored in an indexed cache .

User devices can submit search queries to the search system over the network . In response the search system accesses the indexed cache to identify resources that are relevant to the search query . The search system identifies the resources in the form of search results and returns the search results to the user devices in search results pages. A search result is data generated by the search system that identifies a resource that is responsive to a particular search query and includes a link to the resource. An example search result can include a web page title a snippet of text or a portion of an image extracted from the web page and the URL of the web page. Search results pages can also include one or more advertisement slots in which advertisements or other content can be presented.

When a resource or search results are requested by a user device the advertisement management system receives a request for additional content e.g. advertisements to be provided with the resource or search results . The request for advertisements can include characteristics of the advertisement slots that are defined for the requested resource or search results page and these requests are provided to the advertisement management system .

For example a reference e.g. URL to the resource for which the advertisement slot is defined a size of the advertisement slot and or media types that are available for presentation in the advertisement slot can be provided to the advertisement management system . Similarly keywords associated with a requested resource resource keywords or a search query for which search results are requested can also be provided to the advertisement management system to facilitate identification of advertisements that are relevant to the resource or search query .

Based on data included in the request for advertisements the advertisement management system can select advertisements that are eligible to be provided in response to the request eligible advertisements . For example eligible advertisements can include advertisements having characteristics matching the characteristics of advertisement slots and that are identified as relevant to specified resource keywords or search queries .

The advertisement management system can select from the eligible advertisements that are provided for presentation in advertisement slots of a resource or search results page based on results of an auction. For example the advertisement management system can receive bids from advertisers and allocate the advertisement slots to the highest bidders at the conclusion of the auction. The bids are amounts that the advertisers are willing to pay for presentation or selection of their advertisement with a resource or search results page. For example a bid can specify an amount that an advertiser is willing to pay for each 1000 impressions i.e. presentations of the advertisement referred to as a CPC bid. Alternatively the bid can specify an amount that the advertiser is willing to pay for a selection i.e. a click through of the advertisement or a conversion following selection of the advertisement. The highest bidders can be determined based on the bids alone or based on the bids of each bidder being multiplied by one or more factors e.g. quality scores derived from advertisement performance landing page scores and the like .

A conversion occurs when a user performs a particular action related to an advertisement provided with a resource or search results page. What constitutes a conversion may vary from case to case and can be determined in a variety of ways. For example a conversion may occur when a user clicks on an advertisement and is referred to a landing page. Another conversion may occur when a user consummates a purchase before leaving that landing page or within a predetermined period of time e.g. 30 days after first visiting the landing page. A conversion can also be defined by an advertiser to be any measurable observable user action. User actions may include for example downloading a white paper navigating to at least a given depth of a website viewing at least a certain number of web pages spending at least a predetermined amount of time on a website or web page registering on a website etc. Other actions that constitute a conversion can also be used.

The advertisement management system may store and access data regarding past allocations of content items and user interactions in a data store . The data store is a data store that stores data representing previous user interactions with publisher websites and advertisements. For example in response to receiving a request for an advertisement the advertisement management system can store data identifying the website to which the request corresponds and identifying the request as an impression for the website. Additionally the advertisement management system can store data representing the advertisements that were provided in response to the request and any user actions e.g. clicks or conversions that are detected following presentation of the advertisements. The data store may also store user session logs.

The advertisement management system may also include an application URL module . The application URL module may be used to generate or modify a formatted URL for a content item. For example the application URL module may receive a content item from an advertiser that includes a URL for a landing page. The URL may be formatted and include data elements specifying a preferred application for viewing the landing page and aspects of a product or products associated with the content item. The application URL module may modify the URL by adding data elements related to conversion tracking. For example the application URL module may add the URL for a conversion tracking server as a Common Gateway Interface CGI parameter. The application URL module may transmit modified content items through a server system interface component of the advertisement management system . In some implementations the application URL module may generate a deep linking application specific landing page URL based on unformatted data elements associated with the content item received from an advertiser .

The online environment may also include an application vendor system . The application vendor system may include one or more servers that offer applications for download. Some applications may be available free of charge while other applications may require a purchase transaction prior to download. In some implementations the application URL module may modify an application specific landing page URL to include as a CGI parameter the URL for an application vendor system server that offers download of the application associated with a content item.

A user device may include an application finder module . The application finder module may be used to check whether the user device has the application specified by a content item installed. If necessary the application finder module may facilitate download of the application from the application vendor system and installation of the application on the user device. The application finder module may further facilitate the launch of the application with input parameters that allow the application to automatically load content for a product associated with the content item.

The application finder module may be implemented as software that is executed on a processing apparatus such as the mobile device illustrated in .

The advertising management system may be implemented as software that is executed on a processing apparatus such as one or more computing devices e.g. a computer system as illustrated in .

The process may be implemented by an application finder module that is executed by a user s mobile computing device e.g. illustrated in . For example process may be implemented by the App Finder that is executed by the mobile device described in .

A content item associated with an application and a product is received . For example the content item may be an advertisement that includes a URL for a landing page with more information that may be of interest to a user. The URL may identify an application that may be used to view the contents of the landing page. The URL may further include one or more data elements specifying a product associated with the content item. In some implementations the content item may further include a URL for a conversion tracking server e.g. a component of advertisement management system . The conversion tracking server may maintain a log of conversions for content items. For example a content item associated with a song available for download may include a URL in the format 

In some implementations the content item may be generated in part by an advertiser of . In some implementations the content item may be generated in part and transmitted by the App URL module of the advertisement management system of .

The content may be received by a user device e.g. a cell phone . The content item may be received via a network interface component of the user device. In some implementations the content may be received through a wireless network interface on a user device e.g. antenna illustrated in .

The content item is displayed to a user. The content item may be processed along with the rest of a webpage in which it is served by a browser application e.g. browser illustrated in running on a user device of . The browser application may render an image based on the content item that may then be displayed on the display of a user device e.g. display illustrated in . For example the content item may include a link that is labeled View in Company App .

A user selection of the content item is received . A user may select the content item by using a user interface device e.g. a keypad a mouse a j mouse or touchpad on a user device. For example a user may select the content item by clicking on a portion of display using pointing device of the mobile device illustrated in .

A user device is checked to determine if the application specified by the content item is installed. For example a list of registered applications stored by the operating system on a user device is searched for value matching a data element in the content item that identifies an application. In some implementations the version number of an installed application may be checked by comparing it to a minimum version number specified by a data element in the content item.

When the user selection is received an application finder module may be run on a user device to process the data elements e.g. URL components or parameters associated with the content item and check whether the specified application is installed. For example application finder illustrated in may be run to check whether the application associated with the content item is installed on mobile device .

If an adequate version of the application is not installed a request for the application may be transmitted to a remote server. For example a request for the application may be transmitted by a user device to a server for an application vendor system . In some implementations the request may be transmitted a server for an advertiser . In some implementations an advertiser server may redirect the request to a server for an application vendor system.

The request for the application may cause a remote server to respond by transmitting one or more webpages including an offer to download the application. A user may interact with one or more of these webpages to initiate a download of the application. In some implementations a download of the application may commence automatically using account information a user has previously registered with an application vendor system. In some implementations a user may enter billing information through the webpages. In some implementations a user may authorize a download operation by indicating agreement to terms.

The application may be installed on the user device. For example the application identified by the content item may be installed on the mobile device that is illustrated in .

After installation is complete or if the application was previously installed the application may be launched with a data element identifying a product associated with the content item as an input parameter. For example where the content item includes a URL with data elements that specify a song the application may start up by loading a landing page provided by an advertiser s server that displays information regarding the song and an icon that when selected will allow the user to complete a purchase transaction that will result in the download of the song to the user s device.

In some implementations one or more data elements identifying a product associated with the content item may be written to a message queue for applications that is maintained by an operating system on a user device. The message may include a unique identifier for the target application. When the application is launched the application may check the message queue for messages targeted to it and retrieve the previously saved message. The application may decode one or more data elements identifying the product and accept them as input parameters. Based on these input parameters the application may automatically load and display content e.g. a specified landing page associated with the identified product.

The application may be launched automatically when the application is determined to be previously installed. In some implementations the application is launched automatically after the installation process completes. In some implementations the launch may be initiated by user input e.g. input received through pointing device . In some implementations a user is presented with icons for multiple applications that may handle the landing page for the content item. For example applications may be registered with the operating system for a user device in manner that indicates they handle URLs that match a certain pattern. The user may then select among the available applications. In some implementations applications other than the designated application i.e. that do not match the data element identifying an application for the content item that are capable of processing the landing page may be suppressed. For example the designated application may be automatically launched to process the landing page without presenting a user with a selection of available applications. In some implementations the user may be presented with only a single option the identified application for handling the landing page. A user s permission may be requested to launch the application to view the linked content. For example a user may be presented with a message This link is going to open Company App. Do you want to open this app Y N . The message may include a make this the default behavior option.

The application may be launched on a user device e.g. mobile device illustrated in . An application finder module running on a user device to may initiate the launch of the specified application. For example application finder illustrated in may launch the application associated with the content item when the application is installed on mobile device . In some implementations a user may initiate the launch of the application by a selection entered through user interface device e.g. keyboard or pointing device .

A user may use the application to further interact with content e.g. a specified landing page associated with the product and may choose to purchase the product. The application may facilitate the purchase transaction. For example the application may present the user with a buy now icon. If the user selects e.g. with pointer device the buy now icon the user may be presented with webpages that may be used to complete a purchase transaction e.g. by entering billing information and indicating assent to sales terms. In some implementations billing information for a user may be preregistered so that manifesting assent by selecting the buy now icon is sufficient to complete the purchase transaction.

The application may transmit conversion data to a server. The application may accept a data element specifying a conversion tracking server as an input parameter. For example the application may accept the conversion url as a CGI input parameter. When a purchase or other transaction is completed by the user the application may transmit data reflecting the transaction to a designated conversion server e.g. a server with a URL matching the value of the conversion url data element .

In some implementations instructions e.g. a JavaScript script for checking whether a designated application is installed and launching the application may be included in the content item. These instructions may be executed to implement portions of process rather than relying on a pre installed module in the user device configured to implement the process. The instructions may be executed by a browser e.g. browser of application using runtime libraries e.g. Core Java Libraries on a user device. The instructions may cause the browser to automatically check if the application is installed on the user device. The instructions may further cause the application to be launched with a data element specifying a product associated with the content item as an input parameter so that the first content displayed by the application relates to the product. The instructions may cause a request for the application to be transmitted from the user device to an application vendor system server . The instructions may cause the data reflecting a conversion to be transmitted from the user device to a conversion tracking server e.g. a component of advertisement management system . The content item including a data element specifying the application a data element specifying the product and the instructions may be transmitted from an advertisement management server to a user device .

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary mobile device that implements application finder module shown in is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to launch and if necessary install an application based on user selection of a content item in a webpage.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with a QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera or other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that cause a data processing apparatus to launch and if necessary install an application based on user selection of a content item in a webpage.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as a mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GMAIL email application an instant messaging application a video service application a mapping application or an imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine a gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for launching and if necessary installing an application based on user selection of a content item in a webpage using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager content providers and application finder . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application and a browser application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and application finder processes associated with the application finder application library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example an application finder module may be implemented as part of a client application on a user device e.g. mobile device for interfacing with application vendor servers. In some implementations an application finder module may be implemented as part of an application launcher system service e.g. application launcher on a user device e.g. mobile device .

For situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about users the users may be provided with an opportunity to opt in out of programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s preferences or a user s current location . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained for example to a city zip code or state level so that a particular location of the user cannot be determined.

The processes described herein and variations thereof contain functionality to ensure that party privacy is protected. Likewise the processes may be programmed to confirm that information about a party is publicly known before divulging that information to another party even before incorporating that information into a social graph.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

