---

title: Method and apparatus for providing QoS-based service in wireless communication system
abstract: A method and an apparatus for providing a Quality of Service (QoS)-based service in a wireless communication system are provided. The method includes providing a Mobile Station (MS) with at least one QoS plan indicating a price policy for a QoS acceleration service having a higher QoS than a default QoS designated for a user of the MS in response to a request from the MS, providing the MS with an authorized token and a QoS quota based on a selected QoS plan in response to a purchase request of the MS, providing the MS with service contents selected by the user through a radio bearer for the QoS acceleration service, notifying the MS, if a usage of the QoS acceleration service reaches a threshold, of an impending expiration of the QoS acceleration service, and notifying the MS of the expiration of the QoS acceleration service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08913987&OS=08913987&RS=08913987
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08913987
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120130
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jan. 28 2011 and assigned Serial No. 10 2011 0009104 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a wireless communication system. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for providing a Quality of Service QoS based acceleration service in a wireless communication system.

Mobile Stations MSs or users of MSs desiring to transmit or receive data traffic in a wireless communication system may require a guarantee for a desired Quality of Service QoS e.g. a desired data rate a low latency and stable communications for high speed data communication. Additionally a cellular service operator or a cellular operator may operate and or provide a variety of data and QoS plans in order for users to meet the QoS requirements and may use a QoS based billing system.

Examples of operator services for QoS based billing may include operator sponsored charging provided as an operator promotion for selected services services by paid applications known to users such as a turbo service guaranteeing high speed data communication and time based services such as online data coupons.

In a relate art mobile communication system different flat rate plans including a fixed amount of data are selected by different users. Accordingly a user may no longer enjoy the data service when the user has exhausted the fixed amount of data allocated according to the plan the user selected. In this case the user may want to temporarily enjoy data services further without changing his or her plan or may want to be provided with a high QoS data service for specific service or data content while using a plan that is incapable of the high QoS data service. However the related art mobile communication system may not support these diverse needs of users.

Therefore a need exists for a system and method for performing a self diagnosis of a device without the inconvenience caused when manually selecting a self diagnosis item from a computer or a user interface.

Aspects of the present invention are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for providing a high data rate acceleration service for service content selected by a user.

Another aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for providing accelerated Quality of Service QoS to a user for specific service content by a cellular operator.

Furthermore another aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for requesting a high data rate service from a cellular operator for service content desired by a user.

Yet another aspect of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is to provide a mobile system operating method and apparatus for providing high data rate services for service content requested by a user.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method for providing a QoS based service in a wireless communication system is provided. The method includes providing a Mobile Station MS with at least one QoS plan indicating a price policy for a QoS acceleration service in response to a request from the MS for the QoS acceleration service having a higher QoS than a default QoS designated for a user of the MS providing the MS with an authorized token and a QoS quota based on a QoS plan selected for the QoS acceleration service in response to a purchase request of the MS providing the MS with service contents selected by the user through a radio bearer such as a radio bearer or RF bearer for the QoS acceleration service if a usage of the QoS acceleration service reaches a threshold according to the QoS quota notifying the MS of an impending expiration of the QoS acceleration service and if the QoS acceleration service has expired notifying the MS of the expiration of the QoS acceleration service.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an apparatus for providing a QoS based service in a wireless communication system is provided. The apparatus includes a memory for storing at least one QoS plan indicating a price policy for a QoS acceleration service in response to a request from a MS for the QoS acceleration service having a higher QoS than a default QoS designated for a user of the MS and a controller for providing the QoS plan to the MS determining an authorized token and a QoS quota based on a QoS plan selected by the user for the QoS acceleration service in response to a purchase request of the user and providing the MS with service contents requested by the user of the MS through a radio bearer for the QoS acceleration service. If a usage of the QoS acceleration service reaches a threshold according to the QoS quota the controller notifies the MS of an impending expiration of the QoS acceleration service and if the QoS acceleration service has expired the controller notifies the MS of the expiration of the QoS acceleration service.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method for selecting a QoS based service in a MS of a wireless communication system is provided. The method includes displaying on a screen of the MS at least one QoS plan indicating a price policy for a QoS acceleration service in response to a request from a user of the MS for the QoS acceleration service having a higher QoS than a default QoS designated for a user of the MS transmitting a purchase request corresponding to a selected one of the at least one QoS plan to a Base Station BS providing the MS with an authorized token and a QoS quota based on the selected QoS plan and receiving at the MS service contents selected by the user through a radio bearer for the QoS acceleration service.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Throughout the drawings the same drawing reference numerals will be understood to refer to the same elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the invention. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

In this specification although reference will be made to a specific communication protocol and system structure in the description of a Quality of Service QoS acceleration service in a mobile communication system it will be understood by those of ordinary skilled in the art that the proposed acceleration QoS provision will not be limited to the specific communication protocol and system structure and aspects of the present invention may be applied to any suitable communication protocol and system structure.

Referring to a user may use data services having different QoS levels or types by using a Mobile Station MS or a User Equipment UE such as a cellular phone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or other similar electronic devices. The MS which uses subscribed cellular services provided by a cellular operator may receive desired service content from a service provider on an Internet Protocol IP based data network through a Radio Access Network RAN and display the received service content so that the user may view the displayed service content.

The RAN which is operated by the cellular operator includes network elements corresponding to a communication protocol of a specific Radio Access Technology RAT . For example the RAN of a General Packet Radio Service GPRS based 3rd Generation 3G Partnership Project 3GPP and Long Term Evolution LTE systems may include a Node B for directly setting up a wireless interface to the MS a Radio Network Controller RNC and a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway P GW for providing access to a data network.

The service provider providing service content to the MS of the user through a PDN may operate according to an operator policy determined through mutual agreement with the cellular operator . For example the service provider may be a video server of a video broadcasting station or website such as YouTube or other similar stations or websites.

As illustrated the user may receive service content from the service provider on the data network through the RAN and the service content may be provided within a QoS quota permitted by the cellular operator . The QoS quota is determined based on a QoS price policy and the user may purchase the service content by paying a data QoS fee to the cellular operator .

For a better understanding of the present exemplary embodiment a high speed data service provided according to the QoS price policy of the cellular operator will be referred to herein as a QoS acceleration service. In other words the QoS acceleration service refers to providing a user with a service having a higher QoS than a default QoS designated for the user wherein the higher QoS is used within a limited time a limited area a limited amount of data and or a limited amount of money.

Referring to a screen of an MS provides video services watchable by a user according to genres at the request of the user. Sports Drama and Shows are genres of the video services according to the present exemplary embodiment. However the present invention is not limited thereto and genres of the video services may be any suitable genre of a video service. When the user selects the genre of Drama brief content information such as a preview screen a title and a broadcast date for each of watchable drama contents is displayed corresponding to the user s choice. If the user selects his or her desired drama content e.g. drama content titled Coronation Street a screen displays detailed information of the selected drama content e.g. a trailer and a synopsis or other similar information. The screen provides a first button shown as a VIEW button in for viewing the selected drama content with the default QoS available according to the QoS quota provided by the service provider or based on the user s service plan and a second button for viewing the selected drama content using an acceleration QoS determined by the cellular operator. Depending on the RAT and service name the second button may be labeled as 3G High Definition 3GHD when 3GPP is used as a RAT.

When the user clicks the second button on the screen the drama content is provided to the user according to the acceleration QoS provided by the cellular operator. In other words when the user clicks the second button on the screen the drama content is provided to the user at a high data rate corresponding to the acceleration QoS provided by the cellular operator.

Referring to a screen displays an information message for the QoS acceleration service that may be displayed when an application supporting the acceleration QoS is running or when the user clicks the second button as shown in . A bill for the QoS acceleration service may be separately issued without being included in the user s monthly plan or may be issued in any other suitable manner. Depending on whether the QoS plan is supported by the cellular operator the QoS plan for the QoS acceleration service may be provided as a trial QoS plan for a trial amount of time or data a volume based QoS plan for an amount of data a duration based QoS plan for an amount of time and a copy based QoS plan for an amount of content. The user may select one of the above various types of the QoS acceleration service or any other suitable types of the QoS acceleration service provided by the cellular operator. A screen shows a scenario where the user clicks a first button for viewing the content with the default QoS and thus viewing the content without the acceleration QoS.

Referring to a screen shows one scene of drama content which is being played using the default QoS. When the drama content is being played using the default QoS the screen may display a 3GHD button by which the user may activate the QoS acceleration service. The default QoS may be significantly affected by an amount of traffic transmitted on a network a number of users on the network network congestion or other similar factors or network conditions because it is provided as a default QoS supported by the service provider. The default QoS may undergo a buffering delay or a drop depending on the circumstances and network conditions. A screen shows a scenario where the drama content being provided with the default QoS is interrupted by a situation or event of the service provider. In this case the user may choose to use the QoS acceleration service so as to receive the drama content more quickly by immediately clicking a 3GHD button for the QoS acceleration service being provided on the screen .

Referring to when the drama content being provided using the default QoS is interrupted a screen provides an information message indicating that a fee for the QoS acceleration service is not included in the user s plan and a 3GHD button for the QoS acceleration service. In an alternative embodiment for a user s convenience a data usage window showing an amount of data used by the user may be displayed on the screen .

A screen displays an information message for the QoS acceleration service when the user clicks the 3GHD button . As illustrated the QoS acceleration service may be provided in any one of the trial the volume based the duration based and the copy based types and it will be assumed herein that the user has selected the volume based 100M QoS acceleration service providing 100 megabytes of data for a predetermined price.

Referring to a screen provides an information message for the fee of the 100M QoS acceleration service the user has selected. Accordingly the volume based 3GHD data volume corresponding to the QoS acceleration service is added to a user s data usage so as to supplement the time and volume included in the user s plan. A screen shows a scene of the drama content which is being played at high speed according to the QoS acceleration service. During the playback of the drama content a status bar for showing the remaining usage may be displayed according to the type of the QoS plan as discussed with respect to of the QoS acceleration service.

Referring to if the playback of the drama content selected by the user is terminated a screen displays an information message showing the remaining volume of the QoS acceleration service and a 3GHD button by which the user may check the detailed usage. If the user clicks the 3GHD button a data usage showing the used data volume or the remaining data volume with respect to the total volume of the QoS acceleration service may be provided to the user. If the remaining data volume or amount of time and number of copies corresponding to the QoS acceleration service exists a screen may provide a button shown as Use3GHD in for allowing the user to use the remaining data volume for the service content according to the acceleration QoS.

Referring to while the user is receiving the service content according to the QoS acceleration service a screen may provide an information message indicating an impending arrival or fulfilling of a QoS quota of the QoS acceleration service. In other words if the user s data usage impends at the QoS quota before all of the service content has been received the screen notifies the user of the impending QoS quota using the information message in advance and provides duration based and volume based buttons and by which the user may continue to receive the QoS acceleration service.

A screen shows an expiration of the QoS acceleration service due to the user s not extending the QoS acceleration service. If the playback of the service content is terminated an information message indicating expiration of the QoS acceleration service and a 3GHD button by which the user may extend the QoS acceleration service may be provided together. If the 3GHD button is clicked the information message for the QoS acceleration service as shown in may be provided to the user.

Referring to a user is a mobile subscriber using a MS or a UE such as a cellular phone a PDA a smart phone or other similar portable electronic devices and the MS includes a QoS acceleration application and an MS Operating System OS . The MS OS installs and runs the QoS acceleration application using various Application Programming Interfaces APIs such as a QoS payment API and a QoS initiation API and acoustically or visually notifies the user of the running or operation of the QoS acceleration application and of an alert provided by the mobile network.

The mobile network which the user accesses using his or her MS includes a RAN a P GW a Policy Charging and Rules Function PCRF a Subscriber Profile Repository SPR a Smart Network Enabling SNE server and a billing system .

The RAN supports a communication protocol used by the mobile network and is directly connected to the MS through a wireless interface such as a Radio Frequency RF interface. The P GW connects the RAN to a service provider providing the PDN and may be implemented in a 3GPP Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN . The PCRF includes a Policy Decision Function PDF and a Charging Rules Function CRF and provides service based QoS policy setting and flow based charging rule for the cellular operator and the SPR stores and manages subscriber profiles which are based on the cellular operator s policies. The SNE server manages and provides QoS based high speed data services and the billing system bills the user in conjunction with the SNE server .

According to the exemplary embodiment of Procedure 1 the user first downloads and installs the QoS acceleration application corresponding to the service provider and determines the QoS price policy of the cellular operator providing the QoS acceleration application during installation or running of the QoS acceleration application .

According to the exemplary embodiment of Procedure 2 the QoS acceleration application acquires an authorized token that the mobile network provides when the user pays the price of the QoS acceleration service which is called a QoS purchase.

According to the exemplary embodiment of Procedure 3 the MS OS configures an acceleration QoS based bearer to the mobile network for carrying service content of the QoS acceleration service. The bearer may be set up by a UE initiated bearer setup procedure or an application triggered network initiated bearer setup procedure determined according to the protocol supported by the mobile network.

According to the exemplary embodiment of Procedure 4 the SNE server determines whether expiration of the QoS acceleration service is impending according to the type of the QoS plan i.e. any one of the trial volume based duration based and copy based types of the QoS acceleration service selected by the user . If the expiration is impending the SNE server notifies the MS OS of the impending expiration of the QoS acceleration service.

According to the exemplary embodiment of Procedure 5 if the data volume the amount of time or the number of copies of the QoS acceleration service expires the SNE server notifies the MS OS of the termination of the authorized token for the QoS acceleration service.

The network structures and message flows for an operation of providing the QoS acceleration service according to the above procedures and exemplary embodiments will be described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which the arrows and blocks shown by dotted lines represent optional operations.

Referring to and Procedure 1 as discussed above if the user wants to know the available QoS plans and corresponding QoS price policy provided by the cellular operator for the QoS acceleration service then the user requests the QoS plan from the MS OS using the QoS acceleration application in step . The QoS plan includes the prices of the QoS acceleration service provided by the cellular operator and the prices are different according to the types of the QoS acceleration service provided in respective QoS plans. For example the QoS plan may include fees for 100 Megabits M and 1 Gigabit G in the volume based QoS plan fees for one hour and one day in the duration based QoS plan and fees for 5 copies and 10 copies in the copy based QoS plan. However the present invention is not limited thereto and a variety of suitable QoS plans may be offered by the cellular operator. For example according to another exemplary embodiment the QoS acceleration service may have a QoS plan that is a combination of at least two of the volume based duration based and copy based types of QoS plans. Examples of such a QoS plans are shown below.

Next in step the MS OS sends a QoS Plan Request message to the SNE server using Non Access Stratum NAS signaling. The QoS Plan Request message includes for example at least one of Application IDentification information App ID for identifying an application using the QoS acceleration application a user IDentifier ID for identifying the MS that the user uses Plan Request Indication for indicating a request for the QoS plan and any other suitable or relevant information.

The App ID may include for example an application type i.e. an OS type an application name and an application version. The App ID may be used by the cellular operator in order to determine whether it will permit the QoS acceleration service and to deliver predefined QoS parameters as the cellular operator determines whether it will enable or disable use of the QoS acceleration feature of the application. Examples of the App ID are shown below.

The user ID is assigned such that the mobile network may uniquely identify the user and may be any one of an International Mobile Subscriber Identifier IMSI a Network Access Identifier NAI and a Universal Resource Location URL . The IMSI may include a combination of a Mobile Network Code MNC a Mobile Country Code MCC and a Mobile Subscriber Identification Number MSIN . Examples of the user ID are shown below.

In step in response to the QoS Plan Request message the SNE server sends a QoS Plan Response message including the stored information about the QoS plan to the MS OS . As described above the QoS plan information includes respective prices of different QoS acceleration service types.

Referring to and Procedure 2 as discussed above in step the user selects a type of QoS plan and fee depending on the price policies of QoS plans displayed on a screen of the MS and requests purchase of the QoS acceleration service from the MS OS according to the selected QoS plan. In step the MS OS sends a QoS Purchase Request message to the SNE server . The QoS Purchase Request message includes at least one of an App ID a user ID and information about the selected QoS plan.

In step the SNE server in conjunction with the billing system determines whether the fee for the selected QoS plan has been paid. If the fee has been paid then in step the PCRF inserts a subscriber profile of the user into a policy DataBase DB of the SPR thereby recording the purchase of the QoS plan by the user .

In step the SNE server sends a Token Generation Request message to the PCRF to acquire a token needed to authorize provision of the service corresponding to the QoS plan. In step the SNE server receives from the PCRF the token generated in response to the request and the SNE server provides the token to the SPR . The token includes for example a unique identifier indicating the authorization of the provision of the service corresponding to the QoS plan a time stamp indicating a start time and an end time for which the authorized bearer may be maintained authorized data and other similar information related to the authorization of the provision of the service. The token may be used by the PCRF to authorize a setup request in the UE initiated bearer setup procedure.

In step in response to the QoS Purchase Request message the SNE server sends the MS OS a QoS Purchase Response message including at least one of a result of accounting success message a message to user the generated token a QoS quota based on the QoS plan and optional QoS information.

The QoS quota may include at least one of or a combination of at least two of a volume based quota a duration based quota and a copy based quota depending on the type of the QoS acceleration service. Examples of the QoS quota are shown below.

The QoS information includes at least one of QoS parameters e.g. a QoS Class Identifier QCI a Maximum Bit Rate MBR Guaranteed Bit Rate GBR an Allocation and Retention Priority ARP and an IP packet filtering condition required by the SNE server for individual QoS acceleration applications.

The QCI which is a parameter for QoS configuration previously made by the cellular operator may be for example a scheduling weight a permitted threshold a queue management threshold or other similar variables used for QoS configuration. The GBR is a bit rate that can be provided by the bearer and is limited by the MBR.

In step in response to the QoS Purchase Response message the MS OS notifies the user of the success or failure in purchasing the QoS acceleration service by displaying a message on a screen of the user s MS. For example upon receiving an information message for the user from the SNE server the MS OS may display the received information message on the screen.

The QoS purchase request may be rejected by the SNE server if the QoS acceleration application is not authorized to use the QoS acceleration service according to the application policy of the cellular operator or if the user is not authorized to use the QoS acceleration service according to the subscriber policy of the user or if the SNE server is not able to determine whether the fee has been paid or determines that the fee has not been paid in conjunction with the billing system . Although not illustrated in this case the SNE server sends a notification message indicating the rejection of the QoS acceleration service to the user through the MS OS in the QoS Purchase Response message. Furthermore according to another exemplary embodiment even when the QoS acceleration service is rejected the QoS acceleration application may provide the data service using the default QoS based default bearer.

Referring to and Procedure 3 as discussed above in step the user triggers a QoS acceleration service by clicking a 3GHD button for triggering use of QoS using the QoS acceleration application . Next one of steps or is performed wherein in step the MS OS sets up a bearer capable of supporting the QoS acceleration service by performing the UE initiated bearer setup procedure with the P GW or in step by performing the network initiated bearer setup procedure with the SNE server when the QoS acceleration service is triggered. The service content from the service provider is delivered to the MS OS through the bearer that has been set up and the QoS acceleration application plays the service content so that the user may view it.

In setting up the bearer reference may be made to QoS parameters such as a QCI a GBR a Traffic Flow Template TFT and other similar QoS parameters. During the bearer setup procedure the QoS acceleration application may acquire QoS information such as screen size and codec information from the service provider via Session Initiation Protocol SIP signaling or Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP signaling and the MS OS converts the QoS information into QoS parameters such as the TFT the QCI the GBR MBR and the ARP suitable for the 3G network. According to another exemplary embodiment if the cellular operator already knows the performance of the QoS acceleration application the cellular operator may store these QoS parameters in a DB of the SNE server in advance. According to another exemplary embodiment during a download of the QoS acceleration application a QoS profile representing appropriate QoS parameters may be included in a downloaded file. Next in step the service provider notifies the QoS Acceleration Application of the running of the QoS acceleration service.

Referring to and Procedure 4 as disclosed above it is assumed that the QoS acceleration service is provided based on the data volume. The P GW continuously monitors a usage of the data delivered on the bearer that is set up for the QoS acceleration service and determines whether the monitored data usage approaches a QoS quota for each user for the bearer. To this end the SNE server notifies the P GW of the QoS quota based on the QoS plan allocated for the QoS acceleration application in advance i.e. prior to the start of the QoS acceleration service or records the QoS quota in a subscriber profile of the SPR in advance. If the amount of the data usage reaches a threshold predetermined to be less than the QoS quota the P GW reports an impending expiration of the QoS acceleration service to the SNE server in step .

In step the SNE server inserts at least one of an Alert message the remaining QoS quota and an optional QoS plan into a QoS Expiration Interim Alert message and sends it to the MS OS . For example the QoS plan may be included in the QoS Expiration Interim Alert message if the QoS plan is changed. In step the MS OS sends a User Alert message to the user through the QoS acceleration application in response to the QoS Expiration Interim Alert message. The user may review the User Alert message and perform additional operations such a purchase of additional amounts of the QoS acceleration service and termination of the QoS acceleration service.

According to another exemplary embodiment if the QoS acceleration service is provided according to the duration of time or the number of copies the MS OS records the User Alert message in the QoS acceleration application even though the QoS acceleration application is disabled. In such a case the MS OS records the User Alert message upon recognizing that the duration of time has elapsed or that the number of copies received using the QoS acceleration service has reached the predetermined QoS quota. Then when enabled later by the user s action the QoS acceleration application may show the User Alert message to the user thereby introducing an appropriate following user s action.

Referring to the user requests download of the QoS acceleration application supporting the QoS acceleration service from the MS OS in step and the MS OS requests the QoS acceleration application from a QoS acceleration Application Download Server APP DS and downloads the QoS acceleration application in step . Depending on its implementation the downloaded QoS acceleration application includes at least one of App ID permissions used for the QoS acceleration service and QoS Payment Enabled information indicating the possibility of paying a fee for the QoS acceleration service.

The MS OS determines whether a fee for the QoS acceleration service is payable according to the downloaded QoS acceleration application in step and determines in step whether the feature i.e. use of a QoS API used for the downloaded QoS acceleration application is permitted by the cellular operator. Steps and are optional according to an implementation of the present exemplary embodiment.

In step the MS OS sends a QoS Plan Request message including at least one of App ID user ID and plan request indication to the SNE server or alternatively to the APP DS which may be included in the SNE server . In step the SNE server determines whether the cellular operator may support the QoS acceleration service for the QoS acceleration application corresponding to the App ID in response to the QoS Plan Request message and may determine whether to provide the QoS plan only when the cellular operator supports the QoS acceleration service. However the present invention is not limited thereto and according to another exemplary embodiment the SNE server may permit the QoS acceleration service by default without step .

In step the SNE server sends a QoS Plan Response message including the QoS plan to the MS OS . The QoS Plan Response message may further include Authorized information indicating the authorization of the QoS acceleration application and QoS Permission off information indicating the permission of the QoS acceleration service.

In step the MS OS may terminate the QoS acceleration application until running of the QoS acceleration service is requested. In step the MS OS or the QoS acceleration application shows the QoS price policy corresponding to the QoS plan to the user upon completion of the download during running of the QoS acceleration application or at the user s request thereby supporting the user s selection of the QoS acceleration service.

Referring to in step the user reviews the QoS price policy shown on the screen of the running QoS acceleration application and selects a purchase button corresponding to the QoS acceleration service corresponding to user s desired QoS plan. Upon receiving a purchase request for the QoS acceleration service in step the QoS acceleration application invokes a QoS purchase API and sends a purchase request based on the selected QoS plan to the MS OS in step .

In step the MS OS sends a QoS Purchase Request message including an App ID a user ID and a selected QoS plan to the SNE server . Depending on an implementation of the SNE server the SNE server authorizes the purchase of the QoS acceleration service by the user by performing at least one of steps through in response to the QoS Purchase Request message.

Specifically in step the SNE server searches the policy DB of the SPR see and determines that the QoS acceleration application corresponding to the App ID has been permitted by the cellular operator and is executable. In step the SNE server in conjunction with the billing system determines whether a fee for the selected QoS plan has been paid. In step the SNE server adds a subscriber profile of the user to the policy DB of the SPR so that the user may use the QoS acceleration service based on the selected QoS plan.

In step the SNE server requests the PCRF to generate a token used to authorize provision of the QoS acceleration service based on the QoS plan. In step the PCRF generates an authorized token in response to the request and authorizes the user . In step the PCRF sends information indicating the authorization of the user to the SNE server along with the generated token.

In step in response to the QoS Purchase Request message the SNE server sends the MS OS a QoS Purchase Response message including the purchase result i.e. a successful payment message the generated token and the QoS quota based on the QoS plan. The QoS Purchase Response message may further include information on a predetermined lifetime of the token and QoS permission information.

In step the MS OS authorizes the QoS acceleration service for the QoS acceleration application and stores the QoS quota and the token having the predetermined lifetime. In step the MS OS sends a response to the QoS acceleration service using the QoS purchase API. In step the QoS acceleration application notifies the user of the successful completion of the purchase of the QoS acceleration service.

Referring to it is assumed that a bearer is set up by the UE initiated bearer setup procedure during running of the QoS acceleration service. If the user requests running of the QoS acceleration service i.e. playback of service content based on the QoS acceleration service in step the QoS acceleration application performs interactions for communications with the service provider see which is a peer node and acquires QoS related information from the service provider through negotiation in step . For example in the case of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP the QoS related information includes codec information an address port number of the peer node bandwidth and other similar information. As another example in the case of Video on Demand VoD the QoS related information includes the address port number of the peer node bandwidth resolution and other similar VoD information.

In step the QoS acceleration application invokes a QoS execution API to set up a bearer based on the acceleration QoS. During invocation of the QoS execution API QoS information such as a TFT a GBR MBR and an ARP is provided to the MS OS .

In step the MS OS sends a Bearer Resource Allocation Request message to a Mobility Management Entity MME connected to the RAN which may be an Evolved Universal Terrestrial RAN E UTRAN in a 3GPP LTE network through NAS signaling. The Bearer Resource Allocation Request message may include a QCI a GBR and a TFT for the acceleration QoS.

In step the MME requests setup of an acceleration QoS based bearer by sending a Bearer Resource Command message to the P GW through a Serving Gateway S GW . In step the P GW sends indication of an IP Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session modification to the PCRF . The PCRF authorizes the request for the QoS acceleration service in response to the indication in step and sends an event report indicating the authorization of the QoS acceleration service to the SNE server in step . The SNE server records an event corresponding to an event report in step and responds to the PCRF with an Acknowledgement Ack including new service information in step .

In step the PCRF sends an Ack of the IP CAN session modification to the P GW . In step the P GW requests update of the bearer by sending an Update Bearer Request message to the MME through the S GW . In step the MME sends a Bearer Modify Request message for an update of the bearer to the MS OS . In step the MS OS responds to the MME with a Bearer Modify Response message.

In step the MME informs the P GW of the update of the bearer by sending an Update Bearer Response message to the P GW through the S GW . In step the P GW sends a Provision Ack message to the PCRF . In step the PCRF sends a Notification of Bearer Level Event message indicating the update of the bearer to the SNE server . In step the SNE server responds with an Ack.

In step the MS OS changes a state of the bearer for the QoS acceleration service to an Enabled state after completing the modification of the bearer by sending the Bearer Modify Response message in step invokes a related API sets up a bearer and informs the QoS acceleration application of availability thereof. In step the QoS acceleration application shows to the user an information message indicating the executability of the QoS acceleration service.

Referring to the SNE server detects an impending expiration of a QoS token i.e. a QoS quota will soon be at a predetermined threshold in step . For example when the QoS acceleration service is provided based on the data volume the SNE server detects an impending QoS quota based on an event report from the PCRF . Alternatively when the QoS acceleration service is provided based on the time duration the SNE server monitors whether the QoS quota is impending by counting the time for which the QoS acceleration service has been run.

In step the SNE server inserts at least one of an alert message the remaining QoS quota and an optional QoS plan or promotion plan into a QoS Expiration Interim Alert message and sends it to the MS OS . The MS OS responds to the message with an Ack in step and then invokes a related API and informs the QoS acceleration application of the impending QoS quota in step . In step the QoS acceleration application inquires of the user whether the user will purchase additional QoS acceleration service by notifying the user of an information message indicating the impending expiration of the QoS token and of the optional remaining QoS quota. If the user purchases the additional QoS acceleration service then Procedure 2 as shown in will be performed again.

Referring to it is assumed that a volume based QoS acceleration service is provided. In step the P GW measures data usage by monitoring packets carried on a bearer that is set up for the QoS acceleration service and sends a QoS Expiration message to the PCRF if the measured data usage has approaches the QoS quota determined for the QoS acceleration service. Optionally the QoS quota may further include the data usage of the QoS acceleration service.

In step the PCRF sends the SNE server an event report indicating the expiration of the QoS quota. The SNE server reviews the expiration of the QoS quota by determining the QoS quota assigned to the subscriber and the application using the QoS acceleration service in step and responds to the PCRF with an Ack in step . According to another exemplary embodiment the SNE server may determine that the QoS quota has expired without receiving any event report from the PCRF if the lifetime of the QoS token for the QoS acceleration service has expired if the time duration allocated for the QoS acceleration service has elapsed or if the number of copies allocated for the QoS acceleration service have been all used.

In step the SNE server sends a QoS Expiration message to the MS OS . The QoS Expiration message may include information indicating the disablement of the QoS permission for the QoS acceleration application . In step the MS OS disables the QoS permission so that the QoS acceleration application may not be used. In step the MS OS sends the SNE server a QoS Expiration Ack message indicating the successful disablement of the QoS acceleration service.

In step the MS OS invokes a related API and informs the QoS acceleration application of the expiration of the QoS acceleration service. In step the QoS acceleration application outputs an information message indicating the termination of the QoS acceleration service and may optionally inquire of the user whether he or she will purchase further amounts the QoS acceleration service.

In if the QoS acceleration service is provided based on the volume the PCRF may manage the subscriber information and the price and traffic information in conjunction with a Policy and Charging Enforcement Function PCEF in order to determine whether the data usage arrives at the QoS quota based on the QoS plan of the QoS acceleration service.

Referring to the SPR detects a change in a related subscriber profile according to the QoS price policy i.e. QoS plan for the QoS acceleration service provided by the cellular operator in step . Next the SPR informs the PCRF of the change in the subscriber profile by sending a Profile Update message to the PCRF in step and receives a Response message indicating the normal reception of the Profile Update message from the PCRF in step . The subscriber profile may include or indicate the QoS quota of each type of the QoS plan based on the QoS plan.

In step the PCRF stores the subscriber profile and determines a Policy and Charging Control PCC rule based on the subscriber profile. In step the PCRF sends the determined PCC rule to a PCEF using a PCRF initiated IP CAN session modification procedure. The PCC rule includes a QoS plan based volume threshold that is set by the PCRF .

If a bearer for the QoS acceleration service is set up and packets are transmitted over the bearer then the PCEF determines whether the data usage measured by the P GW reaches the threshold and sends a usage report to the PCRF along with an alert including a threshold interim report if the measured data usage has reached the threshold. The PCRF may send a threshold interim alert to the SNE server according to the usage report from the PCEF as described above.

The SPR stores user s usage monitoring related information and the PCRF receives information about the entire amount data usage permitted for each PDN and or user from the SPR . Optionally upon receiving the usage report from the PCEF the PCRF may provide the PCEF with a new volume threshold determined by subtracting the actual usage which is based on the usage report from the permitted data usage. If the bearer for the QoS acceleration service is terminated the PCRF stores information about the remaining usage in the SPR .

The above described embodiments may be implemented in the form of program commands executable by various computer means and may be recorded in a non transient computer readable recording medium. The non transient computer readable recording medium may include program commands data files and data structures separately or in combination. The program commands recorded in the non transient computer readable recording medium may be program commands designed and configured specially for the present invention or available program commands known to those skilled in the art of computer software.

Furthermore the above described embodiments may be implemented by mounting a memory device storing program codes for performing the operations in the SNE server the PCRF the MS and other similar elements. In other words the SNE server the PCRF and the MS may perform the above described operations by reading the program codes stored in the memory device and may execute the read program codes by a processor or a Central Processing Unit CPU . Specifically all or at least one of the SNE server the PCRF and the MS are configured to perform operations of at least one of the above described embodiments.

Referring to when the exemplary embodiment of operates as an SNE server a memory stores a QoS plan based on the QoS price policy of the cellular operator parameters for supporting the QoS acceleration service and program codes. Additionally in such a case a transceiver communicates with an MS OS through a NAS and communicates with network elements such as a PCRF an SPR and a billing system through a predetermined interface. A controller provides an MS with the QoS plan stored in the memory in response to a request from the MS OS provides the MS with a QoS token acquired through the PCRF by controlling the transceiver upon a QoS purchase request supports a connection of a bearer for the QoS acceleration service and notifies the MS OS of the impending QoS expiration or the QoS expiration.

When the exemplary embodiment of operates as a PCRF the memory stores parameters for supporting the QoS acceleration service and program codes and the transceiver communicates with network elements related to the QoS acceleration service such as the P GW the SPR and the SNE server. The controller generates a token for the QoS acceleration service upon a request from the SNE server provides the generated token to the SNE server supports a connection of the bearer for the QoS acceleration service monitors a data usage through the P GW and reports an impending QoS expiration to the SNE server if the amount of data usage has reached a threshold for the QoS quota.

When the structure operates as an MS the memory stores a QoS acceleration application and parameters generated by an operation of the QoS acceleration application and the transceiver receives service content through a RAN and communicates with the SNE server through the NAS. The controller runs the QoS acceleration application acquires a QoS plan from the SNE server upon a request of the user stores the acquired QoS plan in the memory purchases a token for the QoS acceleration service and plays the service content received over an acceleration QoS based bearer so that the user may view it. The controller may inform the user of the impending QoS expiration or the termination of the QoS acceleration service by running the QoS acceleration application.

As is apparent from the foregoing description for specific service content desired by the user the present invention provides fast data service using the cellular operator rather than the service provider thereby satisfying diverse data consumption needs of users.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

