---

title: Balancing mask loading
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques for balancing mask loading are provided herein. In some embodiments, a dummy mask assignment is assigned to a dummy within a mask layout based on an area of a polygon within the mask layout. In some embodiments, the dummy mask comprising the dummy mask assignment is inserted in the mask layout. In some embodiments, a window is created such that dummies within the window receive dummy mask assignments. In some embodiments, a halo is created such that the area of the polygon is determined based on the halo. Additionally, in some examples, the window and halo are shifted around the mask layout. In this manner, balanced mask loading is provided, thus enhancing a yield associated with the mask layout, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751978&OS=08751978&RS=08751978
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08751978
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20121019
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 695 651 filed on Aug. 31 2012 entitled BALANCING MASK LOADING at least some of which is incorporated herein.

Generally multiple patterning lithography MPL uses multiple masks to print layout geometries for a mask layout. Accordingly a mask of the multiple masks comprises corresponding polygons for example. Mask loading is a distribution of polygon area across the multiple masks. However an uneven distribution or unbalanced mask loading is associated with process variation and a low yield for example. Additionally mask loading is generally addressed at a design phase and it is often not possible for a designer to consider mask loading while maintaining layout quality or following design rules.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Generally multiple patterning lithography MPL is associated with one or more masks used to print layout geometries for a mask layout. As an example a mask of the one or more masks comprises one or more polygons. Additionally a polygon of the one or more polygons is used to print at least a portion of the layout geometries associated with the mask layout. However when polygon distribution is uneven across the one or more masks process variation and a low yield may occur. Accordingly one or more techniques for balancing mask loading are provided herein. In some embodiments a mask layout is received. As an example the mask layout is associated with a first mask and a second mask. Additionally the mask layout comprises one or more polygons respective polygons comprise a mask assignment to at least one of the first mask the second mask or an undetermined assignment. In this example a first polygon of the one or more polygons comprises a mask assignment to the first mask. In some embodiments a first polygon area corresponding to the first mask is determined based on the first polygon comprising the mask assignment to the first mask. Accordingly a first dummy mask assignment is assigned to a first dummy of one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the first polygon area. Generally the first dummy mask assignment comprises at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or an undetermined assignment. In this example the first dummy mask assignment for the first dummy is assigned to the second mask at least because the first polygon comprises the mask assignment to the first mask. In other words the first dummy mask assignment for the first dummy is assigned to the second mask to compensate for mask loading based on the first polygon area and the mask assignment of the first polygon. In some embodiments if the first polygon area is ten units and respective dummies are one unit of area ten dummies are assigned dummy mask assignments to the second mask for example. In this way mask loading is balanced within a semiconductor processing environment.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In some embodiments the dummy is inserted based on a partial mask assignment. A partial mask assignment is a scenario where not all of the polygons of a mask are assigned to a mask. For example if the first polygon comprises an undetermined assignment and the second polygon comprises a mask assignment to a first mask the mask layout of mask is associated with a partial mask assignment. In some embodiments where a mask layout comprises a partial mask assignment the dummy comprises at least one of a mask assignment to one of one or more masks of the mask layout or an undetermined assignment. For another example if the first polygon and the second polygon both comprise an undetermined assignment dummy is assigned an undetermined assignment. In some embodiments if the first polygon and the second polygon both comprise the undetermined assignment dummy is randomly assigned to at least one of the one or more masks. In other embodiments dummy is assigned to at least one of the one or more masks such that the mask layout results in an even distribution of dummies among the one or more masks.

In other embodiments the dummy is inserted based on a full mask assignment. A full mask assignment is a scenario where all of the polygons of a mask are assigned to a mask. For example if the first polygon comprises a mask assignment to a first mask and the second polygon comprises a mask assignment to a second mask the mask layout of mask is associated with a full mask assignment. In some embodiments where a mask layout comprises a full mask assignment the dummy comprises a mask assignment to one of one or more masks of the mask layout. For example if the first polygon comprises a mask assignment to a first mask of the one or more masks and the second polygon comprises a mask assignment to a second mask of the one or more masks dummy is assigned a dummy mask assignment to at least one of the first mask or the second mask.

In some embodiments the dummy is inserted and assigned a dummy mask assignment concurrently based on a balance first approach as will be described in further detail in . In other embodiments the dummy is inserted at a first time and assigned a dummy mask assignment at a second time after the first time based on a balance last approach as will be described in further detail in .

In some embodiments a third polygon area corresponding to the third mask is determined based on the sixth polygon comprising a mask assignment to the third mask the first halo at the first location and the first halo size. In this example the third polygon area is the area of the sixth polygon at least because the sixth polygon is encompassed within the first halo which shares the same perimeter as the first window . As an example the third polygon area comprises two units of area.

In some embodiments the mask layout of is associated with one or more masks. For example the mask layout is associated with a first mask a second mask and a third mask. Therefore is an example of a mask layout associated with a full mask assignment. Additionally it is seen that is an example of a balance first approach at least because dummies are inserted at the first window rather than throughout the entire mask layout . In some embodiments the mask layout is associated with one or more polygons. For example the sixth polygon of the mask layout is associated with the third mask such as the third mask of . In other words the sixth polygon comprises a mask assignment to the third mask of the one or more masks associated with the mask layout . Accordingly it is seen that the sixth polygon occupies two units of area associated with the third mask within the first halo. In some embodiments dummies are inserted to facilitate balancing of mask loading based on the first window and the first halo. For example sixteen dummies are inserted in the first window . A dummy of the sixteen dummies comprises one quarter of a unit of area. For example dummy and dummy respectively comprise 0.25 units of area. In some embodiments a dummy mask assignment is assigned to a dummy of one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the third polygon area the first window at the first location and the first window size. For example eight of the sixteen dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the first mask and the other eight of the sixteen dummies are assigned to a dummy mask assignment to the second mask at least because the third polygon area comprises two units of area associated with the third mask. For example dummy is assigned to the second mask and dummy is assigned to the first mask. It will be appreciated that an area associated with the eight dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask such as dummy is equal to two units of area such as the third polygon area associated with the sixth polygon . Similarly an area associated with the other eight dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask such as dummy is also equal to two units of area. Accordingly in this example a dummy mask assignment comprises at least one of an assignment to the first mask or an assignment to the second mask. Therefore the insertion of dummies or dummy pattern insertion within the first window facilitates balancing of mask loading for example. In this way mask loading is balanced within a semiconductor processing environment.

It will be appreciated that dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a dotted fill pattern comprise the dummy assignment to the second mask. Similarly dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a striped fill pattern such as the striped fill pattern of dummy comprise the dummy assignment to the first mask.

It will be appreciated that is an example of a balance last approach at least because the one or more dummies are inserted in mask layout prior to balancing mask loading for example. In other words one or more dummies are inserted throughout the mask layout during a first stage and assigned respective dummy mask assignments during a second stage as will be described in further detail in . In some embodiments is an example of a mask layout with dummy insertion prior to dummy mask assignment or balancing mask loading. For example the one or more dummies are inserted within the first window such as dummy or dummy and outside of the first window such as dummy . In other embodiments such as a balance first approach the one or more dummies are inserted and assigned respective dummy mask assignments concurrently. Additionally in some embodiments dummy insertion and dummy mask assignments are enabled merely within the first window . In other embodiments dummy insertion and dummy mask assignments are enabled within the first window a second window a third window etc. Accordingly the one or more dummies are generally inserted within the first window when following a balance first approach such as the approach illustrated in . In some embodiments the first window is shifted from a first location to a second location as will be described in further detail in .

In some embodiments the first halo facilitates determination of a polygon area a first polygon area a second polygon area a third polygon area etc. For example a set of polygons sharing a mask assignment to a same mask is analyzed within the first halo. In other words merely a portion of the set of polygons sharing the mask assignment within the first halo is used to determine a polygon area. In the mask layout comprises one or more polygons associated with at least one of a first mask a second mask or a third mask. For example a sixth polygon of the one or more polygons comprises a mask assignment to the third mask. Additionally the sixth polygon is encompassed by the first halo. In some embodiments the third polygon area is determined based on the sixth polygon comprising the mask assignment to the third mask the first halo at the first location and the first halo size. For example polygons within the first halo are analyzed to determine a number of different mask assignments. In this example since merely the sixth polygon is encompassed by the first halo the number of different mask assignments is one. Accordingly the mask assignment of the sixth polygon is an assignment to the third mask. In some embodiments one or more polygons encompassed by the first halo are analyzed to determine a set of one or more polygons sharing a mask assignment to a same mask. For example if another polygon is encompassed by the first halo and the other polygon comprises a mask assignment to the third mask the sixth polygon and the other polygon are in the set of polygons associated with the third mask. Accordingly a polygon area a first polygon area a second polygon area a third polygon area etc. is determined for respective sets of polygons. In the example illustrated in the first halo merely encompasses the sixth polygon associated with the third mask or comprising a mask assignment to the third mask. Therefore the sixth polygon is in a set of polygons associated with the third mask and a polygon area is determined for the set of polygons corresponding to the third mask. In this example the polygon area corresponding to the third mask is determined to comprise two units of area.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments one or more sets of polygons respectively associated with one or more different masks are encompassed within the first halo as will be described in further detail in . Additionally it will be appreciated that the first halo comprises an area where the polygon area is determined. For example if a first portion of a polygon is encompassed by the first halo and a second portion of the polygon is not encompassed by the first halo merely the first portion of the polygon encompassed by the first halo is used to determine the polygon area. In other words portions of polygons not encompassed by the first halo are not considered for calculation of the polygon area for example. In some embodiments the first halo is shifted from a first location to a second location as will be described in further detail in or for example.

In some embodiments one or more polygon areas associated with one or more sets of polygons encompassed within the first halo are determined. In some embodiments respective sets of polygons are associated with different masks. For example the first halo encompasses one or more polygons. In the first halo merely encompasses a sixth polygon . Additionally the sixth polygon comprises a mask assignment to a third mask. It will be appreciated that in other examples the first halo encompasses multiple polygons. In some embodiments a number of different mask assignments is determined for the one or more polygons encompassed within the first halo. Additionally a number of sets of polygons encompassed within the first halo are formed based on the number of different mask assignments for the polygons encompassed within the halo. For example if the first halo encompasses a first polygon comprising a mask assignment to a first mask a second polygon comprising a mask assignment to a second mask a third polygon comprising a mask assignment to a third mask a fourth polygon comprising a mask assignment to the first mask and a fifth polygon comprising a mask assignment to the second mask the number of different mask assignments is three at least because the first halo encompasses polygons comprising mask assignments to at least one of the first mask the second mask and the third mask. Accordingly three sets of polygons are formed. For example a first set of polygons comprises the first polygon and the fourth polygon and the polygons of the first set of polygons are associated with a mask assignment to the first mask. Additionally a second set of polygons comprises the second polygon and the fifth polygon and the polygons of the second set of polygons are associated with a mask assignment to the second mask. A third set of polygons comprises the third polygon associated with a mask assignment to the third mask. In this example a first polygon area a second polygon area and a third polygon area are determined. According to some aspects the first polygon area corresponds to the first mask the second polygon area corresponds to the second mask and the third polygon area corresponds to the third mask. For example the first polygon area comprises an area equal to a sum of areas for respective polygons of the first set of polygons. In this example the first polygon area is an area of the first polygon plus an area of the fourth polygon. Similarly the second polygon area comprises an area equal to a sum of areas for respective polygons of the second set of polygons. In this example the second polygon area is an area of the second polygon plus an area of the fifth polygon. The third polygon area comprises an area equal to a sum of areas for respective polygons of the third set of polygons. In this example the third polygon area is an area of the third polygon.

In some embodiments a polygon area is determined based on a polygon comprising a mask assignment to a mask a halo at a location and a halo size. For example in a polygon area such as a third polygon area is determined for a sixth polygon . The third polygon area of the sixth polygon is determined based on the sixth polygon comprising a mask assignment to a third mask. For example the third polygon area is determined for all polygons comprising the mask assignment to the third mask encompassed within the first halo. Additionally the third polygon area is determined based on a first halo at a first location and a first halo size at least because the third polygon area is determined by analyzing polygons located within the first halo. It will be appreciated that if the first halo encompasses a first potion of a polygon and not a second portion of a polygon merely the first portion of the polygon encompassed within the first halo is used to determine a polygon area associated with the polygon.

In some embodiments one or more dummy mask assignments are assigned to one or more dummies encompassed within the first window . For example the one or more dummy mask assignments are based on a polygon area the first window a location of the first window or the first window at a first location and a first window size. As an example if a first halo encompasses a first polygon area associated with a first mask comprising ten units of area a second polygon area associated with a second mask comprising seven units of area a third polygon area associated with a third mask comprising four units of area and one or more dummies associated with a total dummy area of nine units of area a first set of the one or more dummies is assigned a dummy mask assignment to the second mask and a second set of the one or more dummies is assigned a dummy mask assignment to the third mask. In some embodiments the first set of the one or more dummies is associated with a dummy area of three units of area at least because the second polygon area comprises seven units of area such that the three units of area associated with the first set of the one or more dummies coupled with the second polygon area balances the second polygon area with the first polygon area at least because the area associated with the first set of the one or more dummies and the second polygon area is associated with the second mask and the area comprises a sum equal to ten units of area such as the ten units of area of the first polygon area thus balancing the loading of the mask with respect to the second polygon area and the first polygon area. In some embodiments the second set of the one or more dummies is associated with a dummy area of six units of area at least because the third polygon area comprises four units of area such that the six units of area associated with the second set of the one or more dummies coupled with the third polygon area balances the third polygon area with the first polygon area at least because the area associated with the second set of the one or more dummies and the third polygon area is associated with the third mask and the area comprises a sum equal to ten units of area such as the ten units of area of the first polygon area thus balancing the loading of the mask with respect to the third polygon area and the first polygon area.

In some embodiments the one or more dummy mask assignments are based on multiple polygon areas such as a first polygon area a second polygon area a third polygon area etc. In some embodiments the one or more dummy mask assignments are based on a largest polygon area. Accordingly one or more dummy mask assignments for the first set of the one or more dummies are based on the second polygon area and the first polygon area at least because the first polygon area is the largest polygon area and the first set of the one or more dummies compensates for a difference between the first polygon area and the second polygon area. Similarly one or more dummy mask assignments for the second set of the one or more dummies are based on the third polygon area and the first polygon area at least because the first polygon area is a largest polygon area and the second set of the one or more dummies compensates for a difference between the first polygon area and the third polygon area.

In some embodiments the one or more dummies encompassed within the first halo are associated with a total dummy area such that units of area associated with the one or more dummies is not sufficient to balance respective polygon areas. Accordingly a dummy mask assignment is assigned to a dummy based on a total number of dummies or a total dummy area in such a scenario for example. In some embodiments if the total dummy area

In some embodiments the one or more dummies encompassed within the first halo are associated with a total dummy area

It will be appreciated that is an example of a balance last approach at least because the one or more dummies are inserted in mask layout prior to balancing mask loading for example. In some embodiments is an example of a mask layout after an iteration of a dummy mask assignment or balancing mask loading within a first window . In some embodiments the mask layout of is received. For example the mask layout comprises the sixth polygon and one or more other polygons. In some embodiments the sixth polygon comprises a mask assignment to a third mask and other polygons of the mask layout comprise a mask assignment to at least one of a first mask or a second mask. For example the mask layout is associated with the first mask the second mask and the third mask. Additionally a first window is created at a first location. In some embodiments when the first window is at the first location the sixth polygon is encompassed within the first window . Additionally the first window comprises a first window shape a first window size and a location such as the first location. In some embodiments the first window is a first halo. In some examples the third polygon area corresponds to the third mask.

In some embodiments the third polygon area is determined based on the sixth polygon comprising the mask assignment to the third mask the first halo at the first location and a first halo size. In other embodiments the third polygon area is determined based on a set of polygons comprising a same mask assignment encompassed within the first halo. It will be appreciated that the set of polygons encompassed within the first halo vary based on a location of the first halo and the first halo size for example. In the sixth polygon is encompassed within the first halo and is determined to comprise two units of area for example. Accordingly the third polygon area is determined to comprise two units of area at least because the set of polygons encompassed within the first halo merely comprises the sixth polygon .

In some embodiments a dummy mask assignment is assigned to a dummy of one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the third polygon area the first window a location of the first window and the first window size. In other embodiments the dummy mask assignment is determined based on an area associated with a mask or an area associated with a mask calculated within the first window . For example the dummy mask assignment is determined based on balancing an area associated with a first mask with an area associated with a second mask. Accordingly if an area associated with a first mask is greater than an area associated with a second mask the dummy is assigned a dummy mask assignment to the second mask and the area associated with the second mask increases at least due to an area of the dummy comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask. It will be appreciated that the dummy mask assignment will vary based on a location of the first window and the first window size for example. In other embodiments the dummy mask assignment varies based on the third polygon area or a polygon area. In the third polygon area is two units of area for example. In the first window encompasses sixteen dummies and respective dummies comprise 0.25 units of area or a quarter of a unit of area. Therefore an area associated with eight of the sixteen dummies is two units of area similar to the two units of area of the third polygon area. Similarly an area associated with the other eight dummies of the sixteen dummies is two units of area. Accordingly eight of the sixteen dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the first mask and the other eight of the sixteen dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the second mask. Therefore an area associated with the first mask is two units of area relative to the first window at least because a sum of areas of polygons and dummies associated with the first mask is two units of area due to the eight dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask. Similarly an area associated with the second mask is two units of area relative to the first window at least because a sum of areas of polygons and dummies associated with the second mask is two units of area due to the other eight dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask.

In some embodiments dummy is assigned to the second mask and dummy is assigned to the first mask. It will be appreciated that dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a dotted fill pattern comprise the dummy assignment to the second mask. Similarly dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a striped fill pattern such as the striped fill pattern of dummy comprise the dummy assignment to the first mask.

In some embodiments a first polygon area a second polygon area and a third polygon area are determined based on a first set of polygons encompassed within the first halo a second set of polygons encompassed within the first halo and a third set of polygons encompassed within the first halo. For example the first set of polygons comprises polygons encompassed within the first halo comprising a mask assignment to the first mask. For example the second set of polygons comprises polygons encompassed within the first halo comprising a mask assignment to the second mask. For example the third set of polygons comprises polygons encompassed within the first halo comprising a mask assignment to the third mask. In the first halo is at a second location and encompasses the fourth polygon and the second polygon . Therefore the first halo does not encompass a polygon comprising a mask assignment to the third mask.

In some embodiments a first polygon area and a second polygon area are determined based on the second polygon and the fourth polygon respectively. For example the first polygon area corresponds to the first mask at least because the second polygon comprises the mask assignment to the first mask. Similarly the second polygon area corresponds to the second mask at least because the fourth polygon comprises the mask assignment to the second mask. For example the first polygon area is an area associated with the first mask with respect to polygons encompassed within the first halo. Similarly the second polygon area is an area associated with the second mask with respect to polygons encompassed within the first halo. As an example the second polygon area is determined to comprise six units of area at least because the fourth polygon comprises six units of area. In some embodiments the second polygon comprises twelve units of area. However it will be appreciated that the first portion of the second polygon encompassed within the first halo comprises six units of area. Accordingly the first polygon area is determined to comprise six units of area at least because the portion of the second polygon encompassed within the first halo such as the first portion of the second polygon comprises six units of area.

In some embodiments a dummy mask assignment is assigned to a dummy of one or more dummies based on the first polygon area the second polygon area the first window a location of the first window and the first window size. In the first polygon area comprises six units of area and the second polygon area comprises six units of area. The third polygon area comprises zero units of area at least because the first halo does not encompass any polygons associated with a third mask. In some embodiments six dummies are inserted in the first window . For example a dummy of the six dummies comprises one unit of area and together the six dummies comprise six units of area. In some embodiments the dummy mask assignment is based on the first window at least because merely dummies encompassed by the first window are assigned a dummy mask assignment in some embodiments. It will be appreciated that the dummy mask assignment will vary based on the location of the first window and the first window size for example. When the first window is at a first location such as the first window of the first window encompasses a sixth polygon . In some embodiments the first window is shifted from the first location to a second location such as the second location of the first window in . Accordingly the first window encompasses the fourth polygon and the first portion of the second polygon when shifted to the second location for example. In other embodiments the first window is shifted to a third location different than the first location and the second location.

Accordingly the six dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the third mask at least because the first polygon area represents six units of area for the first mask the second polygon area represents six units of area for the second mask and the dummy mask assignments create six units of area for the third mask within the first window or the first halo. In some embodiments dummy is assigned a dummy mask assignment to the third mask. It will be appreciated that dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the third mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the third mask are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a striped fill pattern comprise the dummy assignment to the third mask.

In some embodiments a second polygon area and a third polygon area are determined based on a second set of polygons encompassed within the first halo and a third set of polygons encompassed within the first halo . For example the second set of polygons comprises polygons encompassed within the first halo comprising a mask assignment to the second mask such as the portion of the fourth polygon . For example the third set of polygons comprises polygons encompassed within the first halo comprising a mask assignment to the third mask such as the sixth polygon . Accordingly the second polygon area and the third polygon area are determined based on the portion of the fourth polygon and the sixth polygon respectively. For example the second polygon area is two units of area and the third polygon area is eight units of area.

In some embodiments eight dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the first mask six dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the second mask and the other two dummies and are assigned a random dummy mask assignment. It will be appreciated that dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the second mask are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a dotted fill pattern comprise the dummy assignment to the second mask. It will be appreciated that dummy refers to any of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask and that not all of the dummies comprising the dummy mask assignment to the first mask are labeled. For example the dummies comprising a striped fill pattern such as the striped fill pattern of dummy comprise the dummy assignment to the first mask.

In a first window and a first halo are at a first location and encompass the first polygon . Additionally in a second window and a second halo are at a second location and encompass the second polygon . In some embodiments a polygon area is an area associated with a set of one or more polygons sharing a mask assignment the set of polygons encompassed within a halo at a location. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the first halo and the second halo are at least one of the same size or the same perimeter as at least one of the first window or the second window respectively. Accordingly in these embodiments merely at least one of the first window or the second window are used. For example the first halo and the second halo are at least one of removed from or overlapping at least one of the first window or the second window respectively.

For example a first polygon area is associated with a first mask and a second polygon area is associated with a second mask. Accordingly a first polygon area is determined for the first halo at the first location and a second polygon area is determined for the first halo at the first location. For example the first polygon area for the first halo at the first location is two units of area and the second polygon area for the first halo at the first location is zero units of area.

Similarly a first polygon area is determined for the second halo at the second location and a second polygon area is determined for the second halo at the second location. For example the first polygon area for the second halo at the second location is zero units of area and the second polygon area for the second halo at the second location is two units of area.

In some embodiments a first dummy and a second dummy are inserted within the first window . Additionally the first dummy is assigned a first dummy mask assignment to the second mask and the second dummy is assigned a second dummy mask assignment to the second mask at least because the first polygon area for the first halo at the first location is two units of area and is associated with the first mask. Therefore the first dummy mask assignment and the second dummy mask assignment adjust the second polygon area for the first halo at the first location to be two units of area at least due to the two units of area of the first dummy and the second dummy associated with the second mask via respective dummy mask assignments for example.

In some embodiments a third dummy and a fourth dummy are inserted within the second window . Additionally the third dummy is assigned a third dummy mask assignment to the first mask and the fourth dummy is assigned a fourth dummy mask assignment to the first mask at least because the second polygon area for the second halo at the second location is two units of area and is associated with the second mask. Therefore the third dummy mask assignment and the fourth dummy mask assignment adjust the first polygon area for the second halo at the second location to be two units of area at least due to the two units of area of the third dummy and the fourth dummy associated with the first mask via respective dummy mask assignments for example.

In the first window and the first halo are shifted to a third location and encompass the third polygon . Additionally in the second window and the second halo are shifted to a fourth location and encompass the fourth polygon .

For example a first polygon area is determined for the first halo at the third location and a second polygon area is determined for the first halo at the third location. For example the first polygon area for the first halo at the third location is zero units of area and the second polygon area for the first halo at the third location is three units of area. It will be appreciated that the first halo at the first location encompasses a larger area than the first window at the first location at least because a first halo size of the first halo is larger than a first window size of the first window .

Similarly a first polygon area is determined for the second halo at the fourth location and a second polygon area is determined for the second halo at the fourth location. For example the first polygon area for the second halo at the fourth location is one unit of area and the second polygon area for the second halo at the fourth location is zero units of area.

In some embodiments a set of dummies is inserted within the first window . For example the set of dummies comprises three dummies. Additionally the three dummies of the set of dummies are assigned a dummy mask assignment to the first mask at least because the second polygon area for the first halo at the third location is three units of area and is associated with the second mask. Therefore the dummy mask assignment for the set of dummies adjust the first polygon area for the first halo at the third location to be three units of area at least due to the three units of area associated with the set of dummies and the set of dummies associated with the first mask via respective dummy mask assignments for example.

In some embodiments a dummy is inserted within the second window . Additionally the dummy is assigned a dummy mask assignment to the second mask at least because the first polygon area for the second halo at the fourth location is one unit of area and is associated with the first mask. Therefore the dummy mask assignment adjusts the second polygon area for the second halo at the fourth location to be one unit of area at least due to the one unit of area of the dummy associated with the second mask via the dummy mask assignment for example.

In other embodiments the method comprises creating a second window comprising a second window size less than the mask size of the mask layout the second window at a second location in the mask layout a second polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a second mask assignment to the first mask of the one or more masks. Additionally the method comprises creating a second halo comprising a second halo size of at least the second window size the second halo at the second location in the mask layout the second halo encompassing at least a portion of the second polygon when the second halo is at the second location. In some embodiments the method comprises determining a second polygon area corresponding to the first mask based on the second polygon comprising the second mask assignment to the first mask the second halo at the second location and the second halo size. According to some aspects the method comprises assigning a second dummy mask assignment to a second dummy of the one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the second polygon area the second window at the second location and the second window size the second dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of the one or more masks or the undetermined assignment.

In some embodiments a first window and a second window are shifted in parallel. For example a method comprises shifting at least one of the first window or the first halo to a third location and shifting at least one of the second window or the second halo to a fourth location. Accordingly polygon areas for respective windows are determined in parallel. For example a third polygon area corresponding to the first mask is determined based on a third polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a third mask assignment to the first mask the first halo encompassing at least a portion of the third polygon when the first halo is at the third location and the first halo size. Similarly a fourth polygon area corresponding to the first mask is determined based on a fourth polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a fourth mask assignment to the first mask the second halo encompassing at least a portion of the fourth polygon when the second halo is at the fourth location and the second halo size. In some embodiments dummy mask assignments for one or more dummies of respective windows are assigned in parallel. For example a third dummy mask assignment is assigned to a third dummy of the one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the third polygon area the first window at the third location and the first window size the third dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or the undetermined assignment. Similarly a fourth dummy mask assignment is assigned to a fourth dummy of the one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the fourth polygon area the second window at the fourth location and the second window size the fourth dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or the undetermined assignment. In some embodiments an additional polygon area is determined for an additional mask at least because a halo encompasses one or more polygons associated with a first mask and one or more polygons associated with an additional mask such as a second mask. For example a corresponding method comprises determining a fifth polygon area corresponding to a second mask of the one or more masks based on a fifth polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a fifth mask assignment to the second mask of the one or more masks the first halo encompassing at least a portion of the fifth polygon when the first halo is at the first location and the first halo size. Additionally the method comprises assigning a fifth dummy mask assignment to a fifth dummy of the one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the fifth polygon area the first window at the first location and the first window size the fifth dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or the undetermined assignment.

In some embodiments a first dummy mask assignment is assigned to the first dummy based on a second polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a second mask assignment to a second mask of the one or more masks and a second polygon area corresponding to the second mask. In other words a dummy mask assignment is assigned to a dummy based on a first polygon and a second polygon comprising different mask assignments for example. In some embodiments a mask layout is received and comprises at least one of a full mask assignment or a partial mask assignment.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation 1600 comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions is configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of exemplary method of or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to some aspects a method for balancing mask loading within a semiconductor processing environment is provided comprising receiving a mask layout associated with one or more masks the mask layout comprising one or more polygons a first polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a mask assignment to a first mask of the one or more masks. In some embodiments the method comprises determining a first polygon area corresponding to the first mask based on the first polygon comprising the mask assignment to the first mask. Additionally the method comprises assigning a first dummy mask assignment to a first dummy of one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the first polygon area the first dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or an undetermined assignment thus balancing mask loading within the semiconductor processing environment.

According to some aspects a method for balancing mask loading within a semiconductor processing environment is provided comprising receiving a mask layout associated with one or more masks the mask layout comprising one or more polygons a first polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a first mask assignment to a first mask of the one or more masks. In some embodiments the method comprises creating a first window comprising a first window size less than a mask size of the mask layout the first window at a first location in the mask layout. Additionally the method comprises creating a first halo comprising a first halo size of at least the first window size the first halo at the first location in the mask layout the first halo encompassing at least a portion of the first polygon when the first halo is at the first location. For example the method comprises determining a first polygon area corresponding to the first mask based on the first polygon comprising the first mask assignment to the first mask the first halo at the first location and the first halo size. In some embodiments the method comprises assigning a first dummy mask assignment to a first dummy of one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the first polygon area the first window at the first location and the first window size the first dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or an undetermined assignment thus balancing mask loading within the semiconductor processing environment.

According to some aspects a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed at least in part via a processing unit on a computer perform a method for balancing mask loading within a semiconductor processing environment is provided comprising receiving a mask layout associated with one or more masks the mask layout comprising one or more polygons a first polygon of the one or more polygons comprising a mask assignment to a first mask of the one or more masks. In some embodiments the method comprises determining a first polygon area corresponding to the first mask based on the first polygon comprising the mask assignment to the first mask. Additionally the method comprises assigning a first dummy mask assignment to a first dummy of one or more dummies in the mask layout based on the first polygon area the first dummy mask assignment comprising at least one of an assignment to at least one of the one or more masks or an undetermined assignment. In some embodiments the method comprises inserting at least some of the one or more dummies in the mask layout thus balancing mask loading within the semiconductor processing environment.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based on a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

