---

title: Facilitation of temperature compensation for contact lens sensors and temperature sensing
abstract: Apparatus, systems and methods employing contact lens sensors are provided. In some aspects, a contact lens includes a substrate and a circuit. The circuit can include: one or more sensors disposed on or within the substrate, that sense a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens; and a compensation circuit disposed on or within the substrate, coupled to the sensor(s) and that outputs information to adjust an output of the sensor(s). The compensation circuit can include: a temperature component that senses the temperature of the sensor(s); and a communication component that outputs information indicative of the temperature of the sensor(s), and receives information associated with adjusting the output of the sensor(s). In other aspects, a contact lens includes a circuit that senses the body temperature, or ambient temperature outside of the body, of the contact lens wearer. Sensor fusion and/or calibration can be performed based on the information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08979271&OS=08979271&RS=08979271
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08979271
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
This disclosure generally relates to temperature compensation for contact lens sensors and or temperature sensing via contact lenses.

Measuring body temperature and or ambient temperature is a process often fraught with human induced errors. Furthermore a sensor on a contact lens may have an undesired temperature dependence that degrades the accuracy of the sensor measurement. For example as the temperature of the sensor increases the sensor accuracy can decrease. Accordingly apparatus systems and or methods of temperature compensation and or temperature sensing are desired.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a contact lens. In some aspects the contact lens includes a substrate and a circuit. The circuit can include one or more sensors disposed on or within the substrate and that sense a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens and a compensation circuit disposed on or within the substrate and coupled to the one or more sensors and that outputs information to the one or more sensors to adjust an output of the one or more sensors. The compensation circuit can include a temperature component that senses the temperature of the one or more sensors and a communication component that outputs information indicative of the temperature of the one or more sensors and receives information associated with adjusting the output of the one or more sensors.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a method of compensating output of a contact lens sensor. The method can include sensing a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens determining a temperature of a sensor that senses the feature and provides an output indicative of the sensed feature transmitting information indicative of the temperature of the sensor and receiving information to adjust the output indicative of the sensed feature.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to another method of compensating output of a contact lens sensor. The method can include sensing a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens determining a temperature of a sensor that senses the feature and determining information to correct an output of the sensor.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to another contact lens. The contact lens can include a substrate and a circuit. The circuit can include one or more sensors disposed on or within the substrate and that sense a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens and a compensation circuit disposed on or within the substrate coupled to the one or more sensors and that adjusts an output of the one or more sensors. The compensation circuit can include a temperature component that senses the temperature of the one or more sensors an evaluation component that determines information to adjust the output of the one or more sensors based at least on the temperature of the one or more sensors and an adjustment component that adjusts the output of the one or more sensors based at least on the information to adjust the output of the one or more sensors.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a system. The system can include a contact lens including a substrate and a circuit. The circuit can include a temperature component that senses at least one of a body temperature of a wearer of the contact lens or an ambient temperature outside of a body of a wearer of the contact lens and a communication component that outputs sensed temperature information to a sensor processing component.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter can relate to another method. The method can include sensing using a contact lens at least one of a body temperature of a wearer of the contact lens or an ambient temperature outside of a body of a wearer of the contact lens and outputting sensed temperature information.

Toward the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects include the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth herein detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more aspects. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects can be employed and the described aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It is be evident however that such aspects can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described in this disclosure users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more aspects described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

Apparatus systems and methods disclosed herein relate to contact lenses performing temperature compensation for sensors on the contact lenses and or that facilitate body and or ambient temperature sensing and sensor fusion or calibration. In some aspects the contact lens includes a substrate and a circuit. The circuit can include one or more sensors disposed on or within the substrate and that sense a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens and a compensation circuit disposed on or within the substrate and coupled to the one or more sensors and that outputs information to the one or more sensors to adjust an output of the one or more sensors. The compensation circuit can include a temperature component that senses the temperature of the one or more sensors and a communication component that outputs information indicative of the temperature of the one or more sensors and receives information associated with adjusting the output of the one or more sensors.

In some aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to another system. The system can include a contact lens including a substrate and a circuit. The circuit can include a temperature component that senses at least one of a body temperature of a wearer of the contact lens or an ambient temperature outside of a body of a wearer of the contact lens and a communication component that outputs sensed temperature information to a sensor processing component.

One or more aspects of the apparatus systems and or methods described herein can advantageously facilitate contact lens temperature compensation and or temperature sensing. Accordingly the aspects can facilitate accuracy of contact lens sensor output while minimizing power consumption and complexity of the contact lens circuitry. In some aspects on chip compensation can facilitate analog modulation for sensor reading. In some aspects the apparatus systems and or methods can be employed for sensor fusion and or calibration of the temperature sensor.

System can be disposed on or within a contact lens in various aspects. In some aspects system can include a circuit having a sensor and a compensation circuit . In various aspects the sensor and or compensation circuit can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the system .

In some aspects the sensor can sense one or more biological features associated with the wearer of the contact lens. The sensor can output a current indicative of a sensed value for the biological feature in various aspects. In some aspects the sensor can output a value indicative of a level of the sensed biological feature.

In some aspects the sensed value can vary depending on the temperature of the sensor. As seen in ideally the sensor output is independent of the temperature of the sensor. However in practice in some aspects the sensor output can vary in proportion to the temperature of the sensor. Further while the graph of shows a linear relationship between current and temperature in various aspects the relationship is exponential. For example a glucose level of a wearer of the contact lens might be constant but the output current of the sensor could increase when the sensor measuring the glucose experiences a temperature increase. Accordingly the sensor could appear to indicate a sensed increase in glucose level that is actually false.

Accordingly for a same sensed biological feature value the actual sensor output can be higher or lower than the true value based on the temperature of the sensor. Because the sensor output can depend on the temperature of the sensor the temperature of the sensor can be employed to calibrate adjust the output reading of the sensor .

The sensor output reading can be a current level in some aspects. In some aspects the sensor output reading can be a value associated with the biological feature sensed.

Turning back to the biological features sensed by the sensor can include but are not limited to a glucose level alcohol level histamine level urea level lactate level and or cholesterol level of the wearer of the contact lens. In some aspects the biological feature can include but is not limited to a sodium ion Na level potassium ion K level calcium ion Ca level or magnesium ion Mg level of the wearer of the contact lens.

The compensation circuit can include a communication component a temperature component an evaluation component an adjustment component a power component a memory and or a microprocessor .

In various aspects the communication component can transmit and or receive information indicative of the temperature of the sensor indicative of the information sensed by the sensor e.g. the biological feature value and or indicative of a current output from the sensor . In some aspects the communication component can receive information associated with adjusting the output of the sensor . The information can be for correcting the erroneous sensor output that is due to temperature of the sensor .

The temperature component can sense the temperature of the sensor . In various aspects the temperature component can adjust the output indicative of the sensed feature based on the information indicative of the temperature of the sensor.

The evaluation component can evaluate the temperature of the sensor and generate information for temperature compensation. For example in some aspects the evaluation component can determine an adjustment value that when subtracted from the current output from the sensor or in some aspects when subtracted from the sensed biological feature value compensates for the impact the temperature of the sensor has on the current output or feature value. The evaluation component can determine the adjustment value based on the relationship between current and temperature as shown in . While the relationship in is shown as linear the graph is merely exemplary and can be any line having a slope and or orientation that is generally equal and opposite to that of the actual relationship of the sensor current versus temperature so as to remove the effects of temperature on the current.

For example in some aspects the evaluation component can characterize the output of the sensor as a function of temperature. Specifically the evaluation component can determine a temperature coefficient that should be associated with the sensor . The temperature coefficient can be indicative of a change in current output from the sensor as a function of temperature.

The adjustment component can perform the compensation to the sensor output and generate the adjusted sensor output. For example employing a graph such as that shown in or an algorithm associated with such a graph in some aspects the adjustment component can subtract the adjustment value from the output of the sensor e.g. either the current output and or the sensed biological feature value to determine the corrected sensor output. In some aspects the adjustment component can include information indicative of a slope of sensor output current versus temperature. The adjustment component can also include an adjustment slope having an equal and opposite slope to the sensor output current versus temperature slope. As such when the sensor increases current output the adjustment component can subtract a same amount of current to compensate and keep the sensor reading correct.

As another example in some aspects the adjustment component can employ the temperature coefficient determined by the evaluation component to determine the proper current for the sensor . For example the adjustment component can multiply the current output from the sensor by the temperature coefficient to generate the corrected current value. The corrected current value can be translated to the corrected sensed biological feature value.

In some aspects the temperature component can receive the adjustment information from a reader external to the contact lens. For example the sensor output and or the temperature sensed can be transmitted to the reader. In various aspects the reader can include any number of components that can transmit and or receive information wirelessly including but not limited to an RF reader mobile phone laptop personal computer PC tablet personal digital assistant PDA head mounted device or the like. In some aspects the reader can transmit to the temperature component information for adjustment of the sensed biological feature value. The adjusted biological feature value can then be output from a component of the contact lens. In some aspects the reader can adjust the sensor output based on the temperature of the sensor and output the adjusted sensor biological feature value.

The power component can generate and or output power to one or more components of the circuit . The power component can provide power to one or more components of the circuit through storing converting solar energy and or energy received from radio frequency waves in various aspects.

Turning first to system can include a contact lens having substrate and a sensor and temperature component on the substrate . In some aspects the system can also include a reader . The sensor temperature component and or reader can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the contact lens and or system .

The sensor can sense a biological feature of a wearer of a contact lens. The temperature component can perform temperature compensation for the sensor . For example the temperature component can determine the temperature of the sensor . Based on the temperature of the sensor the temperature component can determine information for compensating the output from the sensor . The adjusted sensor output can be transmitted to the reader as shown. Accordingly the temperature component can perform correction to the output from the sensor based on the temperature of the sensor .

Turning now to system can include a contact lens having substrate and a sensor and temperature component on the substrate . In some aspects the system can also include a reader . The sensor temperature component and or reader can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the contact lens and or system .

The sensor can sense a biological feature of a wearer of a contact lens. The temperature component can perform temperature compensation for the sensor . In this aspect the temperature of the sensor can be output to the reader . The reader can perform one or more calculations for adjusting the output of the sensor. The adjustment can be based on the received temperature reading for the sensor . The contact lens can receive the information for adjustment of the output of the sensor . The temperature component can apply the information to adjust the output of the sensor . Accordingly the temperature component can perform correction to the output from the sensor based on the temperature of the sensor and the compensation information received from the reader .

Turning now to system can include a contact lens having substrate and a sensor and temperature component on the substrate . In some aspects the system can also include a reader . The sensor temperature component and or reader can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the contact lens and or system .

The sensor can sense a biological feature of a wearer of a contact lens. The temperature component can perform temperature compensation for the sensor . In this aspect an unadjusted output from the sensor can be output to the reader . The temperature of the sensor can also be output to the reader . The reader can perform one or more calculations for adjustment of the output of the sensor . The adjustment can be based on the received temperature reading for the sensor . The reader can adjust the received unadjusted sensor output based on the received sensor temperature information. The adjusted sensor output can be output from the reader . Accordingly the reader can perform correction to the output from the sensor based on the temperature of the sensor .

The circuit can be disposed on or within a contact lens not shown in various aspects. The circuit can be a silicon integrated circuit embedded in the contact lens in various aspects.

The communication component can transmit and or receive information to and or from the contact lens. For example in some aspects the communication component can transmit temperature information to or from the contact lens. The temperature information can be transmitted and or received to and or from a reader external to the contact lens in some aspects.

In one or more aspects the temperature component can sense a temperature of a body of the wearer of the contact lens and or of ambient temperature in the environment outside of the body of the wearer of the contact lens.

The sensor processing component can process the temperature information output from the temperature component in various aspects. In some aspects the sensor processing component can include a sensor fusion component and or a calibration component .

The sensor fusion component can receive the sensed temperature information output from the communication component and or from the temperature component . The sensor fusion component can infer secondary temperature information based on the sensed temperature information. To perform the inferring the sensor fusion component can use one or more of artificial intelligence approaches and or hardware or algorithms that can average temperature information from additional sensors and the temperature component on the circuit .

In some aspects the sensor fusion component can infer the secondary temperature information based on additional sensed temperature information output from one or more other sources other than components of the contact lens. For example when the temperature component measures ambient temperature additional sensed temperature information can be retrieved from a wearable thermometer for example.

The calibration component can receive the sensed temperature information output from the communication component and or the temperature component . The calibration component can calibrate the temperature component based on the sensed temperature information output and or based on additional sensed temperature information output from one or more other sources other than components of the contact lens. For example the calibration component can calibrate the temperature component based on sensed temperature from other regions of the body other than the contact lens e.g. when the temperature component senses body temperature via the contact lens and or from areas outside of the wearer of the contact lens but proximate to the wearer e.g. when the temperature component senses ambient temperature via the contact lens .

The power component can generate and or output power to one or more components of the circuit . The power component can provide power to one or more components of the circuit through storing converting solar energy and or energy received from radio frequency waves in various aspects.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the circuit . The microprocessor can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the circuit .

The circuit can be disposed on or within a contact lens not shown in various aspects. The circuit can be a silicon integrated circuit embedded in the contact lens in various aspects.

The communication component can transmit information from and or receive information directed to the contact lens. For example in some aspects the communication component can transmit temperature information from the contact lens or to one or more other components on the contact lens. The temperature information can be transmitted to and or received from a sensor fusion component calibration component and or reader external to the contact lens in some aspects.

In one or more aspects the temperature component can sense a temperature of a body of the wearer of the contact lens and or of ambient temperature in the environment outside of the body of the wearer of the contact lens.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the circuit . The microprocessor can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the circuit .

The sensor fusion component can receive the sensed temperature information output from the communication component and or from the temperature component . The sensor fusion component can infer secondary temperature information based on the sensed temperature information. To perform the inferring the sensor fusion component can use one or more of artificial intelligence approaches and or algorithms or hardware adapted to average temperature information from additional sensors and the temperature component on the circuit .

In some aspects the sensor fusion component can infer the secondary temperature information based on additional sensed temperature information output from one or more other sources other than the contact lens. For example when the temperature component measures ambient temperature additional sensed temperature information can be retrieved from a wearable thermometer for example.

The calibration component can receive the sensed temperature information output from the communication component and or the temperature component . The calibration component can calibrate the temperature component based on the sensed temperature information output and or based on additional sensed temperature information output from one or more other sources other than the contact lens. For example the calibration component can calibrate the temperature component based on sensed temperature from other regions of the body other than the contact lens e.g. when the temperature component senses body temperature via the contact lens and or from areas outside of the wearer of the contact lens but proximate to the wearer e.g. when the temperature component senses ambient temperature via the contact lens .

The reader can read the information sensed by the temperature component and or output from the communication component in various aspects.

One or more of the sensor fusion component calibration component and or reader can include a memory and or microprocessor for performing one or more functions described in this disclosure.

In aspects wherein the system and or circuits of and or are employed on the contact lens in various aspects only one memory and only one microprocessor need be included on or in communication with the contact lens. In other aspects more than one memory and or microprocessor can be included on or in communication with the contact lens.

While not shown in aspects such as those described with reference to in some aspects a heat sink can be disposed on or within the contact lens to regulate the temperature of the sensor.

Turning first to at method can include sensing a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens e.g. using the sensor . In various aspects the feature sensed can be any number of different types of biological features including but not limited to a glucose level alcohol level histamine level urea level lactate level cholesterol level sodium ion Na level potassium ion K level calcium ion Ca level or magnesium ion Mg level of the wearer of the contact lens.

At method can include determining a temperature of a sensor that senses the feature and provides an output indicative of the sensed feature e.g. using the temperature component .

At method can include transmitting information indicative of the temperature of the sensor e.g. using the communication component . For example the information can be transmitted to an external reader that can determine information for compensation or correction adjustment of the temperature of the sensor. In some aspects the information determined can be an adjustment value that should be subtracted from the current reading for the sensor and or from the sensor value. In various aspects as described in further detail in for example the information can be transmitted to a component disposed on or within the contact lens e.g. evaluation component and or microprocessor that can determine information for compensation or correction adjustment of the temperature of the sensor.

At method can include receiving information to adjust the output indicative of the sensed feature e.g. using the communication component . In some aspects as described in further detail in for example the information can be received from the evaluation component and or microprocessor . In some aspects the information to adjust the output can be calculated based on information stored in the memory .

In some aspects at method can also include adjusting the output indicative of the sensed feature wherein the adjusting is based at least on the information indicative of the temperature of the sensor.

Turning now to at method can include sensing a feature associated with a wearer of the contact lens e.g. using the sensor . In various aspects the feature sensed can be any number of different types of biological features including but not limited to a glucose level alcohol level histamine level urea level lactate level cholesterol level sodium ion Na level potassium ion K level calcium ion Ca level or magnesium ion Mg level of the wearer of the contact lens.

At method can include determining a temperature of a sensor that senses the feature e.g. using the temperature component .

At method can include determining information to correct an output of the sensor e.g. using the evaluation component . By way of example but not limitation the evaluation component can determine an amount by which to adjust the current reading and or value output from the sensor. In various aspects the evaluation component can use be or be included within the microprocessor that executes instructions stored in memory . In some aspects the evaluation component and or microprocessor can determine the information to correct the output based on information stored in the memory .

In some aspects at method can include correcting the output of the sensor based at least on the temperature of the sensor that senses the feature e.g. using the adjustment component . In various aspects correcting the output of the sensor can include adjusting the value of the output to compensate for the temperature of the sensor and the corresponding determined inaccuracy in the output resultant from the temperature of the sensor.

Although not shown in some aspects method can also include transmitting information indicative of a corrected output of the sensor e.g. using the communication component . In various aspects the corrected output can be transmitted to a reader external to the contact lens for example. In various embodiments the reader can include any number of components that can transmit and or receive information wirelessly including but not limited to an RF reader mobile phone laptop PC tablet PDA head mounted device or the like.

Turning now to at method can include determining current as a function of temperature for sensor e.g. using the temperature component . The relationship between the current and the temperature can depend on the type of the sensor. In various aspects the type of the sensor can be known and the current temperature relationship known and or determined based at least on the type of the sensor.

At method can include determining an overage in a reading of current based at least on the temperature of the sensor e.g. using the evaluation component . In some aspects the overage in the reading of the current can be an excess current reading wherein the excess is due to the temperature of the sensor. The excess can be determined as the overage in the reading of the current.

At method can include subtracting the overage in the amount of the current to determine an adjusted current reading e.g. using the adjustment component . In various aspects the overage can be subtracted from the current read from the sensor to determine a corrected or adjusted current reading and corresponding compensated output of the sensor .

At method can include determining a compensated output of the sensor based at least on the adjusted current reading e.g. using the adjustment component .

Turning now to at method can include sensing using a contact lens at least one of a body temperature of a wearer of the contact lens or an ambient temperature outside of a body of a wearer of the contact lens e.g. using the temperature component .

At method can include outputting sensed temperature information e.g. using the communication component . In various aspects the information can be output to a reader e.g. reader and or another component located remote from the contact lens. In various aspects the information can be output to another component on the contact lens.

At method can include inferring secondary temperature information based at least on the sensed temperature information and additional temperature information output from one or more other sources e.g. using the sensor fusion component . For example in aspects wherein the body temperature is sensed the additional temperature information can be include but is not limited to information from one or more other locations on the body e.g. from a sensor on a forehead temple torso near the ear canal or the like . In examples in which ambient temperature is sensed the additional temperature information can include but is not limited to information from the environment e.g. information from sensors located in an area proximate to the area in which the wearer of the contact lens is located information from a weather service monitoring the area in which the wearer of the contact lens is located etc. .

Turning now to at method can include sensing using a contact lens at least one of a body temperature of a wearer of the contact lens or an ambient temperature outside of a body of a wearer of the contact lens e.g. using the temperature component .

At method can include outputting sensed temperature information e.g. using the communication component . In various aspects the information can be output to a reader e.g. reader and or another component located remote from the contact lens. In various aspects the information can be output to another component on the contact lens.

At method can include calibrating the temperature sensor based at least on the sensed temperature information e.g. using the . In some aspects calibrating is further based on additional sensed temperature information output from one or more other sources other than the contact lens. By way of example but not limitation the temperature sensor can be calibrated based on the additional sensed temperature reported by a weather service reporting on temperature in an area proximate to the area in which the wearer of the contact lens is located. The temperature sensed on the contact lens can be compared to the temperature reported by the weather service and the temperature component on the contact lens that sensed the temperature can be calibrated based at least in part on the temperature reported by the weather service.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in association with any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various aspects of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network can include other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or can represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or aspect of the various aspects of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various aspects.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client can be a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client can utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

As used in this application the terms component component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software firmware a combination of hardware and software software and or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and or the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can process data or request transaction services or tasks that can implicate the techniques for systems as described in this disclosure for one or more aspects.

A server can be typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described in this disclosure can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus can be the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Objects etc. can also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described in this disclosure can be associated with any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various aspects i.e. anywhere that a device may wish to read or write transactions from or to a data store. The data store can read and or write information to or from a memory e.g. memory contact lens e.g. contact lens and or reader e.g. reader . In various aspects the data store can be or can include a memory e.g. memory . In some aspects the data store can be or can include a contact lens e.g. contact lens as the contact lens can read and or write transactions to or from one component of the contact lens to another component of the contact lens. In some aspects the data store can be or can include a reader e.g. reader .

Accordingly the below remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer or other server components.

Although not required aspects can be partly implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various aspects described in this disclosure. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program components being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing environment for implementing one or more aspects includes a computing device in the form of a computer is provided. Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program components and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touch screen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner video camera or any other device that allows the user to interact with the computer . A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques detailed herein. Thus aspects herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described in this disclosure. Thus various aspects described in this disclosure can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer can be typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program components structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology or other tangible and or non transitory media that can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium. In various aspects the computer readable storage media can be or be included within the memory contact lens or components thereof or reader described herein.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program components or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

It is to be understood that the aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware aspect the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors and or other electronic units designed to perform the functions described in this disclosure or a combination thereof.

When the aspects are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium or a computer readable storage medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a component a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software aspect the techniques described in this disclosure can be implemented with components or components e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described in this disclosure. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. A memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various structures.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover use of the term an aspect or one aspect throughout is not intended to mean the same aspect unless specifically described as such. Further use of the term plurality can mean two or more.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described in this disclosure. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described in this disclosure after.

In addition to the various aspects described in this disclosure it is to be understood that other similar aspects can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described aspect s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding aspect s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described in this disclosure and similarly storage can be provided across a plurality of devices. The invention is not to be limited to any single aspect but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

