---

title: Constructing a contact sharing history
abstract: Technology for constructing a contact sharing history is disclosed. One method comprises receiving, at a computing device of a second user, a communication contact information element of a first user. The contact information is linked to a personal identification key associated with the first user. A link to a personal identification key associated with the second user is added to the communication contact information element to form the contact sharing history. The contact sharing history can then be used to identify how the second user obtained the first user's communication contact information element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990300&OS=08990300&RS=08990300
owner: Mitel Networks Corporation
number: 08990300
owner_city: Ottawa
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120821
---
The rapid development of mobile phones and other types of computing devices has significantly enhanced people s ability to communicate. Many people choose to communicate with others throughout the day via telephone email text messaging and social networking.

However the ability to continuously communicate can also lead to a significant reduction in productivity caused by the many interruptions that can occur when communication is attempted. The ability to identify the person or entity that is attempting to communicate can enhance a person s ability to determine if they want to communicate. However the mere knowledge of a person or entity s identity may not be sufficient to allow a person to make an informed decision on whether to accept a proposal to communicate.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

As used herein the term mobile computing device refers to a computing device capable of wireless digital communication such as a smart phone a tablet computing device a laptop computer a multimedia device such as an IPod Touch or other type computing device that provides text or voice communication.

As used herein the term communication contact information refers to information used to send a voice or text communication to a selected person. The term is inclusive of a person s phone number email address social media identity instant messaging identity or another desired form of communication. The communication contact information is typically used to route the text or voice communication to the selected person. The communication contact information can include underlying layers that are not visible to a user. For example an internet protocol IP address may be used as an underlying layer to send a social media or instant messaging communication. However a person s name may be displayed as having sent the communication. Similarly in voice calls a name may be displayed in a caller ID display instead of the person s phone number that is used to route the telephone call.

As used herein a server refers to a physical computer dedicated to running one or more service programs used to serve the needs of programs running on other computing devices that are in communication with the server. The service program s can serve the needs or requests of other programs which may or may not be running on the same computer. A server can be a system comprised of software and hardware that is dedicated to a specific purpose such as a database server a file server a mail server a print server a telephony server a credentials server and so forth. Alternatively a single server can be used to provide multiple services.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The increased use of mobile computing devices has significantly increased both the ability to communicate and the variety of formats in which a person can communicate. The use of voice communication and text communication including email text messaging i.e. Short Message Service instant messaging and social networking allows a person to communicate with other persons in any number of ways at substantially any time. The use of nearly ubiquitous mobile communications means that a person can communicate virtually at any time and place.

However receiving a proposal to communicate such as ringing phone an email a text message or an instant message request can often interrupt a task that was being performed when the proposal arrived. For instance a phone call or other form of communication may arrive during a meeting. An identity of the proposing party can be critical in enabling the receiving party to make an informed determination on whether to accept the proposal to communicate and actively engage in communication with the proposing party.

When a phone call is received the use of caller identification which is commonly referred to as Call Display or Caller ID can be helpful in identifying the calling party. However the use of caller identification is not helpful if the person receiving a phone call does not know or recognize the identity of the caller from a display of the information presented in the caller identification.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention additional information can be provided in a communication to enable a calling party to be identified. More specifically the additional information can be used to identify how the calling party received a person s contact information such as a telephone number email address or other type of communication contact information. Thus even if a person does not recognize the person or entity proposing to communicate the ability to determine how the person or entity obtained the communication contact information enables a more informed decision to be made as to whether to accept a proposal to communicate at the time it is received. In addition the ability to determine how the person obtained the communication contact information can enhance the ability to block unwanted contact or accept contact from unknown parties. This will be described more fully in the proceeding paragraphs.

Several instances are provided herein of examples for identifying how a person s communication contact information can be shared and tracked. As used herein the reference to generic names or identifiers such as Person A Person B and Person C is used for example purposes only and is not intended to be limiting by number or by order unless otherwise stated. An unlimited number of persons may be referenced by referring to Person N where N is used as a generic positive integer inferring that any number of persons may be used in the example.

In one example embodiment each time a person s communication contact information is shared additional information can be added to or associated with the person s communication contact information. The additional information can show a chain of ownership of the communication contact information. The term ownership as used herein does not denote any legal form of ownership. Rather it is merely used to denote the reception and or transmission of a person s communication contact information. The additional information can then be used to display a chain of ownership for the person s communication contact information whenever a communication is made.

In accordance with one example a personal identifier can be embedded in a person s communication contact information that is stored in an electronic communication device. The electronic communication device may be a fixed device such as a desktop computer or business telephone or a mobile computing device such as a laptop smart phone tablet computer and so forth.

The personal identifier can be a unique form of hardware identification on the communication device where the communication contact information is stored or created. For example the International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI of a mobile communication device a media access control MAC address a Bluetooth address or other hardware specific identification value may be used. The personal identifier will typically not refer to publicly known information that can be easily reproduced to allow a personal identifier to be hijacked or used for unintended purposes. Alternately the identifier can be created from a centralized distributor to insure uniqueness. However it is derived the identifier can be configured such that a user only knows his or her own identifier. The contact sharing identifier is typically not exposed in any manner outside the application itself

In addition to a personal identifier the communication contact information may be signed with an electronic signature such as a security key or other form of digital certificate that allows the user to always recognize herself or himself as the root source of the contact. The additional electronic signature is optional. The signature can be employed to insure that a person s communication contact information is not unintentionally copied. It can also be used to allow third parties who receive the contact information to verify its authenticity programmatically with the user s device. For example before User B stores the contact of User A the contact application of User B can automatically or on demand by a user contact the owner of the contact User A for authentication. User A s device can decrypt the identification block signature using the security key and validate the personal key. This can be done at storage time or even at call setup time.

The communication contact information can be shared with other individuals to allow the individuals to send voice text or other forms of digital communications to a selected computing device. The selected computing device is typically the computing device from which the communication contact information is shared. For example a smart phone may be used to share the communication contact information that allows an individual to send a digital communication to the smart phone such as a telephone call an email a text an instant message and so forth.

Alternatively the communication contact information can be shared from a first computing device and the communication contact information can enable communication to be sent to a second computing device that is different from the first computing device. For example the communication contact information can be shared from a desktop computing device that includes contact information for a smart phone such as a phone number or email address or other form of contact information.

A personal identifier for the second computing device such as the smart phone can be included in the communication contact information. An electronic signature may also be included. In one embodiment the communication contact information may be created on the first computing device with the personal identifier incorporated at the time of creation. A user can then send the communication contact information to other devices such as his or her desktop computing device. The communication contact information may be electronically packaged to allow the communication contact information containing the contact information i.e. phone number email etc. the personal identifier electronic signature and other desired information to be communicated in a single package. The package may be referred to as a communication contact information element.

The communication contact information element including the personal identifier can be shared or otherwise communicated in any number of ways such as via an email text instant message or through a proprietary connection such as a near field communication NFC connection a Bluetooth connection or some other form of digital connection that allows the data in the communication contact information element to be transferred from one computing device to another computing device. In one embodiment an application operating on the sending computing device can write the recipient s personal identifier into the sender s personal contact to denote a share .

Each contact list provides contact information such as phone numbers email addresses and so forth for the user of the contact list as previously discussed. The contact list also provides information regarding to whom the user has shared their contact information with. In this example the Shared to field is populated with a personal identifier string. The string can be any digital or alphanumeric value associated with the unique form of hardware identification on the communication device where the communication contact information is stored or created as previously discussed. The personal identifier string is labeled as a universally unique identifier uuid . This is not intended to be limiting. The personal identifier string can have any desired format that enables the information to be shared with others. In one embodiment the uuid can be resolved to an address such as an IP address of the computing device containing a contact database that contains the communication contact information. The uuid is illustrated as an alphanumeric value of eight letters in this example. This is also not intended to be limiting. The personal identifier string can have any desired length. Each uuid can be associated with a selected person or entity.

The contact list can also include a communication contact information block for each person from whom communication contact information is received. For each other contact in a user s contact list the contact information includes personal identifier information such as the personal identifier string regarding with whom the communication contact information was obtained from and with whom the communication contact information was shared with.

In the example of Person A has shared her communication contact information with Person B uuid wwwwwwww and Person C uuid yyyyyyyy . In addition Person B and Person C have each shared their communication contact information with Person A. Person A has not shared Person B or Person C s contact information with anyone else.

Similarly in person B s contact list it can be determined that Person B has shared his contact information with Person A and Person N. Similarly Person A and Person N have shared their contact information with Person B. In addition Person B has shared Person A s contact information with Person N and Person N s information with person C.

Person N s contact list shows that Person N has shared their communication contact information with Person B. Person N has also received the communication contact information of Person B from Person B and the communication contact information of Person A from Person B.

When Person A communicates with Person B the communication contact information can be used to inform Person B where Person A obtained his or her communication contact information. For example when Person A calls Person B information can be displayed prior to Person A accepting the call showing that Person B is calling and that Person B received Person A s communication contact information directly from Person A. Similarly when Person N calls Person A information can be displayed prior to Person A accepting the call showing that Person N is calling and that Person N received Person A s communication contact information from Person B. Based upon this information Person A can decide whether to take the call. In this example person A does not know who person N is and they do not have a contact entry for person N.

The additional information can also be used to provide more options for electronic screening of incoming communications. For example Person A can setup a rule to allow all telephone calls and emails if Person A s communication contact information was shared by herself or by Person B. Alternatively if the communication contact information was shared by another person such as Person C then a rule can be set to send telephone calls to voice mail. A wide variety of different rules can be created to filter incoming communications as can be appreciated.

Similarly when an email is received a field can show a chain of ownership of the person s communication contact information. A person can filter received email based on the information in the chain. In one example only emails that are received from people in the chain of ownership that have been approved will be sent to the inbox. If a person in the chain of ownership is not approved then the email may be sent directly to a junk email box. The ability to create a filtering rules based on who shared a person s communication contact information significantly increases a person s ability to filter incoming communications. This can reduce the disruptions that can occur each time a communication is received thereby increasing a person s efficiency.

While examples have been provided regarding telephone calls and email the examples are not intended to be limiting. Similar filtering can be accomplished in other forms of communication such as text messaging instant messaging social networking and the like.

Using the information in each contact list the distribution of each communication contact information i.e. the chain of ownership can be viewed as a data tree referred to herein as a sharing tree. For example in a sharing tree is illustrated for the communication contact information of Person A. The sharing tree shows that Person A s communication contact information was shared by Person A to Person B and Person C. Person B then further shared Person A s communication contact information with Person N as previously discussed. The information contained in each contact list can enable a user to determine how his or her communication contact information was shared.

The computing devices containing the contact list can be configured to allow the information to be obtained in a bidirectional manner. In one embodiment the ability to obtain communication contact information from a contact list in a bidirectional manner is dependent on the ability of each computing device to resolve a uuid to a user or device. The uuid may contain an address of the device or some centralized location where this information can be obtained such as a server. This will be discussed more fully in proceeding paragraphs.

At any given time a user may query his or her own personal contact to obtain a list of identifiers that can be used to identify people to whom the user has shared their own contact with. For example each personal identifier string can reference a local contact within the contact list itself when such contacts are available. In a bidirectional exchange of information such as where Person A provides her contact to Person B and Person B provides his contact to Person A. Such a bidirectional exchange could imply that the personal identifier string are merely a reference to the contact itself thereby simplifying the implementation and essentially rendering the personal identifiers to a local scope.

When a third party shares a person s communication contact information two possibilities can occur. In a first possibility the third party share can proceed recursively as previously described. For example Person A can share her communication contact information with Person B who then shares it with Person C. Person C will now have Person A s contact in his contact list. Embedded inside the communication contact information is Person A s personal identifier person B s personal identifier and Person C s personal identifier. At this point if Person C attempts to contact Person A Person A can receive a notification such as Person A Person B Person C . Within Person B s computing device Person A s communication contact information now also includes Person C s personal identifier because B shared A s contact with C . This allows Person A to track via Person B s computing device who Person B has shared Person A s communication contact information with. This information can be used to leap to Person C s phone to further view Person C s sharing history of Person A s contact. Stated simply a user can effectively crawl through other devices that contain their contact to view the sharing history of their contact. The user can always have access to his or her own contact even when stored in another device .

In another embodiment a third party share can result in an update to the original sharing party s entry within the original sharing party s personal contact list. When Person B initiates a share of Person A s communication contact information with Person C Person C s personal identifier can be communicated to Person A and added to Person A s communication contact information. This allows Person A to immediately determine who has shared her communication contact information without the need for communication with third party devices. This can be beneficial since other devices may be unreachable at the time of a query. It also removes intermediate devices from a share history chain thereby providing that leaf nodes i.e. devices containing Person A s contact information in this example are only obtainable from Person A s computing device.

For example in the sharing tree of Person A does not have an entry for Person N. The sharing is determined by looking into Person B s device to learn who Person N has shared the contact with. In one embodiment rather than require access to Person B s device to see who he shared the contact with the contact application of Person N can send this information to Person A at the time the sharing was executed. Thus rather than crawling across devices and learning the share history for a user s communication contact information the data can be accumulated directly within a user s device as people share it.

If the originating computing device is not available then the sharing information may be temporarily stored at another location such as on a server. Once the originating computing device is available the sharing information can be communicated by the server to the originating computing device. Alternately the user may be prevented from using the contact until the originating computing device is contacted updated.

The embodiment described in the preceding paragraphs implies that the communication contact information originates with the first sharer such as Person A in the previous example. Each person who participates in this embodiment can have a contact manager module operating on the person s computing device. The contact manager module can access the person s communication contact information that includes the person s personal identifier. In one embodiment the unique personal identifier can be a local reference to the person s personal contact in a contact list on the person s computing device.

In another embodiment provides an example illustration of a contact list that is configured to display a chain of ownership of communication contact information. The contact list may be accessed on a computing device. Each computing device can store a share history that is relevant to the device user. In Person A has shared their communication contact information with Person B and Person C not shown . Person A has not received any communication contact information from anyone. Person B has not shared his or her communication contact information with anyone. Person B has received the communication contact information of Person A and Person N from Person A and Person N respectively. Person B has also shared Person A s communication contact information with Person N. A sharing tree for Person A is the same as is illustrated in

In a unidirectional embodiment a local computing device may not be able to resolve the uuid to a local contact. Thus the uuid has to be obtained from the computing device from which the contact was shared. In the unidirectional embodiment if Person A shares her communication contact information with Person B then Person A can obtain Person B s communication contact information. The contact sharing application can then link the Person A and Person B s contacts together in each of their communication devices. Person A can have a full view of who the Person B is since Person B s uuid in Person A s communication device actually points to Person B s contact entry.

In the unidirectional view all Person A knows is Person B s uuid which does not resolve to anything local on Person A s device . Person B s identity is essentially hidden. When Person A shares her communication contact information with Person B Person B s contact sharing application simply returns Person B s uuid as a reference. To determine the sharing history Person A needs a mechanism to resolve the uuid to Person B s identity. In one embodiment a server can be used to resolve this information. The contact data can be stored in the server and accessed by using the uuid as a key. This allows a user to centrally control their contact information. For instance Person A can change her phone number email address etc. on the main server and the next time Person B tries to contact Person A the uuid in Person B s phone will insure the correct up to date contact information for Person A is used.

In one embodiment the exchange and update of keys such as the personal identifier and or the electronic signature is only permitted to authorized users. The authorized users may be listed in a centralized database in the communication contact database that resides on the server . In another embodiment a user may be authorized through a peer to peer authentication process in a communication network.

In the example of a contact transceiver module can be configured to operate on the first and second computing devices. For purposes of clarity a first user is associated with the first computing device and a second user is associated with the second computing device . In this example the second computing device is configured to receive the communication contact information of the first user from the first user s computing device. The communication contact information can be linked to a personal identification key i.e. the personal identifier and or uuid associated with the first user s computing device.

A contact manager module which is in communication with the second computing device can be configured to add a link to a personal identification key associated with the second user. Upon receiving the communication contact information of the first user at the second computing device additional information can be added to or associated with the communication contact information. The additional information can be used to show that the second user has received the first user s communication contact information from the first user by adding a uuid to a shared from and a shared to field. In one embodiment the shared from field can be added by the sender to allow the sender to attach the sender s uuid to the communication contact information element that is sent. The receiving party can then add a uuid to the shared to field based on the information obtained from the computing device of the receiving party. In one embodiment the personal identification key such as the uuid can be communicated by a communication module to the other computing device using the wired or wireless communication link. The link may be encrypted or the uuid scrambled in a fashion that can reduce or eliminate potential security threats to the personal identification key.

In one embodiment the communication module can communicate with a server . A communication contact database can be maintained that enables the computing device to identify an ownership chain of each communication contact information element. For example as previously discussed the shared to and shared from information for each communication contact information element can be stored in the communication contact database and accessed by the first and second computing devices.

In another embodiment a method for constructing a contact sharing history is disclosed as depicted in the flow chart of . The method comprises receiving at a computing device of a second user a communication contact information element of a first user as shown in block . The communication contact information element is linked to a personal identification key associated with the first user. In block a link to a personal identification key associated with the second user is added to the communication contact information element to form the contact sharing history. In block the contact sharing history can be communicated form the computing device of the second user to the first user when communicating with the first user to show the first user where the second user obtained the first user s communication contact information element.

It is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention disclosed are not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but are extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

