---

title: Systems and methods for consumer-generated media reputation management
abstract: A method implementable in at least one electronic device coupled to a network and a display device, includes receiving, over the network, a data set, receiving, from a user, a selection of a first topic, determining, based on the data set, a plurality of network sites hosting commentary of the first topic and an authority level of each site of the plurality, determining, based on the data set, an authority level of each site of the plurality, determining, based on the data set, a plurality of authors providing the commentary hosted by the plurality of network sites, determining, based on the data set, an authority level of each author of the plurality, determining, based on the data set, a value characterizing an opinion of each author on the first topic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317180&OS=09317180&RS=09317180
owner: VOCUS, INC.
number: 09317180
owner_city: Beltsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120608
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 251 370 filed Oct. 14 2008 now abandoned which claims priority to the following applications U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 998 730 filed Oct. 11 2007 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 003 144 filed Nov. 13 2007 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 072 776 filed Apr. 1 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 126 061 filed Apr. 29 2008. All of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

This application is also a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 919 filed Aug. 15 2008 now abandoned which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 965 067 filed Aug. 15 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 956 097 filed Aug. 15 2007. This application is also a continuation in part of Ser. No. 11 745 390 filed May 7 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 720 835 and PCT Application Serial Number PCT US07 68392 filed May 7 2007 both of which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 746 621 filed May 5 2006 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 861 406 filed Nov. 27 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 903 810 filed Feb. 26 2007. All of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

This disclosure is protected under United States and International Copyright Laws. 2006 2008 Visible Technologies LLC. All Rights Reserved. A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure after formal publication by the USPTO as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The Internet and other computer networks are communication systems. The sophistication of this communication has improved and the primary modes differentiated over time and technological progress. Each primary mode of online communication varies based on a combination of three basic values privacy persistence and control. Email as a communications medium is private communications are initially exchanged only between named recipients persistent saved in inboxes or mail servers but lacks control once you send the message you can t take it back or edit it or limit re use of it . Instant messaging is private typically not persistent although some newer clients allow users to save history so this mode is changing and lacks control. Message boards are public typically all members and often all Internet users can access your message persistent but lack control they are typically moderated by a central owner of the board . Chat rooms are public again some are membership based typically not persistent and lack control.

Blogs and Social Networks are the predominant communications mediums that permit author control. By reducing the cost technical sophistication and experience required to create and administer a web site blogs and other persistent online communication have given an unprecedented amount of editorial control to millions of online authors. This has created a unique new environment for creative expression commentary discourse and criticism without the historical limits of editorial control cost technical expertise or distribution exposure.

There is significant value in the information contained within this public media. Because the opinions topics of discussion brands and celebrities mentioned and relationships evinced are typically unsolicited the information presented if well studied represents an amazing new source of social insight consumer feedback opinion measurement popularity analysis and messaging data. It also represents a fully exposed granular network of peer and hierarchical relationships rich with authority and influence. The marketing advertising and PR value of this information is unprecedented.

This new medium represents a significant challenge for interested parties to comprehensively understand and interact with. As of Q1 2007 estimates for the number of active unique online CGM sites forums blogs social networks etc. range from 50 to 71 million with growth rates in the hundreds of thousands of new sites per day. Compared to the typical mediums that PR Advertising and Marketing businesses and divisions interact with 

Businesses and other motivated communicators have come to depend on software that perform Business Intelligence Customer Relationship Management and Enterprise Resource Planning tasks to facilitate accelerated organized prioritized tracked and analyzed interaction with customers and other target groups e.g. voters consumers pundits opinion leaders analysts reporters and others . These systems have been extended to facilitate IM E mail and telephone interactions. These media have been successfully integrated because of standards e.g. JABBER POP3 SMTP POTS IMAP and others that require that all participant applications conform to a set data format that allows interaction with this data in a predictable way.

Blogs and other CGM generate business value for their owners both on private sites that use custom or open source software to manage their communications and for large public hosting entities. Because these sites generate advertising revenue by pulling users into the site author owners attempt to protect the content on these sites so that readers subscribers peers have to visit the site in order to participate in observe the communication. Thus there is no financial incentive to make the content wholly available to the public and as a result there is no unifying standard for blogs which contains complete data. RSS and Atom feeds allow structured communication of some portion of the communication on sites but are often incomplete representations of the data available on a given site. Sites also protect their content from being stolen by automated systems with an array of CAPTCHAs Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart email verification mobile phone text message verification password authentication cookie tracking Uniform Resource Locator URL obfuscation timeouts and Internet Protocol IP address tracking.

The result is a massively diverse community that it would be very valuable to understand and interact with which resists aggregation and unified interaction by way of significant technical diversity resistance to complete information data standards and tests that attempt to require one to one human interaction with content.

Embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that can be suitable for use with embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing an embodiment of the invention includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory .

Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory can be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Additionally device can have additional features functionality. For example device can also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media can be part of device .

Device can also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Device can also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. can also be included. All such devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present invention can be described in the context of an exemplary computer network system as illustrated System includes an electronic client device such as a personal computer or workstation that is linked via a communication medium such as a network e.g. the Internet to an electronic device or system such as a server . The server can further be coupled or otherwise have access to a database and a computer system . Although the embodiment illustrated in includes one server coupled to one client device via the network it should be recognized that embodiments of the invention can be implemented using one or more such client devices coupled to one or more such servers.

In an embodiment each of the client device and server can include all or fewer than all of the features associated with the device illustrated in and discussed with reference to . Client device includes or is otherwise coupled to a computer screen or display . As is well known in the art client device can be used for various purposes including both network and local computing processes.

The client device is linked via the network to server so that computer programs such as for example a browser running on the client device can cooperate in two way communication with server . Server can be coupled to database to retrieve information therefrom and to store information thereto. Database can include a plurality of different tables not shown that can be used by server to enable performance of various aspects of embodiments of the invention. Additionally the server can be coupled to the computer system in a manner allowing the server to delegate certain processing functions to the computer system.

In at least one embodiment methods and systems are implemented by a coordinated software and hardware computer system. This system can include a set of dedicated networked servers controlled by an embodiment. The servers can be installed with a combination of commercially available software custom configurations and custom software. A web server is one of those modules which exposes a web based client side user interface UI to customer web browsers. The UI interacts with the dedicated servers to deliver information to users. The cumulative logical function of these systems results in a system and method of an embodiment.

In alternate embodiments the servers could be placed client side could be shared or publicly owned could be located together or separately. The servers could be the aggregation of non dedicated compute resources from a Peer to Peer P2P grid or other distributed network computing environments. The servers could run different commercial applications different configurations with the same or similar cumulative logical function. The client to this system could be run directly from the server could be a client side executable could reside on a mobile phone or mobile media device could be a plug in to other Line of Business applications or management systems. This system could operate in a client less mode where only Application Programming Interface API or eXtensible Markup Language XML or Web Services or other formatted network connections are made directly to the server system. These outside consumers could be installed on the same servers as the custom application components. The custom server side engine applications could be written in different languages using different constructs foundations architectural methodologies storage and processing behaviors while retaining the same or similar cumulative logical function. The UI could be built in different languages using different constructs foundations architectural methodologies storage and processing behaviors while retaining the same or similar cumulative logical function.

Embodiments of the invention can be described in the context of one or more ecosystems. An ecosystem in the context of the present application can describe online personas and sites an Internet site which contains CGM content of their interactions that can be further described by how the interactions occur the topics of those interactions the frequency of interactions and the like.

In an embodiment and referring now to an authority map is illustrated which can be displayed within a graphical user interface not shown on the display device . The authority map is a tool for identifying and understanding the authors associated with a specified topic of interest that matter to a particular entity using such an embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the displayed authority map shows an icon representing a topic being analyzed which as illustrated can be displayed as a hub of a hub and spoke configuration along with a textual description of the topic. Also displayed are icons representing authors of varying levels of authority or perceived influence discussed in greater detail below herein who have commented or otherwise posted an opinion on the displayed topic. These icons can further include a domain identifier associated with the author as illustrated. Also displayed are icons representing sites of varying levels of authority or perceived influence discussed in greater detail below herein hosting conversations involving those authors and the displayed topic. These icons can further include a domain identifier associated with the site as illustrated.

In an embodiment each of the icons can be presented in a distinguishing format to indicate varying levels of authority influence and or prevailing opinion or sentiment on the topic associated with authors and sites. For example size of the icons can correspond to authority influence of the respective author or site bigger for more authoritative smaller for less authoritative. Color shading or pattern type of the icons can correspond to prevailing sentiment e.g. green for positive red for negative grey for neutral and orange for mixed . Lines connect the icons of authors to the icons of sites that host them and from the site icons to the topic icon at the center. Dotted or other distinguishing lines represent conversations or other connections occurring between authors. In an embodiment arrows at the ends of the dotted lines show the direction of interaction pointing for example from commenter to original post author.

To populate the map a criteria panel not shown such as a pull down menu for example can be used to select the topic of interest. The interface allows a user to get additional information about any of the nodes icons associated with authors sites and topics on the display . For example and referring to a small pop up window with additional detail about that node can appear. The display can allow a user for example to promote or pin nodes that are of interest which makes those items larger on the screen.

Further included within an embodiment of the authority map is a series of calculations. For example in an embodiment the magnitude of author authority can be calculated based on data representing the topic selected by the user using the conversations between authors and the activity generated by the commentary of a particular author e.g. the number of comments posted in response to a comment by the author to evaluate the author s authority. This data can be calculated or otherwise determined by execution of computer executable instructions by human analysis and or some combination of both types of approaches.

The magnitude of site authority can be defined or otherwise determined in a manner similar to that used to determine the magnitude of author authority. Data representing content pertaining to a particular topic can be determined to have been written or otherwise produced by someone at a site. As such a site which has a predetermined threshold number of comments pertaining to a particular topic can be for example determined to be an authoritative site. The magnitude of the authority of these sites can then be determined based on for example the amount or volume of comments pertaining to the topic in question and associated with each respective site. This data can be calculated or otherwise determined by execution of computer executable instructions by human analysis and or some combination of both types of approaches.

Sentiment can be calculated by a weighted metric on the overall sentiment distribution which for example can favor sentimented values over neutral values. In a hypothetical example a weighted ratio of four to one can be given to rank sentimented values over neutral values. This ranking can ensure that a user is receiving information characterized and based on an authors sentiment on the user selected topic. Counts or totals for example can be reflective of the on topic conversations and based on the topic of interest chosen. For example if an author has written 200 posts but only 5 are about the topic the user is interested in the ranking calculation can be based on the those 5. In this embodiment the user can set the context in order to identify authorities in limited to that context.

Further included within an embodiment of the authority map is a series of calculations. Raw data is aggregated processed and analyzed in several ways. Posts referring to CGM content e.g. weblog postings comments forum replies a product review and the like can be matched to one or more topics of interest using for example keyphrase definitions including a word string of words or groups of words with Boolean modifiers that are used as models for discovering CGM content that might be relevant to a given topic. For each topic matched a sentiment can be assigned for example by using manual attribution or computational attribution. Computational attribution of sentiment can be achieved by correlating patterns from a set of known pieces of content that represent the sentiment for a topic to the individual piece of content being analyzed. For example an embodiment can use text parsing in conjunction with Bayesian inference to assign a probability that a post exists within neutral or sentimented states. Each state can be represented by a definition derived from groups of posts that are characteristic of that state. The comparison can be done using the state definitions that can be stored in an index resident on the client device and or server and or database and comparing that state definition with the content in question. In alternative embodiments or additionally keywords keyphrases and or keysentence recognition referring for example to a word string of words and or groups of words with Boolean modifiers that are used as models for discovering CGM content that might be relevant to a given topic can be used in conjunction with an index. The index can be used to correlate sentiment value with a particular or group of keywords keyphrase and keysentences to determine an author s opinion on a topic.

In an exemplary embodiment when displaying an author and or site s sentiment in the Authority Map the dominant sentiment can be calculated and ranked by a weighted metric on the overall sentiment distribution across all posts that match the topic being analyzed weighting sentimented values over neutral values. For ranking authors for example the posts can be matched by topic and or contributed by an author of interest. For ranking sites for example the posts can be matched by topic and or contributed at a site of interest. An author s and or a site s authority ranking can be calculated based on data representing topics selected by the user using the engagement interactions and or conversations between authors and the activity e.g. post counts . Therefore calculations reflect the on topic conversations computed relative to the topic ecosystem and or context being analyzed. For example if an author has written 200 posts but only 5 are on topic the calculation will use the 5 contextually relevant posts in the ranking calculation. In this embodiment the user can set the context in order to identify authorities limited to that context.

Referring to embodiments of an authority map can include but is not limited to the following features single topic representation with a topic selector for context color coded sentiment visualization rolled up to Authors and Sites authority represented by icon size topic site linkage site author linkage author author linkage mouse over tool tip with data stats

Alternative embodiments can include but are not limited to a sliding scale to allow user to choose the number of authors displayed date and site domain filters data drill down capabilities that allows users to view the data behind the calculations.

In one embodiment an active conversation feature enables users to participate with different content providing authors for example bloggers based on the content providing author s thread question string issue resolution and or the like wherein such responsive media can include but is not limited to posting comments on a user s behalf collecting follow up comments from a blog and bringing those comments to the user enabling users to interact and or providing management of the interaction cycle in a Workflow Manager. This embodiment is shown in .

Referring to one embodiment includes integration with business process and analytics. An Engagement Manager and or Workflow Manager can be tailored to focus on the operational activities of identifying engaging and responding to and or with actionable posts as well as managing the interaction between the user and the authors providing content. In another embodiment the Engagement Manager can manage a working group of users. For example actionable posts can be allocated to certain users within the working group thus directing the working group through the workspace based on the context and returned results. In one embodiment batch actions relate to handling large amounts of similar data. For example in situations where content volume is typically large users can apply general rules that identify groups of posts for further action. For example users can consider specific Site Domains as non actionable specific authors as owned relationships for one member of the working group and or tasks can be divided and distributed between individuals in a working group for example large numbers of posts can be moved to individual members for detailed review. For example in operation an action can be to assign and or close a large group of posts for individual line item review by a specific team member. To facilitate these actions administrator can be given the authority to select a number of posts so that when a group of posts is selected the administrator can preferably choose to bulk archive or bulk assign the selection. Alternative embodiments provide users with the same capability.

In another embodiment a Rules Manager permits assignment of one or more rules to one user. A user may manually analyze content by prioritizing rules that create groups of content. Users can analyze one or more groups of content based on their own individual specialties and roles. In this embodiment a single user may create multiple rules to allow multiple groups of content to be independently segregated sorted and presented to the user for analysis. The embodiment allows users to analyze content in the order of priority based on the current needs and change that order when the need changes.

In this embodiment the Rules Manager allows for the prioritization of the one or more rules and further includes addition of selection parameters to further define the one or more rules. In this embodiment the rules manager increases the speed of overall system responses by refreshing the UI upon any change or update to one or more rules. Additionally the embodiment can display the number of posts the embodiment returns in applying any particular rule definition at the time the rule was created and whenever that rule is created and or saved. In this embodiment the Rules Manager can also display the number of posts returned by changing the search criteria from requiring an exact match for search terms to permitting near matches for one or more of the criteria sections.

In another embodiment a re scoring manager includes but is not limited to the ability for a user to re score a post from the response manager adding additional topics to rescore against and or changing the existing score for a topic.

In one embodiment the feature set of the Engagement Manager can include a search folder structure batch actions activities activity details and or usability enhancements. For example the search feature can allow users to search across their active and closed threads. This capability can be implemented to make optional Responding Rules. The user can define and identify specific groups of posts that are actionable. In addition to search functionality users can also save searches over time. Folder structure provides users with the identification of subsets of workable posts without needing to re search. Unassigned posts can be viewed by individual topics regardless of the user role. Administrators can see the current workstream of users by looking at individual user folders. Administrator approval and pass queues can have a folder so that the administrators can work through items that are targeted to them. Closed posts also can have a folder for quick access. Users can switch between different views while also keeping the content separate based on different user scenarios.

User activities include the lifecycle of threads through the engagement process. User activities are actions performed by users on content thus dealing with by some response of the user with the incoming results containing media. Users can perform as many activities as necessary to engage with respond to and or gather responses from the community based on the content containing media. For example wherein community response to user is context and thread dependent the responses from user can likewise target the community audience in a context and thread dependent manner and reactions to the user can be harvested from the community in a context and thread dependent manner. For example user activities can include but are not limited to monitoring and or responsive media formats responding via phone IM email PM post or not responding adding a note to thread and the like. In addition the system can record the user activities for example assigning action archiving marking as responded marking as pending approval for later action engaged in active conversation and the like. In embodiments of the invention the users activity can be decoupled from status of media content i.e. the stage at which a media content post exists in the lifecycle.

In another embodiment to support ongoing engagement as well as transferring assignment of a specified content thread to different users e.g. different users can be part of a working team or corporate group the system provides capabilities to capture information that is specific for the situation. Each user activity logged has an editable Title Description and Outcome. Through this users can capture information for themselves or others to read. User attached information can be attached to the content item so that the user engagement can be audited in the future and or used for reference when reviewing a specific instance of communication. An outcome can be set as needed in any user activity. Although outcomes are available for any user activity it is the engagement specific activities that are the focus for setting this field. The outcome can be used for example to track how the community has responded to a given activity or a given user.

In one embodiment business intelligence includes a summary dashboard. In this embodiment the summary dashboard ca contain a high level view of one or more user s account. It can contain less detail than an individual marketing dashboard item and can represent an overall picture of the user account data. The summary dashboard for example can include post volume wherein the user can see the number of pieces of content for the chosen date range e.g. past seven days the last period of the same duration e.g. last week and the same period one year ago.

In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include network site volume which can show e.g. the number of sites that have content for the chosen date range the last period of same duration and the same period one year ago. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include the author volume showing the number of authors that wrote content for the chosen date range the last period of same duration and the same period one year ago. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include incoming content showing the content related to specific topics coming into system across e.g. the last week of posted dates. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include current sentiment showing the distribution of sentiment for content on specific topics. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include a topic summary showing a quick view of the topics with one or more of a sentiment meter a post count and a percentage of posts with a given sentiment e.g. neutral for the given period and selected topics of interest. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include volume trend showing the trend of content sites and author volumes over the date range chosen. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include top authors based one or more measurements such as activity pull reach participation authorship or influence. In an exemplary embodiment the summary dashboard can include top sites based on measurements such as content conversations and authors.

In one embodiment business intelligence includes a marketing posts dashboard which can present a view of the account data with posts as the central area of focus. The Marketing post dashboard can include for example a summary wherein the number of pieces of content for the chosen period number of pieces for the last period of same duration number of pieces for the same period from last year and number of pieces from yesterday for the different categories are displayed wherein the different categories include total content original posts and or conversations or number of threads. In an exemplary embodiment the Marketing post dashboard can include volume estimates for example an estimated volume trend based on keyword matching that measures the number of content in the following categories total content original posts conversations or number of thread. In an exemplary embodiment the Marketing post dashboard can include relevant volume for example the determined relevant volume trend obtained after the categorization and sentiment scoring processes have taken place in the following categories total content original posts conversations or number of threads. In an exemplary embodiment the Marketing post dashboard can include sentiment distribution for example for topics chosen in the filter this graph can show the distribution of positive negative and mixed from the portion of relevant posts that contain sentiment. The sentiment distribution can be measured for example as percentage scale to ensure clarity that can be masked from topic post amplification. In an exemplary embodiment the Marketing post dashboard can include metrics for example statistics of content includes top sites top author top topic and top thread. In an exemplary embodiment the Marketing post dashboard can include topics metrics for example for each of the chosen topics of interest the number of pieces of content for the chosen period last period of same duration and same period from last year as well as a roll up view of the sentiment that uses the same algorithm used for rolling up sentiment in the ecosystem map can be shown.

In one embodiment business intelligence includes an Authors dashboard presenting a view of the account data with authors as the central area of focus. The Authors dashboard can include for example a summary for example the number of authors for the chosen period last period of same duration same period from last year and yesterday and for the following categories total authors authors writing original posts and authors starting a conversation.

In an exemplary embodiment the Authors dashboard can include a list of the top authors based on the measurements such as activity rank based on content volume pull rank based on author interaction on ranked authors original posts reach rank based on author interaction on ranked author s comments participation rank based on comment volume authorship rank based on original post volume and influence rank based on a weighted metric involving activity reach and pull and or topics for each of the chosen topics of interest this can show the number of authors for the chosen period last period of same duration and same period last year .

In one embodiment business intelligence includes a Network Sites dashboard marketing sites that can present a view of the account data with network sites as a central area of focus. The network sites dashboard can include for example a summary for example the number of sites for the chosen period last period of same duration same period from last year and yesterday for the following categories total sites sites containing original posts and sites containing a conversation. In an exemplary embodiment the Network Sites dashboard can include metrics such as relevant volume the determined relevant site volume trend obtained after the categorization and sentiment scoring processes have taken place top sites the top 10 sites based on the measurements such as content conversations authors and or topics for each of the chosen topics of interest this can show the number of sites for the chosen period last period of same duration and same period from last year .

In one embodiment business intelligence includes a Topic Drill Down marketing topic drilldown dashboard that can present a view of the data arranged to represent a topic centric perspective. The topic drill down dashboard can include for example a topic summary wherein the summary volume for a specific topic displays content sites and authors for this period last period of same duration and same period from last year. In an exemplary embodiment the Topic Drill Down dashboard can include topic comparison for example a chart showing an overview of the chosen topic in relation to the rest of the currently active topics. In an exemplary embodiment the Topic Drill Down dashboard can include topic sentiment trend showing the volume of sentimented posts over time broken down by positive negative and mixed. In an exemplary embodiment the Topic Drill Down dashboard can include topic volume trend showing the volume for the topic trended over time for content sites and authors. In an exemplary embodiment the Topic Drill Down dashboard can include topic metrics showing statistics including top site top author and or top thread. In an exemplary embodiment the Topic Drill Down dashboard can include topic sentiment summary including an overall sentiment summary for the topic showing neutral vs. sentimented breakdown of sentiment on positive negative and mixed. In an exemplary embodiment the Topic Drill Down dashboard can include topic comparisons wherein a summary of all topics showing content volume for the chosen period last period of same duration and same period from last year is displayed.

In other embodiments of the invention a Scoring Manager included in the business intelligence dashboards includes filtering feature that ensures that the user is presented with relevant and useful content i.e. users can focus on posts and content which are particularly important because unwanted content is filtered from view.

In other embodiments of the invention a Response Manager included in the business intelligence dashboards can include a rescore function which provide users with the ability to re score a content containing post even if that post has not been previously scored. This feature provides users with a streamlined way to score posts.

In other embodiments of the invention an Engagement Manager included in the business intelligence dashboards provides users with an interface to visualize the number of posts in each thread represented in their view by providing a small counter of posts for each thread. This feature can allow the user to make a decision on which threads to respond to based on the number of posts found therein. A data browser is included that can allow users to view a batch of unscored data e.g. the last 30 days of unscored data for their account as well as the ability to easily sort that data and navigate the pages of data. In addition to providing a new way to browse through unscored data the Data Browser allows the user to enter and search for particular exact match permalinks regardless of topic matching. Using the data browser users can locate threads of interest and the importance of the threads based on permalink searching and then score these important items bringing them into Engagement Manager.

In another embodiment the invention includes a user interface wherein a variety of information can be displayed at any given time giving users a quick view of information of particular interest. Included is a zoom feature for many of the charts displayed in the Dashboards. This Dashboard feature extends to line scatter summary and pie charts in the Dashboard display. The invention can provide many date ranges by which the user can limit the data in the view and can improve the date range system by introducing a new custom date range builder. Using this feature users can select a customized window of time by which to filter their view. This allows a user to filter and organize their data according to their specific needs.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

