---

title: Number resolving superconducting nanowire photon detector on multiple surfaces of a substrate
abstract: A superconducting nanowire photon detector apparatus comprising detection, insulating, and substrate layers. The insulating layer provides electrical isolation of a plurality of individual detector elements from the interconnection network fabricated on the substrate layer except where electrical interconnection between the inputs and outputs of each detector element and the interconnection network is intended.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577430&OS=08577430&RS=08577430
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08577430
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120705
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

The ability of a very thin and very narrow section or nanowire of superconducting material to detect the impact of a photon has long been known. The basic principle is as follows. A nanowire of a superconducting material is created and electrically wired to a voltage source. As the current flows through the wire it creates heat. If the cooling needed to reach the temperature for superconducting phenomena Tof approximately 10 kelvin or less and the heating due to the current density in the nanowire are properly balanced then the nanowire can be held extremely close to but under the superconducting phase transition. Below this critical temperature T the wire effectively has no resistance. Just above the critical temperature the wire is not superconducting and has a finite resistance. When a photon strikes the superconducting nanowire it breaks the cooper pairs in the vicinity and creates a hot spot. If this photon induced hotspot raises the temperature of the segment of nanowire above Tthen the hotspot will undergo a phase transition and no longer be superconducting. If the non superconducting area is large enough or equivalently the nanowire is small enough it will block the entire nanowire. This leads to a sudden rise in the resistance of the nanowire. This change in resistance can be detected by various electronic setups and a single photon is counted. Once the hot spot from the incident photon disperses the wire will return to the superconducting state and the device will be ready to detect another photon. This is called the reset time of the device.

Traditional Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors SNSPDs are made from one long nanowire. In order for this single nanowire to cover a useful area a meander is created. In effect the wire is folded back and forth across the surface of the desired area usually about 10 m by 10 m microns . These devices are called single photon detectors because the nanowire can only feel the loss of the superconducting condition somewhere along its length. If two photons hit the nanowire at the same time two hot spots are created but only the increase in resistance is felt so the detector can see only one photon. Such detectors are effectively high pass filters they can detect the presence of 1 or more photons without being able to count them. Similarly the device has no means of measuring spatial resolution. The output signal of the device is not a function of the location of the photon impact.

A second drawback of the long nanowire approach is the relaxation time of the detector. It has been shown that the relaxation time the time for a hot spot to dissipate is related to the kinetic inductance and thus the length of the nanowire. This leads to a relaxation time of about 10 ns for a niobium nitrite NbN single wire 10 m by 10 m meander. The operational repetition rate will need to be significantly slower than the relaxation time of the device to avoid interactions between the relaxation and incoming photons. This leads to experimental repetition rates much slower than current pulsed laser systems which are capable of gigahertz frequencies.

To create the number resolution of the overall optical device multiple nanowires detectors are needed. In U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0050790A1 by Dauler et al. one possible method to gain some amount of number resolution is given the so called multi element superconducting nanowire single photon detector MESNSPD . Their method involves interleaving multiple long nanowires in a parallel meander across the surface of a substrate chip. While this solution is somewhat effective in creating number resolution it has numerous drawbacks common to all current SNSPDs and the limited number of nanowires available currently or so limits the number resolution of the device.

One of the most important effects in a SNSPD is that of current crowding. Current crowding in superconducting nanowires has been studied by Clem and Berggren. The heating in the superconducting nanowire as mentioned above is vital and is determined by the local current density along the wire. Ergo an area with higher current density will be hotter than an area of low current density. In order to maintain the necessary superconducting condition along the full length of the wire the maximum bias current applied through any nanowire detector is determined by the point of highest current density and therefore highest temperature. Current crowding as discussed by Clem and Breggen describes the effect of bends and constrictions in the nanowire which increase the local current density such as the bends in the multi element superconducting nanowire single photon detector MESNSPD of Dauler et al. and standard SNSPDs. These bends are then the hottest spots on the detector i.e. the closest to the critical temperature T. This is a significant problem as the quantum efficiency of any region of a nanowire is proportional to how close that nanowire region is to T. The incident single photon carries a very small amount of energy and creates a small amount of heating. The closer the operating temperature sometimes called bias temperature T is to the Tthe higher the efficiency of that region of nanowire is. The quantum efficiency of the device can then be thought of as the average efficiency of all the segments of the wire. If one segment is higher in temperature such as the bends in a current SNSPD or MESNSPD then ALL of the rest of the wire will have a lower efficiency. We also note that the high efficiency corners are often left out of what is considered the active area of many devices.

It should also be noted that in all current SNSPDs or MESNSPDs the current crowding effect limits the fill factor. Fill factor is the ratio of the active area that can detect a photon to that which can t i.e. the ratio of the nanowire area to substrate area within the active detection area. Yang et. al teach in their article Suppressed Critical Currents in Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors with High Fill Factors that as the name implies large fill factor detectors have lower efficiency. This is a counterintuitive result as one would expect that the more photon sensitive area there was within the active area the higher the efficiency would be. In the work of Clem and Breggen it is noted that the sharper the bend in a nanowire the worse the effect of current crowding becomes. As the fill factors increase in all single layer SNSPDs and MESNSPDs the bends approach the worst case of sudden 180 degree turns. This limits the fill factor of any traditional detector and thus reduces the total quantum efficiency.

Another drawback of SNSPDs that likewise persists in MESNSPDs are long reset times. The reset time of a SNSPD is directly proportional to the kinetic inductance of the nanowire and can be altered by altering the geometry of the nanowire such as its thickness or width. For a given geometry the kinetic inductance is directly proportional to the length of the nanowire. Thus the reset time can be adjusted by changing the length of the superconducting nanowire that is shortening the wire will provide the benefit of a shorter reset time. This is a significant drawback to existing SNSPND and MESNSPD. Because they are based on long continuous wires the effect of reducing the length of the wire is to reduce the size of the active area of the detector. Such a reduction in area is often unacceptable as the input photons are difficult to focus on a small area. In the MESNSPD this can be countered to a degree by adding more wires into the meander pattern thus spreading it back outward but even here the nanowires remain tens of microns long.

One definition of an ideal number resolving photon counter would be an analog of modern Charged Coupled Device CCD cameras. In that example it is desired to have a large two dimensional array of pixels that covers the active area with the maximum number of small pixels which are placed as compactly as physically possible. This would lead to being able to resolve large numbers of photons from the large number of pixels while having the shortest practical reset time and good spatial resolution both from the small pixels and the highest fill factor from the closely packed pixels .

A final comment that must be mentioned with regard to the prior art is the lack of spatial resolution. The SNSPDs and MESNSPDs discussed above have little to no spatial resolution because each nanowire crosses the full or at least a significant percent of in the case of non interleaved MESNSPDs active area of the device.

What is needed therefore and has to date not been provided by the prior art is a superconducting nanowire photon detector that allows for improvements across a wide area of device characteristics such as a reset time fill factor high quantum efficiency spatial resolution and most importantly highly efficient resolution of the number of incident photons number counting . This is needed as many experiments and applications in quantum optics require number resolution to be able to produce the correct results. The recently developed MLSNPD of Smith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 506 857 addresses and improves upon many of these areas through the use of a novel Multi layer architecture that placed the interconnected leads and detection elements on different layers of the device that were insulated against cross talk. While this more complicated architecture is effective it is desirable to simplify such a design.

We therefore provide a significant modification of the design paradigm of the MLSNPD that maintains the superior features of the MLSNPD while simplifying its fabrication.

Briefly stated the present invention provides a superconducting nanowire photon detector apparatus comprised of a single substrate wafer also called the chip onto which are fabricated both the leads and the detection elements. Rather than placing the leads and detection elements on the same surface such as in the MESNSPD or building multiple stacked layers on one surface of the substrate wafer such as in the MLSNPD we place the leads on one surface of the substrate chip and the detection elements on the opposite surface of the chip. Electrical connections are made by effectively drilling holes or vias completely through the substrate at chosen points and then filling said vias with conducting or superconducting material. The substrate itself then acts as the insulating layer in the MLSNPD design paradigm.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a superconducting nanowire photon detector apparatus comprises a substrate layer having an interconnection means fabricated on one surface and a detection layer fabricated on another surface where the detection layer comprising a plurality of detector elements being fabricated thereon and each of the detector elements have an input and an output. In the preferred embodiment the substrate comprises the insulating layer the lead layer comprises the interconnection means on one surface and the detection layer comprises the detection elements on the opposite surface. The substrate is situated so as to insulate the interconnection means from the detection layer. The interconnection means facilitates routing signals input into the apparatus to the inputs of each of the plurality of detector elements and routing signals output from each of said plurality of detector elements out of the apparatus. The substrate has means for each of the inputs and outputs of each of the detector elements to make electrical contact with corresponding portions of the interconnection means.

The present invention may embody a single prefabricated substrate waver onto which electrical elements have been fabricated onto opposite surfaces. These surfaces will be referred to as the top or detection layer and the bottom or lead layer in analogy to MLSNPD. Similar to the MLSNPD the architecture of the present invention is based on the desirable goal of separating the leads and detector elements onto different surfaces while maintaining the necessary electrical connections. It is then possible to pixelate the detector. What is meant is that the present invention is able to create a full two dimensional array of short sections of nanowires. These are called pixels or pixel bridges because of their suggestive shape as shown in . Other designs for the pixel shape and arrangement are possible within the scope of the present invention.

Unlike the MLSNPD the fundamental substrate of the device plays an important role in the design and properties of the present invention. The first stage of the fabrication procedure will be to create vias through the substrate and to fill them with the chosen material be it conducting or superconducting. As mentioned above the reset time of the devices is strongly influenced by the length of the superconducting pixel bridge. Therefore the thickness of the substrate becomes an important factor both from the point of controlling the reset time and from the need to have a uniform thickness. Most commercially available substrate wavers such as R plan sapphire are far too thick to be used in their current form or the order of millimeters thick. Therefore it is necessary to thin the wafer. This can be done by custom fabrication of thin wafers or by etching and chemical and mechanical planarization of thick wafers. There is an inherent drawback to the use of large thin wavers and that is their fragility. Therefore while it is possible to create and use thin wafers as it is possible to use thick wavers the preferred embodiment of the invention will use a wafer in which a small area has been thinned to a preselected thickness. This area will contain the pixel bridges similar to the MLSNPD while maintaining most of the strength of the original thick wafer. A cross section of the substrate is seen in showing the thick wafer and the section which has been thinned to the desired amount.

Onto one surface of the prepared i.e. vias drilled and filled chip will be fabricated the interconnection means that constitute the Lead layer. This includes but is not limited to the leads themselves and the contact pads which are needed to solder wires to the device. Items such as the contact pads are industry standards and will not be discussed in detail. The lead layer could be applied to either surface of However do to the large size of some components in the lead layer such as the contact pad which are on the order of 100 um square it is easier to place the lead layer on the flat surface of the chip. The thin spot could be made large enough to encompass the lead layer or vertical lead could be fabricated out of the thin spot but as large thin areas are fragile this is not a preferred configuration.

On the opposite surface within the thinned spot the detection layer will be fabricated. This layer consists of a thin film of superconducting material that is then patterned into the desired pixel shape this example is depicted in . This layer is approximately only 4 10 nanometers thick depending on the superconducting material used. These small nanowires are the same as that used in current state of the art detectors and will have identical properties.

The first and greatest advantage of the present invention s architecture is the highly efficient number resolving capability that is critical to many applications. The number resolving capability of a pixilated detector similar to the MLSNPD can always be made larger than that of an equivalent MESNSPD that uses a single layer meander regardless of the number of nanowires it contains. This is accomplished by taking the meander pattern and separating each leg of the meander into its own pixel regardless of the initial pattern the MESNSPD pattern need not be the standard square meander nor do the pixel all need to be the same shape or size. The number resolving efficiency can be raised even higher by shortening and adding more pixels.

There is a minimum length of superconducting nanowire that can be used as a photon detector in any configuration. This is due to the latching condition described by Kerman et al. Applied Phys. Lett. 88 111116 2008 . If the kinetic inductance of the nanowire becomes too small equivalent to saying the wire is too short then the nanowire will fail to return to the superconducting state after detecting a photon. This effect is created because the electric heating due to current passing through the hot spot is equal or greater than the cooling being done to the system. This is an unsurpassable physical lower limit to single layer designs but it is not so great a problem as the lower limit tends to be much smaller than the length of nanowire needed to create a useful meander area.

Small pixels even pixels smaller than this latching limit can be created with our two surface MLSNPD design. It is noted that the length of the nanowire is not the same as the length of the nanowire in the active area of a pixel. depicts a pixel bridge. The length of that nanowire which determines the kinetic inductance is the length of the active area on the detection level and the length of the two posts imbedded in the wafer. Thus the pixel bridge of the present invention is larger than the pixel. While there is a minimum limit to the thickness of the substrate there is no theoretical maximum limit. Therefore the nanowire used to make the pixel can be arbitrarily long i.e. arbitrarily thick wafer without changing the pattern of the pixels on the detection layer. This allows the present invention similar to the MLSNPD to completely overcome this limit and to optimize the reset time during the device fabrication where a single layer device cannot. Also current detectors seek to reduce the kinetic inductance of their device by choosing materials that have low kinetic inductance per unit length. A detector with small pixels may benefit from using a superconducting material with a higher kinetic inductance per unit length. This could reduce the need for extremely thick insulating layers. These features give the present invention a clear advantage over all existing single layer devises SNSPDs and MESNSPDs in the crucial areas of number resolution and reset time.

By creating a regular pattern of a large number of pixels on the detection layer the present invention gains significant though not total information about the spatial distribution of the incoming stream of photons. Initial devices may have too few elements 10 to 20 to produce actual pictures. As fabrication methods improve reliability the number of elements can be increased significantly to the point of taking real images of nano scale phenomenon by integrating over time or multiple repetitions of the events. This would effectively be a low light superconducting nanowire CCD camera. Such information could be used for low intensity applications of spectroscopy among others.

In the work by Kerman et al. constrictions are sighted as a possible cause of reduced quantum efficiencies due to current crowding. As stated above the constrictions such as bends in the nanowire are the point s closest to the critical temperature and therefore the most sensitive to a photon impact. The majority of SNSPDs and MESNSPDs are not constricted i.e. straight sections of wire and therefore have lower average current densities and quantum efficiencies.

The single layer SNSPDs have a significant drawback that the constrictions increase as the fill factor of the meander pattern increases. This increased constrictions lead to increased current crowding at the bend and lower efficiency in the straight sections. This thwarts the purpose of increasing the fill factor the desire for higher efficiency. As the present invention pixels have no bends on the surface of the detection level they are not limited in this manner. Therefore our present invention can have larger fill factor. The only limit on the fill factor for our device is the unavoidable physical limit for avoiding cross talk and current leakage between pixels and is currently significantly higher than that achieved in effective SNSPDs. This effect is less significant in MESNSPDs but still plays a role.

Referring to specifically the pixel bridge it is clear that the area of greatest constriction and highest efficiency is the active detector layer i.e. the road bed of the bridge and there are no bends on the detector layer. The area of highest current crowding is right where it is wanted in the active detector area . Therefore the present invention s pixel will average higher quantum efficiencies than other similar detectors because current crowding is less of a problem it is even an advantage.

Referring to the fundamental element is a bridge shaped construction of a superconducting nanowire. A plurality of detector elements will form what is called the detection layer as depicted in . Vertical connections or posts connect ends of the detector elements to the lead layer via passage ways through wafer. Detector elements and vertical connections form a bridge and define the bridge s length and height. The length of the bridge and the height of the bridge can be stretched arbitrarily. The thickness of the detector elements or similarly the thickness of the detection layer is highly dependent on physical properties of the superconducting material used in the device. The minimum length of the detector elements and height of the vertical connections of the bridge are determined by the same physical properties of the superconducting material as well as the properties of the substrate material the desired size of the detection area and the overall layout of the pixel design. The interface of the detection element and the vertical connection will depend on fabrication procedures and may affect the overall efficiency through current crowding . depicts an idealized curved interface between the detector element and the vertical connection which serves the purpose of reducing the current crowding. The minimum thickness of the device will depend on the superconducting material used the latching length L the desired size of the pixel on the detection layer D and the pixel and post geometry. The preferred thickness T of the thinned section of the substrate will be chosen such that the length pixel bridge is just longer than half the latching length L such that T L D 2. We use greater than or equal to in order to indicate that the thickness T should make the pixel bridge larger than the latching length. That said the shorter the bridge the faster the rest time. Thus the preferred implementation has T only slightly larger than L D 2. We note that the superconducting material used and geometry of the nanowire both in and will significantly affect the kinetic inductance and thus L and T. Because of this we note that the scaling of this image will not be constant between all MLSNPDs therefore all subsequent figures are not to scale.

Referring to the thinned section of the substrate consists of a substrate material into which vias i.e. passage ways provide for the vertical connection posts to pass between the detector elements and the leads . These posts penetrate the substrate material and when properly patterned will connect the leads in the lead layer and the detector element in the detection layer. This configuration thus forms the desired plurality of pixels on the detection layer. We note that for some configurations particularly meander arrays and other long pixels shapes that the posts need not be superconducting material and may be the same or similar material as the leads i.e. copper.

Still referring to the thin section of the chip is bounded by the inner square box the thin section need not be square nor have vertical edges and may be any shape and slope. The shape and slope may be determined by the fabrication method of the thinned area. Outside of this box is the thick section of the substrate wafer. It is shown as a narrow border as its purpose is only to provide structural strength to the thin section of the wafer . In practice the wafer will continue for orders or magnitude in both directions as this does not materially affect the design this extent is omitted from all figures.

Referring to the detection layer consists of a pattern of superconducting detector elements . These detector elements are placed such that they overlap the posts see in the thinned area of the substrate and thus complete the circuit through the device. The pixels are patterned directly on the top surface of the thinned section of the substrate . Different fabrication procedures may necessitate an insulating embedding material but this does not alter the behavior of the device.

Referring to we show a see through plan view of the full device. The arrows indicate the direction of current flow though the device. The input current enters in an input lead the lead layer bottom side in this view see at the top center of this example. Once divided among the pixels the current is called the Bias current . The Bias Current required is determined by numerous factors such as the superconducting material used the geometry of the pixels fabrication defects among others. The Bias current passes through the substrate via the posts . The bias current then moves along the detector element nanowires similarly to single layer designs but then returns to the lead layer in order to exit the device through output leads as output current depicted by the arrows .

The resistors R and R are chosen so as to maximize the fraction of the diverted current that enters the measurement apparatus. R may or may not be on the super cooled chip. The ratios of the resistors R R and R will determine factors such as the signal to noise ratio. R and R can be controlled arbitrarily but R is the resistance of the hot spot and will be fixed by the superconducting nanowire material and the geometry of the nanowire and number of the pixels. This leads to optimal values of R and R that differ for every pixel number and material similarly to the MLSNPD. As a rule of thumb we state that for any system the resistance should behave roughly as R R R . We note here that the details of the off chip electronics are no different than that of existing SNSPDs and MESNSPDs and that the contact pads on the lead layer that allow for the connection of the off chip wires to the on chip leads are not shown as they are industry standards.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

