---

title: Methods and systems for data services
abstract: A method substantially as shown and described the detailed description and/or drawings and/or elsewhere herein. A device substantially as shown and described the detailed description and/or drawings and/or elsewhere herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088450&OS=09088450&RS=09088450
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09088450
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed with this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

Thus in accordance with various embodiments computationally implemented methods systems circuitry articles of manufacture ordered chains of matter and computer program products are designed to among other things provide an interface for acquiring data from a device said data related to a particular portion of the device performing one or more operations on the received data to convert the received data into operated data transmitting the operated data to a data receiving module acquiring from a service determining module one or more services configured to be at least partly carried out by the device and facilitating presentation of an offer to provide the one or more received services at the device in exchange for access to the particular portion of the device.

The claims description and drawings of this application may describe one or more of the instant technologies in operational functional language for example as a set of operations to be performed by a computer. Such operational functional description in most instances would be understood by one skilled the art as specifically configured hardware e.g. because a general purpose computer in effect becomes a special purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software .

Importantly although the operational functional descriptions described herein are understandable by the human mind they are not abstract ideas of the operations functions divorced from computational implementation of those operations functions. Rather the operations functions represent a specification for the massively complex computational machines or other means. As discussed in detail below the operational functional language must be read in its proper technological context i.e. as concrete specifications for physical implementations.

The logical operations functions described herein are a distillation of machine specifications or other physical mechanisms specified by the operations functions such that the otherwise inscrutable machine specifications may be comprehensible to the human mind. The distillation also allows one of skill in the art to adapt the operational functional description of the technology across many different specific vendors hardware configurations or platforms without being limited to specific vendors hardware configurations or platforms.

Some of the present technical description e.g. detailed description drawings claims etc. may be set forth in terms of logical operations functions. As described in more detail in the following paragraphs these logical operations functions are not representations of abstract ideas but rather representative of static or sequenced specifications of various hardware elements. Differently stated unless context dictates otherwise the logical operations functions will be understood by those of skill in the art to be representative of static or sequenced specifications of various hardware elements. This is true because tools available to one of skill in the art to implement technical disclosures set forth in operational functional formats tools in the form of a high level programming language e.g. C java visual basic etc. or tools in the form of Very high speed Hardware Description Language VHDL which is a language that uses text to describe logic circuits are generators of static or sequenced specifications of various hardware configurations. This fact is sometimes obscured by the broad term software but as shown by the following explanation those skilled in the art understand that what is termed software is a shorthand for a massively complex interchaining specification of ordered matter elements. The term ordered matter elements may refer to physical components of computation such as assemblies of electronic logic gates molecular computing logic constituents quantum computing mechanisms etc.

For example a high level programming language is a programming language with strong abstraction e.g. multiple levels of abstraction from the details of the sequential organizations states inputs outputs etc. of the machines that a high level programming language actually specifies. See e.g. Wikipedia High level programming language http en.wikipedia.org wiki High level programming language as of Jun. 5 2012 21 00 GMT . In order to facilitate human comprehension in many instances high level programming languages resemble or even share symbols with natural languages. See e.g. Wikipedia Natural language http en.wikipedia.org wiki Natural language as of Jun. 5 2012 21 00 GMT .

It has been argued that because high level programming languages use strong abstraction e.g. that they may resemble or share symbols with natural languages they are therefore a purely mental construct. e.g. that software a computer program or computer programming is somehow an ineffable mental construct because at a high level of abstraction it can be conceived and understood in the human mind . This argument has been used to characterize technical description in the form of functions operations as somehow abstract ideas. In fact in technological arts e.g. the information and communication technologies this is not true.

The fact that high level programming languages use strong abstraction to facilitate human understanding should not be taken as an indication that what is expressed is an abstract idea. In fact those skilled in the art understand that just the opposite is true. If a high level programming language is the tool used to implement a technical disclosure in the form of functions operations those skilled in the art will recognize that far from being abstract imprecise fuzzy or mental in any significant semantic sense such a tool is instead a near incomprehensibly precise sequential specification of specific computational machines the parts of which are built up by activating selecting such parts from typically more general computational machines over time e.g. clocked time . This fact is sometimes obscured by the superficial similarities between high level programming languages and natural languages. These superficial similarities also may cause a glossing over of the fact that high level programming language implementations ultimately perform valuable work by creating controlling many different computational machines.

The many different computational machines that a high level programming language specifies are almost unimaginably complex. At base the hardware used in the computational machines typically consists of some type of ordered matter e.g. traditional electronic devices e.g. transistors deoxyribonucleic acid DNA quantum devices mechanical switches optics fluidics pneumatics optical devices e.g. optical interference devices molecules etc. that are arranged to form logic gates. Logic gates are typically physical devices that may be electrically mechanically chemically or otherwise driven to change physical state in order to create a physical reality of Boolean logic.

Logic gates may be arranged to form logic circuits which are typically physical devices that may be electrically mechanically chemically or otherwise driven to create a physical reality of certain logical functions. Types of logic circuits include such devices as multiplexers registers arithmetic logic units ALUs computer memory etc. each type of which may be combined to form yet other types of physical devices such as a central processing unit CPU the best known of which is the microprocessor. A modern microprocessor will often contain more than one hundred million logic gates in its many logic circuits and often more than a billion transistors . See e.g. Wikipedia Logic gates http en.wikipedia.org wiki Logic gates as of Jun. 5 2012 21 03 GMT .

The logic circuits forming the microprocessor are arranged to provide a microarchitecture that will carry out the instructions defined by that microprocessor s defined Instruction Set Architecture. The Instruction Set Architecture is the part of the microprocessor architecture related to programming including the native data types instructions registers addressing modes memory architecture interrupt and exception handling and external Input Output. See e.g. Wikipedia Computer architecture http en.wikipedia.org wiki Computer architecture as of Jun. 5 2012 21 03 GMT .

The Instruction Set Architecture includes a specification of the machine language that can be used by programmers to use control the microprocessor. Since the machine language instructions are such that they may be executed directly by the microprocessor typically they consist of strings of binary digits or bits. For example a typical machine language instruction might be many bits long e.g. 32 64 or 128 bit strings are currently common . A typical machine language instruction might take the form 11110000101011110000111100111111 a 32 bit instruction .

It is significant here that although the machine language instructions are written as sequences of binary digits in actuality those binary digits specify physical reality. For example if certain semiconductors are used to make the operations of Boolean logic a physical reality the apparently mathematical bits 1 and 0 in a machine language instruction actually constitute a shorthand that specifies the application of specific voltages to specific wires. For example in some semiconductor technologies the binary number 1 e.g. logical 1 in a machine language instruction specifies around 5 volts applied to a specific wire e.g. metallic traces on a printed circuit board and the binary number 0 e.g. logical 0 in a machine language instruction specifies around 5 volts applied to a specific wire. In addition to specifying voltages of the machines configuration such machine language instructions also select out and activate specific groupings of logic gates from the millions of logic gates of the more general machine. Thus far from abstract mathematical expressions machine language instruction programs even though written as a string of zeros and ones specify many many constructed physical machines or physical machine states.

Machine language is typically incomprehensible by most humans e.g. the above example was just ONE instruction and some personal computers execute more than two billion instructions every second . See e.g. Wikipedia Instructions per second http en.wikipedia.org wiki Instructions per second as of Jun. 5 2012 21 04 GMT . Thus programs written in machine language which may be tens of millions of machine language instructions long are incomprehensible. In view of this early assembly languages were developed that used mnemonic codes to refer to machine language instructions rather than using the machine language instructions numeric values directly e.g. for performing a multiplication operation programmers coded the abbreviation mult which represents the binary number 011000 in MIPS machine code . While assembly languages were initially a great aid to humans controlling the microprocessors to perform work in time the complexity of the work that needed to be done by the humans outstripped the ability of humans to control the microprocessors using merely assembly languages.

At this point it was noted that the same tasks needed to be done over and over and the machine language necessary to do those repetitive tasks was the same. In view of this compilers were created. A compiler is a device that takes a statement that is more comprehensible to a human than either machine or assembly language such as add 2 2 and output the result and translates that human understandable statement into a complicated tedious and immense machine language code e.g. millions of 32 64 or 128 bit length strings . Compilers thus translate high level programming language into machine language.

This compiled machine language as described above is then used as the technical specification which sequentially constructs and causes the interoperation of many different computational machines such that humanly useful tangible and concrete work is done. For example as indicated above such machine language the compiled version of the higher level language functions as a technical specification which selects out hardware logic gates specifies voltage levels voltage transition timings etc. such that the humanly useful work is accomplished by the hardware.

Thus a functional operational technical description when viewed by one of skill in the art is far from an abstract idea. Rather such a functional operational technical description when understood through the tools available in the art such as those just described is instead understood to be a humanly understandable representation of a hardware specification the complexity and specificity of which far exceeds the comprehension of most any one human. With this in mind those skilled in the art will understand that any such operational functional technical descriptions in view of the disclosures herein and the knowledge of those skilled in the art may be understood as operations made into physical reality by a one or more interchained physical machines b interchained logic gates configured to create one or more physical machine s representative of sequential combinatorial logic s c interchained ordered matter making up logic gates e.g. interchained electronic devices e.g. transistors DNA quantum devices mechanical switches optics fluidics pneumatics molecules etc. that create physical reality representative of logic s or d virtually any combination of the foregoing. Indeed any physical object which has a stable measurable and changeable state may be used to construct a machine based on the above technical description. Charles Babbage for example constructed the first computer out of wood and powered by cranking a handle.

Thus far from being understood as an abstract idea those skilled in the art will recognize a functional operational technical description as a humanly understandable representation of one or more almost unimaginably complex and time sequenced hardware instantiations. The fact that functional operational technical descriptions might lend themselves readily to high level computing languages or high level block diagrams for that matter that share some words structures phrases etc. with natural language simply cannot be taken as an indication that such functional operational technical descriptions are abstract ideas or mere expressions of abstract ideas. In fact as outlined herein in the technological arts this is simply not true. When viewed through the tools available to those of skill in the art such functional operational technical descriptions are seen as specifying hardware configurations of almost unimaginable complexity.

As outlined above the reason for the use of functional operational technical descriptions is at least twofold. First the use of functional operational technical descriptions allows near infinitely complex machines and machine operations arising from interchained hardware elements to be described in a manner that the human mind can process e.g. by mimicking natural language and logical narrative flow . Second the use of functional operational technical descriptions assists the person of skill in the art in understanding the described subject matter by providing a description that is more or less independent of any specific vendor s piece s of hardware.

The use of functional operational technical descriptions assists the person of skill in the art in understanding the described subject matter since as is evident from the above discussion one could easily although not quickly transcribe the technical descriptions set forth in this document as trillions of ones and zeroes billions of single lines of assembly level machine code millions of logic gates thousands of gate arrays or any number of intermediate levels of abstractions. However if any such low level technical descriptions were to replace the present technical description a person of skill in the art could encounter undue difficulty in implementing the disclosure because such a low level technical description would likely add complexity without a corresponding benefit e.g. by describing the subject matter utilizing the conventions of one or more vendor specific pieces of hardware . Thus the use of functional operational technical descriptions assists those of skill in the art by separating the technical descriptions from the conventions of any vendor specific piece of hardware.

In view of the foregoing the logical operations functions set forth in the present technical description are representative of static or sequenced specifications of various ordered matter elements in order that such specifications may be comprehensible to the human mind and adaptable to create many various hardware configurations. The logical operations functions disclosed herein should be treated as such and should not be disparagingly characterized as abstract ideas merely because the specifications they represent are presented in a manner that one of skill in the art can readily understand and apply in a manner independent of a specific vendor s hardware implementation.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines compositions of matter and articles of manufacture limited to patentable subject matter under 35 USC 101. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures. Electronic circuitry for example may have one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media may be configured to bear a device detectable implementation when such media hold or transmit device detectable instructions operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example implementations may include an update or modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of virtually any functional operations described herein. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example implementations may be provided in whole or in part by source code such as C or other code sequences. In other implementations source or other code implementation using commercially available and or techniques in the art may be compiled implemented translated converted into a high level descriptor language e.g. initially implementing described technologies in C or C programming language and thereafter converting the programming language implementation into a logic synthesizable language implementation a hardware description language implementation a hardware design simulation implementation and or other such similar mode s of expression . For example some or all of a logical expression e.g. computer programming language implementation may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description e.g. via Hardware Description Language HDL and or Very High Speed Integrated Circuit Hardware Descriptor Language VHDL or other circuitry model which may then be used to create a physical implementation having hardware e.g. an Application Specific Integrated Circuit . Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other structures in light of these teachings.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to implement devices and or processes and or systems and thereafter use engineering and or other practices to integrate such implemented devices and or processes and or systems into more comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes and or systems described herein can be integrated into other devices and or processes and or systems via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that examples of such other devices and or processes and or systems might include as appropriate to context and application all or part of devices and or processes and or systems of a an air conveyance e.g. an airplane rocket helicopter etc. b a ground conveyance e.g. a car truck locomotive tank armored personnel carrier etc. c a building e.g. a home warehouse office etc. d an appliance e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine a dryer etc. e a communications system e.g. a networked system a telephone system a Voice over IP system etc. f a business entity e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP entity such as Comcast Cable Qwest Southwestern Bell etc. or g a wired wireless services entity e.g. Sprint Cingular Nextel etc. etc.

In certain cases use of a system or method may occur in a territory even if components are located outside the territory. For example in a distributed computing context use of a distributed computing system may occur in a territory even though parts of the system may be located outside of the territory e.g. relay server processor signal bearing medium transmitting computer receiving computer etc. located outside the territory .

A sale of a system or method may likewise occur in a territory even if components of the system or method are located and or used outside the territory. Further implementation of at least part of a system for performing a method in one territory does not preclude use of the system in another territory

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof limited to patentable subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs e.g. graphene based circuitry . Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical image processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a mote system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical mote system generally includes one or more memories such as volatile or non volatile memories processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems user interfaces drivers sensors actuators applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. an antenna USB ports acoustic ports etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing or estimating position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A mote system may be implemented utilizing suitable components such as those found in mote computing communication systems. Specific examples of such components entail such as Intel Corporation s and or Crossbow Corporation s mote components and supporting hardware software and or firmware.

For the purposes of this application cloud computing may be understood as described in the cloud computing literature. For example cloud computing may be methods and or systems for the delivery of computational capacity and or storage capacity as a service. The cloud may refer to one or more hardware and or software components that deliver or assist in the delivery of computational and or storage capacity including but not limited to one or more of a client an application a platform an infrastructure and or a server The cloud may refer to any of the hardware and or software associated with a client an application a platform an infrastructure and or a server. For example cloud and cloud computing may refer to one or more of a computer a processor a storage medium a router a switch a modem a virtual machine e.g. a virtual server a data center an operating system a middleware a firmware a hardware back end a software back end and or a software application. A cloud may refer to a private cloud a public cloud a hybrid cloud and or a community cloud. A cloud may be a shared pool of configurable computing resources which may be public private semi private distributable scaleable flexible temporary virtual and or physical. A cloud or cloud service may be delivered over one or more types of network e.g. a mobile communication network and the Internet.

As used in this application a cloud or a cloud service may include one or more of infrastructure as a service IaaS platform as a service PaaS software as a service SaaS and or desktop as a service DaaS . As a non exclusive example IaaS may include e.g. one or more virtual server instantiations that may start stop access and or configure virtual servers and or storage centers e.g. providing one or more processors storage space and or network resources on demand e.g. EMC and Rackspace . PaaS may include e.g. one or more software and or development tools hosted on an infrastructure e.g. a computing platform and or a solution stack from which the client can create software interfaces and applications e.g. Microsoft Azure . SaaS may include e.g. software hosted by a service provider and accessible over a network e.g. the software for the application and or the data associated with that software application may be kept on the network e.g. Google Apps SalesForce . DaaS may include e.g. providing desktop applications data and or services for the user over a network e.g. providing a multi application framework the applications in the framework the data associated with the applications and or services related to the applications and or the data over the network e.g. Citrix . The foregoing is intended to be exemplary of the types of systems and or methods referred to in this application as cloud or cloud computing and should not be considered complete or exhaustive.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

To the extent that formal outline headings are present in this application it is to be understood that the outline headings are for presentation purposes and that different types of subject matter may be discussed throughout the application e.g. device s structure s may be described under process es operations heading s and or process es operations may be discussed under structure s process es headings and or descriptions of single topics may span two or more topic headings . Hence any use of formal outline headings in this application is for presentation purposes and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Throughout this application examples and lists are given with parentheses the abbreviation e.g. or both. Unless explicitly otherwise stated these examples and lists are merely exemplary and are non exhaustive. In most cases it would be prohibitive to list every example and every combination. Thus smaller illustrative lists and examples are used with focus on imparting understanding of the claim terms rather than limiting the scope of such terms.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations are not expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

Although user is shown described herein e.g. in and other places as a single illustrated figure those skilled in the art will appreciate that user may be representative of one or more human users robotic users e.g. computational entity and or substantially any combination thereof e.g. a user may be assisted by one or more robotic agents unless context dictates otherwise. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in general the same may be said of sender and or other entity oriented terms as such terms are used herein unless context dictates otherwise.

In some instances one or more components may be referred to herein as configured to configured by configurable to operable operative to adapted adaptable able to conformable conformed to etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that such terms e.g. configured to generally encompass active state components and or inactive state components and or standby state components unless context requires otherwise.

In known systems devices that are associated with one or more users e.g. phones tablets laptops desktops cars game systems appliances and the like may collect data regarding the user. This data may be desired by third parties. The following describes among other implementations methods and systems of managing user data collected by one or more devices that may also be useful to entities that are not the user and which entities may not necessarily have access to the data.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

With reference now to the Figures and with reference now to shows a partially schematic diagram of an environment s and or an implementation s of technologies described herein. It is noted that is a high level environment diagram. As such some elements of the system of are expressed through the function they carry out. In such circumstances these elements should be considered to include any combination of one or more module hardware program microprocessor configuration state machine firmware field programmable gate array FPGA application programming interface API function class data structure dynamically loaded library DLL database e.g. SQL database and the like.

Referring now to shows several embodiments of methods and systems for managing data data ownership data anonymity and the like in a marketplace setting with access to developers users interested third parties and the like. In some embodiments one or more devices e.g. devices A and B may be in communication with data marketplace . In some embodiments data marketplace may have a preexisting relationship with one or more of devices A and B. For example an operator e.g. a person who has control of at least one component of data marketplace may also produce operating system applications for devices A B or C. In other embodiments data marketplace and or its affiliates controllers does not have a preexisting relationship with devices A or B.

In some embodiments data marketplace may include a personal device interfacing module . Personal device interfacing module may include access requesting module access receiving module and service providing module .

In at least one embodiment a request for access to data on a device e.g. a user device A is triggered either data marketplace or by a third party communicating with data marketplace . For example data marketplace may determine that access to the contact list stored on device A is desirable. This request may be triggered by an action of user device A or may be randomly selected or may be based on some characteristic of user device A. Thus access requesting module may request access to the device sensor in exchange for providing the determined services . For example access requesting module may send a signal to the data services sandbox interfacing module of the device A. A request for access receiving module may receive the request which may be Hi USER 456 Would you like to see when you re at a location close to one of your friends We can bring you this service if you agree to limited access to your contact list Request for access receiving module then communicates with a user interface module of device A to display the message. In some embodiments the device may grant access without this step for example if the user has authorized the device to grant such access or if the device is preconfigured to allow access under particular conditions. The decision may be made by an access granting module which then transmits the grant of access to the user s contact list which is stored in the device memory as protected device data . Access granting module may transmit the grant of access to access receiving module which receives user access to the device sensor . After access is received service providing module may provide at least a portion of the service e.g. the find your close friends application to a service receiving module of data services sandbox interfacing module of device A. The providing of the service may include installing the proper components on the device A or performing one or more steps in carrying out the service or providing the device with the resources needed to carry out the service.

In some embodiments as shown in the data marketplace may include among other limitations providing authorized information to service provider in addition to providing user information for the service provider also keep information in memory for later use sale analysis optional if not integrated limited personal information transmitting module received limited personal information e.g. from optional selecting one or more of the various services received from if for example is a separate entity with its own agenda a memory and a data anonymizer module .

In some embodiments data anonymizer module may include applying at least partial anonymization to received non anonymous data . In some embodiments applying at least partial anonymization to received non anonymous data may include reversible anonymizer module and irreversible anonymizer module . In some embodiments data anonymizer module may include anonymizer using private lookup table module which in some embodiments may include private lookup table .

In some embodiments memory may include one or more of lookup table storage module private lookup table module irreversible anonymized data anonymous but de anonymizable data and partially anonymized data .

In some embodiments data marketplace may further include access requesting module access receiving module and service providing module . Access receiving module may include receiving user access to the device sensor . Service providing module may include providing at least a portion of the service .

In some embodiments data marketplace may further include Data Receiving Module for receiving data that may be partially anonymized regarding a user of the device or the device . In some embodiments module may include one or more of non anonymous data receiving from device module and anonymous data receiving from device module B. In some embodiments module may include receiving non anonymous data from a device module . In some embodiments module B may include receiving anonymous data from a device accepting anonymous data B pairing module that pairs anonymous data with device info C device identifier database and accepting quasi anonymous data module D. In some embodiments data marketplace may further include potential services receiving module .

Referring again to various embodiments may include one or more third party service providers e.g. third party service provider A and third party service provider B. In some embodiments third party service provider A may receive authorized information transmitted from module of the data marketplace . In some embodiments third party service provider A may include receiving information to carry out service module A services that can be provided determining module A limited personal information receiving module A and request to show what services can be provided with personal information request receiving module A. In some embodiments module A may include sending the determined services back to the main store module X. In some embodiments third party service provider B may include services that can be provided determining module B limited personal information receiving module B and request to show what services can be provided with personal information request receiving module B.

Referring again to various embodiments may include a third party service provider C. In some embodiments third party service provider C may receive authorized information transmitted from module of the data marketplace . In some embodiments third party service provider C may include receiving information to carry out service module C services that can be provided determining module C services that can be provided transmitting module request to show what services can be provided with personal information request receiving module C request to see available information transmitting module limited personal information availability browsing module and limited personal information block selection module . In some embodiments module C may include determining services based on various personal information blocks module .

Referring again to in some embodiments there may be a sandboxed data exchange module. In some embodiments module may provide a market for data by showing what data is available to third party developers and may provide a venue for third party developers to request different types of data or to gauge what data is available for them to design applications around. In some embodiments module may include selling data a and data b to application developer module asking App2 and App3 for Data A and Data B in return for cash or a profit share in C module B detecting that AppDev2 has Data A and AppDev3 has Data B a database that tracks which developers and or applications have which data a receiving request for Data A and Data B module and finding devices that have already granted access to Data A and Data B to different applications A.

In some embodiments data marketplace may include one or more modules or other implementations of limited access to secured information on a device D transmitting the limited personal information to one or more entities D request to service providers module C service provider services response receiving module E and data store side services selecting module F. Specifically the data marketplace may communicate with third party developers e.g. third party developers A and B as previously described. In some embodiments data marketplace may receive possible services from the third party developers. In some embodiments some selection or filtering of services may take place at data marketplace .

In some embodiments data marketplace may generate a store showing what personal information is available from devices to developers. This store e.g. limited personal information displaying to service providers module B may provide various options for third parties to view what type of data is available as shown in the examples in B. Some of those examples of data may be free to view others may have a profit sharing arrangement and still others might have an upfront cost.

In some embodiments data marketplace may include limited personal information receiving module A and generating module I that generates blocks of available limited personal information. These modules may receive data from devices or from data marketplace . Data marketplace also may include a request to display available information receiving module G transmitting or otherwise facilitating the available personal information blocks module H selection of one or more personal information blocks receiving module J and selection of one or more personal information blocks receiving module K which may communicate with one or more telecom providers as previously described. Modules G H and J may communicate with third party developers to facilitate display and selection of services from the store generated by B.

As shown in some embodiments may include a device e.g. device . Device may have a device operating system A. In some embodiments device operating system A may include hardware program firmware APIs or any combination of the above. Device operating system A may display potential new services . Device operating system A may include a displaying services module selecting one or more services module e.g. which in some embodiments may use user input A from user and transmitting module that transmits selection of services and authorization for access to more information and or sensors. Device also may include request for limited user information receiving module that receives a request from the data marketplace said request including limited access to personal information. Device also may include limited user information transmitting module and access for new services request receiving module .

Referring to in some embodiments when an application provider is separate from data marketplace then services module may interface between the application providers which will be discussed in more detail herein and the previously described data marketplace . For example services module may include showing module that shows the partially anonymized data to one or more app providers that have a services pool e.g. application provider and partially anonymized data providing module which may provide e.g. transmit partially anonymized data to a third party application provider. In some embodiments module may include price setting module and seeing services module that lest the third parties show what services they could provide for the data.

Referring again to in some embodiments there may be non anonymization devices e.g. device A and device B. In some embodiments these devices do not handle data anonymization but merely transmit data to the data marketplace and the devices may have an agreement with the data marketplace to anonymize the data or the data marketplace may provide anonymization without explicit authorization from the devices. Device A for example may include a request for access receiving module . The request for access receiving module may include receiving a list of services and or an access request or receiving a specific service or access request . The device A also may include an access granting module and a service receiving module which communicate with data marketplace to grant access to information or sensors and receive the service respectively. Device A also may include in some embodiments a device OS B including a service managing module a device memory A a storing data related to service module receiving service and executing service . Device OS B may communicate with or include as part of itself a non anonymous data transmitting module C. Module C may transmit non anonymous data to a location .

Similarly in some embodiments a device B may include a device OS D a device memory E a non anonymous data transmitting module G that transmits non anonymous data to a location. As shown in device B may similarly transmit data that has not been anonymized e.g. that can be used to identify the device to the data marketplace .

Referring again to in some embodiments app provider may be part of data marketplace or may be a separate entity from data marketplace . App provider may include a data receiving module that receives the data from the devices directly or after it has been anonymized from the data marketplace . App provider may include services determining module access requesting module information receiving module and services pool . Services pool may include service A which needs access to a contact list and provides updates when the device is close to other devices on the contact list service B which needs access to GPS sensors and provides healthy restaurant alternatives based on the device location and service C which needs access to the calendar on the device and provides a service of showing the user places that the user can get into and out of in time for the user to be on time for his or her next event in the calendar.

Referring again to in some embodiments there may be a device that handles data anonymization on the device side. Specifically device may include a device OS B that includes a device memory D and a device side anonymizing module E that takes the data from device memory D and anoynymizes it. The data is then transmitted to module F which transmits the anonymous or partially anonymous data to data marketplace . In some embodiments anonymization is provided at both the device side and at the store side and in some embodiments a portion of the anonymization is carried out at both the store side and the device side and the combination results in anonymous data.

Thus in the embodiments described above a marketplace is created for access to a user s data and services that might be provided in exchange for that access. In that marketplace users developers third party providers telecoms and other entities may exchange services and access in a marketplace where identity and access is protected but information about availability is facilitated. The exemplary embodiment describing access to a user s contact list in exchange for an application that will alert when friends are close is just one of many varied implementations and interactions that may take place. In addition third party service providers may interact with the data for which access is managed by the data marketplace in any various ways which are not all described in detail previously. An example is given in the example interface within limited personal information module B communicating with the third party provider as described in more detail previously.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

In some embodiments a method includes receiving at least partially anonymized data regarding a user of the device determine one or more services the user of the device might want at least partly based on the received partially anonymized data requesting access to the device sensor of the device in exchange for providing the one or more determined services receiving access to the device sensor and providing at least a portion of the one or more services could be as simple as downloading an app .

In some embodiments a method includes transmitting at least partially anonymized data regarding a user of the device receiving a list of one or more services the user of that could be provided at least partly based on the data not previously transmitted but configured to be collected receiving a request for access to the data in return for providing one or more of the services providing access to the data and receiving at least a portion of the one or more services could be as simple as receiving an app that can run the services .

In some embodiments a method includes receiving encrypted anonymized data that could be un anonymized if the correct key was received A reading limited portions of the encrypted data to determine one or more services the user might want requesting access to the device sensor of a user in exchange for providing services and receiving the unlock key to unlock the rest of the data in return for providing the one or more services .

In some embodiments a method includes collecting data including at least one set of a user ID and at least one piece of information regarding the user for example a set of user 34024 GPS log for each of the data collected anonymizing the data by replacing the user ID with generic information or deleting the information all together the generic information could be like male GPS log male 02654 or male age 34 GPS log taken from information user 34204 GPS log creating a non recoverable key table e.g. using encryption private public key etc. configured to convert the generic information back into personally identifiable data and making the anonymized data available to third parties to determine whether the third party has one or more services to provide to the user either individually or collectively OR transmitting the anonymized data to a third party who may be interested in providing services to the device .

In some embodiments a method includes requesting limited access to personal information e.g. location data in return for figuring out what services are wanted determining what services might be wanted based on the limited access to personal information facilitating presentation of the services at a device and requesting greater access to personal information in return for providing the services .

In some embodiments a method includes having limited access to personal information including location data D transmitting the limited personal information to one or more entities configured to provide one or more services D requesting that one or more entities show what services they could provide in return for access to the data perhaps inherently showing third parties the limited personal information C selecting one or more of the third party services based on one or more factors F showing the third party services to the user and letting him select one possibly with some filtering but the selection gives A the right to get the data and give it to the third party and giving the data to the third party and possibly keeping it for themselves .

In some embodiments a method includes receiving a request to display available personal information blocks G facilitating presentation of one or more available personal information blocks B receiving a selection of the one or more available personal information blocks J and giving the data to the third party and possibly keeping it for themselves .

In some embodiments a method includes monitoring a set of activities carried out by a user of a device This assumes we already have the limited access baked in retrieving information about capabilities of the device presenting at a relevant time the device with one or more activities that the device could do at least partly based on the activities and partly based on the capabilities of the device wherein said one or more activities could be carried out with access to one or more pieces of information and and requesting access to the one or more pieces of information in exchange for carrying out the one or more activities. 

In some embodiments a method includes detecting one or more device sensors to which access is restricted e.g. doesn t have to be denied could be just restricted determining a service that would require usage of the device sensor this could be based on just about anything B presenting a request for access to the device sensor to the user and receiving permission to access the device sensor to which access is restricted Q .

In some embodiments a method includes detecting that access is given to one or more applications to one or more device sensors to provide one or more services detecting that the one or more services are completed and the device still has access to the one or more device sensors and informing the user that the one or more services are completed and asking if the user wants to continue granting access knowing that the service will be discontinued if the access is cut off . Optionally if the user says no presenting more services that the user might want .

In some embodiments a method includes detecting based on data transmitted over a network one or more services a user might want determining if there are any third parties that want access to the data transmitted over the network A suggesting services in exchange for getting to use that information this might be as simple as increasing data speed and receiving permission to use the information in exchange for services. Optionally selling the received information .

In some embodiments a method includes monitoring a set of activities carried out by a user of a device monitoring current conditions of a device and facilitating presentation on the device of one or more activities that the device could do at least partly based on the current conditions and partly based on the capabilities of the device in a matrix with access that has to be granted in order to have the one or more activities performed .

In some embodiments a method includes monitoring one or more devices to determine one or more pieces of information collected e.g. temperature data determining how many devices are collecting a particular type of data receiving a query regarding one or more specific types of data how many devices are moving at 6 mph for at least 30 minutes on a day over 80 degrees and presenting transmitting a result of the received query .

In some embodiments a method includes receiving an indication that an application needs data A and data B to provide service C receiving an indication that application X has rights to data A and application Y has rights to data B B and asking application X for data A and application Y for data B with the application in exchange for a share of C s profits .

In some embodiments a method includes receiving an indication that an application needs data A and data B to provide service C determining how many devices already have apps with access to data A and access to data B A and querying those devices that since they ve already granted permission for data A and data B to other apps would they be interested in getting service C and or giving service C access to data A and data B A .

In an embodiment as shown in data from a device e.g. device A is acquired e.g. non anonymous data A is acquired at store . Non anonymous data A is related to a device memory A of device A. After receiving non anonymous data A from device a data anonymizer may apply one or more operations e.g. anonymization operations to non anonymous data A. For example one or more encryption algorithms or data obscuring techniques may be applied. In an embodiment of the invention for example data nonymizer may include an anonymizer using private lookup table module . Anonymizer using private lookup table module may apply private lookup table to non anonymous data A to arrive at anonymous data . Anonymous data may be de anonymizable.

In an embodiment anonymous data may be transmitted to an application provider . Application provider may include a services determining module that determines one or more services the user of the device might want at least partly based on the received anonymized data . For example based on the anonymized data services determining module may determine that if there are 25 000 users with twenty or more contacts then there is a sufficient information base to work with to get copies of those contacts. Then application provider may retrieve service A from a services pool . Service A is a service that is a where are your friends application that causes a notification to be generated when a user is within a particular proximity to a person on that user s contact list. Service A may already be present in services pool or may be created by application provider .

In an embodiment application provider may transmit the determined service A to the store . This transmission may be external and may involve one or more communication networks if application provider and store are separate entities. If application provider and store are not separate entities this transmission may be internal e.g. via a bus or via an exchange of data between two applications with different rights to various data and or services.

In an embodiment after the store receives determined service A access requesting module of store presents service A to the device and requests greater access to personal information in return for providing the services. For example access requesting module instructs device 00123 to present a message of Hi USER 456 Would you like to see when you re at a location close to one of your friends We can bring you this service if you agree to let us access your contact list. This request is received by the device e.g. device A at request for access receiving module . Module presents the request and interfaces with user . If the access is granted then access granting module of device A transmits the grant of access to an access receiving module of store . At that point access receiving module retrieves the user s contact list and service providing module provides the service A.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to claims containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that typically a disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms unless context dictates otherwise. For example the phrase A or B will be typically understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

This application may make reference to one or more trademarks e.g. a word letter symbol or device adopted by one manufacturer or merchant and used to identify and or distinguish his or her product from those of others. Trademark names used herein are set forth in such language that makes clear their identity that distinguishes them from common descriptive nouns that have fixed and definite meanings or in many if not all cases are accompanied by other specific identification using terms not covered by trademark. In addition trademark names used herein have meanings that are well known and defined in the literature or do not refer to products or compounds for which knowledge of one or more trade secrets is required in order to divine their meaning. All trademarks referenced in this application are the property of their respective owners and the appearance of one or more trademarks in this application does not diminish or otherwise adversely affect the validity of the one or more trademarks. All trademarks registered or unregistered that appear in this application are assumed to include a proper trademark symbol e.g. the circle R or bracketed capitalization e.g. trademark name even when such trademark symbol does not explicitly appear next to the trademark. To the extent a trademark is used in a descriptive manner to refer to a product or process that trademark should be interpreted to represent the corresponding product or process as of the date of the filing of this patent application.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing specific exemplary processes and or devices and or technologies are representative of more general processes and or devices and or technologies taught elsewhere herein such as in the claims filed herewith and or elsewhere in the present application.

