---

title: Group bounding box region-constrained placement for integrated circuit design
abstract: Among other things, one or more systems and techniques for defining a group bounding box for related cells of an integrated circuit, and generating a new layout for the integrated circuit comprising the group bounding box are provided herein. That is, one or more group bounding boxes are defined based upon positional values of related cells. Such group bounding boxes are placed within the new layout based upon a placement technique, such as an objective function that takes into account wire length, timing, and cell density, for example. The one or more group bounding boxes are sized or reshaped to reduce cell overlap within the new layout. In this way, the new layout comprises related cells, bound by one or more group bounding boxes, that are placed within the new layout according to a configuration that mitigates wire length and timing delay of the integrated circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08701070&OS=08701070&RS=08701070
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08701070
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120913
---
Electronic design tools such as electronic design automation EDA tools allow designers to design simulate and analyze electronic components such as integrated circuits. For example a designer can create a macro floor plan for an integrated circuit using an EDA tool. The macro floor plan comprises a macroscopic layout of one or more cells configured to implement logic or electronic functions using particular integrated circuit technology. The EDA tool performs placement of cells within a layout which can be used for simulation or a physical layout for fabrication. The layout can be simulated to perform timing analysis to determine whether the layout performs within particular timing constraints. To further improve design performance the designer can specify constraints such as bound locations and sizes within which cells are to be placed. However conventional EDA tools cannot automatically determine such constraints or have limited capability for placement of cells based upon constraints which leaves this task to designers for manual handling. However because the designer does not know what bound locations and sizes are most efficient such as a layout resulting in a relatively fast circuit design the designer can iteratively adjust bound locations and sizes based upon multiple simulations. Such an iterative process can take months to complete.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more techniques and methods for defining a group bounding box for one or more cells of an integrated circuit and creating a new layout for the integrated circuit are provided. In some embodiments of defining a group bounding box for one or more cells of an integrated circuit a macro floor plan for the integrated circuit is received. For example a designer can create the macro floor plan comprising an initial layout of one or more cells of the integrated circuit. To aid in creating a new layout from the macro floor plan a group bounding box for one or more first related cells of the initial layout is defined. For example the group bounding box is defined based upon a centroid a width and a height associated with the one or more first related cells. The centroid is identified based upon an average of center values for the one or more first related cells. The width and height are identified based upon a total cell area and a bound aspect ratio. In this way a boundary for the group bounding box is defined based upon the centroid the width and the height. The one or more first related cells are projected along the boundary. In this way the group bounding box is used to create the new layout for the integrated circuit such that a placement location and size of the group bounding box can influence where the one or more first related cells are placed within the new layout.

In some embodiments one or more group bounding boxes are defined for the new layout. For example a second group bounding box for one or more second related cells of the initial layout is defined. The one or more group bounding boxes are placed within the new layout based upon one or more timing paths between related cells of group bounding boxes. For example a timing path between a first related cell of the first group bounding box and a second related cell of the second group bounding box is identified. The timing path and other timing paths are taken into account during placement of one or more group bounding boxes within the new layout such that timing delay of the integrated circuit is mitigated which can improve computational speed of the integrated circuit. For example an objective function defined according to an objective and a constraint is used to place the one or more group bounding boxes within the new layout. The objective is based upon a wire length parameter or a timing parameter and the constraint is based upon a density parameter for group bounding box overlap. In this way the new layout comprises one or more cells bounded by one or more group bounding boxes that are automatically placed and sized within the new layout such as within a few days for example whereas conventional techniques take several months.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Defining a group bounding box for one or more cells of an integrated circuit in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At a macro floor plan for the integrated circuit is received. The macro floor plan comprises an initial layout of the integrated circuit. For example the macro floor plan comprises a macroscopic layout of one or more cells of the integrated circuit such as a cell configured to implement logic or electronic functionality. Because a designer of the macro floor plan may not have placed the one or more cells within the initial layout based upon in depth timing analysis feedback a new layout can be created that comprises the one or more cells that are placed according to one or more group bounding boxes that are located and are sized to mitigate timing delay of the integrated circuit.

Accordingly to facilitate placement of the one or more cells within the new layout with improve timing for the integrated circuit such as by reducing wire length or signal delay for example a group bounding box for one or more first related cells of the initial layout is defined at . In an example the one or more first related cells are identified based upon a bound configuration for the macro floor plan such as a bound configuration file specifying that the group bounding box is to be created for the one or more first related cells. However the bound configuration file does not comprise an optimized location size or configuration for the group bounding box.

In an example of defining the group bounding box a centroid for the one or more first related cells is identified based upon an average of center values for the one or more first related cells. For example a first centroid for a group bounding box and a second centroid for a second group bounding box as illustrated in are identified. A width W for the group bounding box is identified based upon a total cell area A and a bound aspect ratio p Height Width . For example the width is set to a square root of the total cell area divided by the bound aspect ratio

Because the integrated circuit can comprise multiple related cell sets a second group bounding box for one or more second related cells of the initial layout is defined. Timing information associated with connections between cells of the integrated circuit can be utilized during placement of the first group bounding box the second group bounding box or other group bounding boxes within the new layout. In an example a timing path between a first related cell such as a first register of the first group bounding box and a second related cell such as a second register of the second group bounding box is identified. For example a first timing path and a second timing path as illustrated in are identified. The timing path relates to a connection such as a wire or logic between the first related cell and the second related cell. In an example of identifying a timing path a first virtual pin for the first related cell is projected along a first boundary of a first group bounding box and a second virtual pin for the second related cell is projected along a second boundary of the second group bounding box. In this way the timing path between the first virtual pin and the second virtual pin is identified.

Timing paths are taken into account when placing one or more group bounding boxes within the new layout because the timing paths can be evaluated to determine timing parameters or wire length parameters that are used to identify a desired placement of cells that mitigates timing delay of the integrated circuit. For example the first group bounding box is placed with respect to the second group bounding box within the new layout such that a wire length parameter or a timing parameter is below a threshold value. In this way the first group bounding box is placed at a location that reduces wire length or timing delay of one or more first related cells bound to the first group bounding box. In an example of placing a group bounding box an objective function is applied to one or more group bounding boxes to determine a placement for the group bounding box within the new layout. The objective function is based upon an objective and a constraint. The objective is defined based upon a wire length parameter or a timing parameter in order to achieve a reduced wire length or timing delay. The constraint is based upon a density parameter for group bounding box overlap in order to achieve a substantially regular distribution of group bounding boxes without substantial overlap of group bounding boxes within the new layout. The objective function can be used to dynamically adjust a placement location or boundary size of the group bounding box which can mitigate potential congestion hotspots caused by relatively high group bounding box density.

Overlap between group bounding boxes can be mitigated by adjusting a shape of a group bounding box. In one example a shape of a first group bounding box is adjusted based upon an overlap between a first overlap portion of the first group bounding box and a second overlap portion of a second group bounding box. For example as illustrated in a first overlap portion of group bounding box positioned at overlap is adjusted to a new position that does not result in overlap. To effect such an adjustment one or more support cutlines for the first overlap portion are created for example based upon the overlap. The one or more support cutlines define a new position such as a non overlapping location at which the first overlap portion is to be shifted to mitigate the overlap. In this way the first overlap portion is shifted with respect to the one or more supporting cutlines.

A layout script for placement of one or more group bounding boxes within the new layout for the integrated circuit is generated. An electronic design tool can utilize the layout script to create a physical layout for the integrated circuit. The physical layout is based upon the placement of the one or more group bounding boxes. A group bounding box constrains the placement of one or more related cells to a boundary of the group bounding box. Group bounding boxes are placed with respect to one another within the new layout based upon a placement technique such as the objective function in order to mitigate timing delay or wire length. In this way a designer of the integrated circuit does not have to perform a lengthy manual process of iteratively simulating and adjusting the integrate circuit to identify a desired layout.

Generating a new layout for an integrated circuit in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At one or more related cell sets of an integrated circuit which are to be placed within a new layout for the integrated circuit are identified. A related cell set comprises one or more related cells that are to be placed within or bounded by a group bounding box. For example a macro floor plan comprises an initial layout of the one or more related cell sets. However in one example the macro floor plan does not comprise finalized locations or sizes for one or more group bounding boxes that are to be placed within the new layout. Instead a bound configuration file specifies that the one or more related cell sets are to be placed within group bounding boxes within the new layout which is used to identify the one or more related cell sets.

At for respective related cell sets a group bounding box is defined for one or more related cells within a related cell set. The group bounding box is defined based upon a centroid a width and a height derived from the related cells within the related cell set such as illustrated in for example. For example the centroid comprises an average of center values for the related cells within the related cell set the width is based upon a square root of a total cell area divided by a bound aspect ratio for example and the height is based upon a square root of the total cell area multiplied by the bound aspect ratio for example. In this way one or more group bounding boxes are defined for respective related cell sets such as a first group bounding box for a first related cell set a second group bounding box for a second related cell set etc.

At the one or more group bounding boxes are placed within the new layout for the integrated circuit. For example a location size and shape are determined for a group bounding box. In one example of placing a group bounding box the group bounding box is placed based upon an objective function. The objective function is defined according to an objective and a constraint. The objective is based upon a wire length parameter or a timing parameter such that wire length or timing delay of the integrated circuit is reduced. The constraint is based upon a density parameter for group bounding box overlap such that dense areas of cells congested hot spots are mitigated to achieve a substantially even non congested distribution of cells within the new layout. In this way the new layout comprises one or more group bounding boxes that bind cells to particular locations within the new layout to achieve a physical layout for the integrated circuit that mitigates timing delays and wire length.

A related cell set comprises one or more related cells such as registers or computational logic which are to be placed within a group bounding box. Accordingly the group bounding box definition component is configured to define group bounding boxes for respective related cell sets. For example the group bounding box definition component defines a first group bounding box for respective first related cells within a first related cell set based upon a centroid a width and a height such as is illustrated in for example. The group bounding box definition component defines a boundary for the first group bounding box based upon the centroid the width and the height. In this way the group bounding box definition component binds respective first related cells to the boundary of the first group bounding box such as illustrated in for example. Because overlap can occur between the first group bounding box and a second group bounding box the group bounding box definition component is configured to adjust a shape of the first group bounding box based upon an overlap between a first overlap portion of the first group bounding box and a second overlap portion of the second group bounding box such as illustrated in for example.

The placement component is configured to place the group bounding boxes within the new layout for the integrated circuit. In an example the placement component is configured to place a group bounding box within the new layout based upon a timing path associated with a related cell of the group bounding box. The timing path corresponds to timing information associated with a connection such as a wire between the related cell and a second related cell of a second group bounding box which can affect timing and performance of the integrated circuit. Accordingly the placement component places the group bounding box within the new layout such that timing delay of the timing path is reduced. For example the placement component places the group bounding box at a placement location or sizes the group bounding box to a size or shape that reduces a length of the wire that connects the related cell and the second related cell. In another example the placement component is configured to place the group bounding boxes according to an objective function that is defined based upon an objective and a constraint. The objective is based upon a wire length parameter or a timing parameter such that wire lengths or timing delay of the integrated circuit are reduced. The constraint is based upon a density parameter for group bounding box overlap such that dense areas of cells are reduced to achieve a substantially even distribution of cells within the new layout . In this way the new layout comprises one or more group bounding boxes that bind cells to particular locations within the new layout to achieve a physical layout for the integrated circuit that mitigates timing delays and wire length for example.

In an example of identifying a group bounding box a first related cell set comprising a first cell a second cell a third cell a fourth cell and a fifth cell is identified. A first centroid of the first related cell set is identified based upon an average of center values of the first cell the second cell the third cell the fourth cell and the fifth cell . A width w for the group bounding box is identified as a square root of a total cell area Adivided by a bound aspect ratio p Height Width such that the width

In an example of identifying a group bounding box a second related cell set comprising a sixth cell a seventh cell an eighth cell and a ninth cell is identified. A second centroid of the second related cell set is identified based upon an average of center values of the sixth cell the seventh cell the eighth cell and the ninth cell . A second width w for the second group bounding box is identified as a square root of a second total cell area Adivided by a second bound aspect ratio p such that the second width

A second group bounding box is associated with an eighth cell such as a third register and a ninth cell such as a fourth register and other related cells such as are illustrated in for example. The second group bounding box comprises a second boundary illustrated by a dotted line of the second group bounding box . The eighth cell is projected to a third virtual pin along the boundary and the ninth cell is projected to a fourth virtual pin along the second boundary. In an example the eighth cell retains its original location with respect to the second group bounding box because the eighth cell is already located along the second boundary. However the ninth cell is moved from an original location to a new location at the fourth virtual pin because the ninth cell is located outside the second boundary. For example the new location is defined along the second boundary based upon a point along the second boundary that is associated with a projection from a centroid of the second group bounding box through the point along the second boundary to the ninth cell . In this way the ninth cell is relocated to the fourth virtual pin along the second boundary.

In an example of identifying a timing path the first timing path is identified based upon a first connection such as through a wire or logic between the fourth cell of the first group bounding box and the eighth cell of the second group bounding box . A second timing path is identified based upon a second connection such as through a wire or logic between the fifth cell of the first group bounding box and the ninth cell at the fourth virtual pin of the second group bounding box . In this way the first timing path and the second timing are used to place or size the first group bounding box and the second group bounding box within a new layout in order to reduce signal timing delays along the first timing path and the second timing path . In one example an objective function that takes into account a wire length parameter or a timing parameter that are based upon the first timing path and the second timing path can be applied to the first group bounding box and the second group bounding box in order to place such group bounding boxes within the new layout. In order to mitigate overlap of group bounding boxes the objective function can take into account a density parameter to mitigate congested hot spots comprising a density or overlap of cells above a threshold value.

In an example of adjusting the first group bounding box the group bounding box definition component identifies the overlap between a first overlap portion of the first group bounding box and a second overlap portion of the second group bounding box . The group bounding box definition component determines one or more supporting cutlines that can be used to shift the first overlap portion of the first group bounding box to reduce the overlap . It is appreciated that different sets of supporting cutlines can be determined because the first overlap portion can be adjusted in one or more ways to reduce the overlap . In this way a particular set of supporting cutlines can be used to shift the first overlap portion such that timing delay or wire length can be mitigated. In an example a first supporting cutline and a second supporting cutline are used to shift the first overlap portion to a new position thus resulting in a new shape of the first group bounding box that does not overlap the second group bounding box . In this way timing delay can be mitigated by reducing cell overlap that can cause congested hotspots of cells.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for defining a group bounding box for one or more cells of an integrated circuit is provided. The method comprises receiving a macro floor plan for the integrated circuit. The macro floor plan comprises an initial layout of the integrated circuit. A group bounding box for one or more first related cells of the initial layout is defined. The group bounding box can be placed within a new layout at a particular location size and shape to mitigate timing delay of the integrated circuit.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for generating a new layout for an integrated circuit is provided. The system comprises a group bounding box definition component. The group bounding box definition component is configured to identify one or more related cell sets of the integrated circuit to place within a new layout for the integrated circuit. A related cell set comprises one or more related cells to place within a group bounding box such as along a boundary of the group bounding box. For respective related cell sets the group bounding box definition component is configured to define a group bounding box for respective related cells within a related cell set. The system comprises a placement component configured to place one or more group bounding boxes within the new layout for the integrated circuit. For example a group bounding box can be placed within the new layout at a particular location size and shape to mitigate timing delay of the integrated circuit.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for generating a new layout for an integrated circuit is provided. The method comprises identifying one or more related cell sets of the integrated circuit to place within the new layout for the integrated circuit. A related cell set comprises one or more related cells to place within a group bounding box. For respective related cell sets a group bounding box is defined for respective related cells within a related cell set based upon a centroid a width and a height derived from respective related cells within the related cell set. One or more group bounding boxes are placed within the new layout based upon an objective function defined according to an objective and a constraint. The objective is based upon at least one of a wire length parameter or a timing parameter. The constraint is based upon a density parameter for group bounding box overlap. In this way the new layout is generated.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device may also include communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

