---

title: Methods and devices for controlling camera image capture
abstract: Methods and devices for controlling the number of consecutive images captured in a burst operating mode are described. In one example embodiment, the present disclosure describes a method implemented by a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device has a camera module. The camera module is configured to temporarily capture a number of consecutive images to an image buffer when operation of the camera module is triggered. The method includes: obtaining motion data from a motion sensor on the electronic device; and based on the motion data, controlling the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module when operation of the camera module is triggered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148567&OS=09148567&RS=09148567
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09148567
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120921
---
The present disclosure relates to camera management and more particularly to methods and devices for controlling the number of consecutive images captured by a camera.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are often equipped with one or more cameras. For example electronic devices may be equipped with a front facing camera which is oriented to capture an image of a subject located near a side of the electronic device which includes the main display of the electronic device. Electronic devices may also be equipped with a rear facing camera which is oriented to capture an image of a subject located near a side of the electronic device which does not include the main display of the electronic device.

Images captured by the cameras on the electronic device may often be susceptible to image blur. That is the image may be blurred due to camera movements when capturing the image. For example a user of the electronic device may inadvertently shake the camera when capturing an image resulting in the image being blurred.

In one example embodiment the present disclosure describes a method implemented by a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device has a camera module. The camera module is configured to temporarily capture a number of consecutive images to an image buffer when operation of the camera module is triggered. The method includes obtaining motion data from a motion sensor on the electronic device and based on the motion data controlling the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module when operation of the camera module is triggered.

In another aspect the present disclosure describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a memory and a camera module configured to temporarily capture a number of consecutive images to an image buffer when operation of the camera module is triggered. The electronic device further includes a motion sensor and a processor coupled to the memory the camera module and the motion sensor. The processor is configured to obtain motion data from the motion sensor and based on the motion data control the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module when operation of the camera module is triggered.

In yet a further aspect the present disclosure describes a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium includes computer executable instructions which when executed configure a processor to obtain motion data from a motion sensor on an electronic device and based on the motion data control the number of consecutive images captured by a camera module of the electronic device when operation of the camera module is triggered.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a mobile communication device. That is the electronic device is configured to communicate with other electronic devices servers and or systems i.e. it is a communication device and the electronic device is portable and may be easily moved between different physical locations i.e. it is a mobile device . However in other example embodiments the electronic device may not be portable i.e. may not be a mobile device and or may not be configured to communicate with other systems i.e. may not be a communication device .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also in various example embodiments be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device an electronic device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a housing housing the components of the electronic device . The internal components of the electronic device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker one or more input interfaces such as a camera module a microphone a motion sensor a keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display and or other input interfaces memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate. The wireless network may include one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and or a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and or other suitable network arrangements. In some example embodiments the electronic device is configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network via the wireless communication subsystem after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

In at least some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback i.e. touch feedback .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module which may be flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

The electronic device includes a camera module . The camera module is capable of capturing camera data such as images in which case the camera data may be referred to as image data in the form of still photo and or motion data. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with the camera module .

The camera module may include various components that assist in the capturing of images. For example the camera module may include an image sensor one or more lens elements a shutter an infrared IR cut off filter a storage card etc. In at least some example embodiments the camera module may additionally include an image buffer .

The image buffer is provided in memory for example RAM which temporarily stores image data of a captured image prior to the image being processed and or stored in memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device . That is the image buffer temporarily holds the image data before it is written out to the permanent memory of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the image buffer may allow for a burst operating mode of the camera module . That is the camera module may allow capture of a number of consecutive images for each camera module trigger i.e. for each shutter release input . The number of consecutive images captured may depend upon the capacity of the associated image buffer which temporarily stores the consecutive images. In at least some example embodiments the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module on the image buffer may be varied. That is the capacity of the image buffer may be of a variable length as opposed to a fixed length and its capacity may be manipulated to control the number of consecutive images captured for storage.

In the illustrated example the image buffer is shown as part of the camera module . However in at least some example embodiments it will be appreciated that the image buffer may not be included within the camera module . For example the image buffer may be a stand alone component or part of the RAM of the electronic device .

The camera module may be configured as a front facing camera or a rear facing camera. A front facing camera is provided by a camera module which is located to obtain images near a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a main display is mounted. That is when a front facing camera is provided on the electronic device the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera module is directed.

The camera module of the front facing camera may be located above or below the display . In at least some example embodiments the camera module may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face. For example the camera module may be located centrally above the display .

A rear facing camera is provided by a camera module which is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear side of the electronic device . The rear side is typically a side which does not include the main display of the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the display of the electronic device may act as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with a rear facing camera. In such example embodiments the electronic device may include various operating modes for the viewfinder for example in one operating mode the electronic device provides a wallpaper viewfinder .

The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera. The field of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

While illustrates a single camera module the electronic device may include a plurality of camera modules . For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include both a front facing camera and a rear facing camera.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include one or more sensors. For example the electronic device may include a motion sensor that detects motion i.e. movements of the electronic device or that generates information from which the motion of the electronic device can be determined. For example in at least some example embodiments the motion sensor may include a gyroscope such as a three axis gyroscope . A gyroscope is a sensor that measures the rotational velocity of the electronic device . That is the gyroscope may generate an output which specifies the rotational rate of the electronic device . For example the gyroscope may define one or more sensing axis and motion at each of the one or more sensing axis may be measured as a rotation per unit of time irrespective of the other sensing axis. Accordingly the gyroscope may generate motion data associated with movements of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the motion sensor includes an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer . An accelerometer is a sensor that measures the acceleration of the electronic device . That is the accelerometer may generate an output which specifies the magnitude and or direction of acceleration of the electronic device . The accelerometer converts acceleration from motion of the electronic device and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into a corresponding output signal. Accordingly the accelerometer may be utilized to detect motion of the electronic device and generate motion data associated with movements of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the motion sensor may be of other forms and or a combination of sensors.

As mentioned above the motion sensor may generate motion data which quantifies and or identifies the motion of the electronic device . The motion data in at least some example embodiments specifies the motion of the electronic device relative to the earth. The obtained motion data may be utilized for various purposes including configuring functions and features of the electronic device . For example in at least some example embodiments the motion data may be used to control the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module when the camera module is triggered i.e. when an instruction to capture an image is received e.g. when a shutter button is activated . That is the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module for each trigger may be varied based on detected movements of the electronic device .

It will be appreciated that the motion sensor may generate information that may be utilized for other purposes. For example the measurements of the accelerometer and or gyroscope may provide orientation of the electronic device . That is the accelerometer and or gyroscope may generate orientation data that specifies the orientation of the electronic device . Such orientation data may for example be used to influence the operation of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may switch between a portrait operating mode and a landscape operating mode based on the orientation data.

The electronic device also includes or is connectable to a power source such as a battery . The battery may be one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information image data calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory.

The electronic device in at least some example embodiments may be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download are processed by the wireless communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware e.g. a voice communication module and hardware e.g. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication e.g. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and it will be appreciated that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The processor may be electrically connected to the camera module to allow the processor to receive electronic signals representing camera data from the camera module including the image buffer .

In at least some example embodiments the software modules may include one or more camera applications or software modules which are configured for handling the electronic signals representing camera data from the camera module . The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time images defined in the electronic signals received from the camera module . The camera application may also be configured to capture images or videos by storing images or videos defined by the electronic signals received from the camera module . For example the camera application may be configured to store the images or videos to memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the images or videos may first be stored in the image buffer prior to being stored in the memory of the electronic device . The images may be stored in various formats including JPEG RAW BMP etc.

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the camera module . For example the camera application may be configured to control a camera lens aperture and or shutter speed associated with the camera module . The control of such features may in at least some embodiments be automatically performed by the camera application based on output received from a light exposure meter.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the camera module and or to control a zoom associated with the camera module . In at least some example embodiments the camera application is configured to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some example embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. The camera application in at least some example embodiments may provide image stabilization for the camera module . Image stabilization may reduce blurring associated with movement of the camera module .

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to focus the camera module on a subject. For example the camera application may be configured to control actuators of the camera module to move lenses a lens may be comprised of one or more lens elements in the camera module relative to an image sensor in the camera module . For example when capturing images of subjects which are very far from the camera module the camera application may control the actuators to cause the actuators to move the lenses away from the image sensor i.e. to magnify the subjects .

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may provide various operating modes for operating the camera module . For example the camera application may provide a burst operating mode for the camera module . That is the camera module is enabled to capture a number of consecutive images when the camera module is triggered. For example for each shutter release input a number of consecutive images are captured on to the image buffer the shutter release input may be received when a user activates a shutter release button or another input interface which allows a user to input an instruction to capture an image such as a virtual shutter release button which may be provided on a touchscreen display . One or more of the captured images may then be stored to more permanent memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device from the image buffer . Upon transfer of the images to the more permanent memory the images may be discarded from the image buffer to free up storage space on the image buffer . In at least some embodiments one or more images may be selected from the group of images that are captured to the image buffer and the other images may be discarded. That is in at least some operating modes the burst operating mode may gather a plurality of images in response to a single instruction to obtain an image and a preferred image may be selected from the plurality of images. Such selection may be automatic i.e. it may be performed without user input or may rely on user input. For example the camera application may evaluate the quality of each image and may select the highest quality image as the preferred image. Unselected images may be discarded in some embodiments and the preferred image may be committed to more permanent memory.

In at least some embodiments the quality of an image may be evaluated based on the amount of motion occurring when the image was captured. That is data from the motion sensor may be used to evaluate whether the image is likely to be high quality. The quality of the image may be associated with the amount of movement occurring at the time the image was captured. More movement may cause more blurring of features of the image. Thus images may be evaluated by correlating an image with motion data obtained when that image was captured. For example motion data may be time tagged i.e. a motion data sample may be associated with a time stamp identifying when the motion data sample was obtained and an image may also be time tagged i.e. the image may be associated with a time stamp identifying when the image was captured and images may be correlated with motion data using the times.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may associate each of the captured consecutive images with motion data representing the amount of motion occurring at the electronic device when each of the images was captured. The camera application may then determine whether the amount of motion exceeds a threshold based on the motion data associated with each of the captured images. Images that are captured when the amount of motion of the electronic device exceeds the threshold are discarded while images that are captured when the amount of motion of the electronic device is below the threshold are maintained. That is if the motion data indicates that too much motion occurred when the image was captured the electronic device may determine that the quality of the image is likely to be poor and may discard the image.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments an image may be discarded if the amount of motion occurring when the image was captured exceeds a threshold. The threshold may in some embodiments be predetermined. In some embodiments the threshold may be selected based on the amount of motion occurring for other images captured during the same burst of image captures. That is instead of evaluating the amount of motion against a fixed predetermined threshold the threshold may be variable. For example in some embodiments a predetermined number of images captured during the greatest amount of motion may be discarded.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments the electronic device may discard images captured during a burst operating mode of the electronic device based on the motion occurring when those images were captured. In some embodiments all but one image may be discarded based on the motion data. That is the electronic device may effectively select the image captured during the period of the least amount of motion and may discard all of the other images. In other embodiments the electronic device may keep a greater number of images. For example in at least some embodiments the electronic device may use the motion data to discard one or more images captured during periods of relatively high motion but may retain a plurality of images.

In some embodiments the amount of motion occurring when an image was captured may be one of a number of criteria used for evaluating images. For example the amount of motion may be used to reduce a large group of images captured during a burst operating mode to a smaller group of images and the smaller group of images may then be evaluated using further criteria to further reduce the group of images. For example in at least some embodiments the further criteria may be used to reduce the group of images into a single image i.e. it may be used to effectively select one image as the preferred image . By way of example the further criteria may perform a software based analysis on the image to identify images where a subject s eyes are closed and may discard one or more of the images where a subject s eyes are closed.

As noted above in the burst operating mode a plurality of images may be captured in response to a single input instructing the electronic device to capture an image e.g. a single shutter release input may cause a plurality of images to be captured consecutively . In at least some example embodiments in the burst operating mode the camera application may manipulate the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module . For example the camera application may obtain motion data from the motion sensor and control the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module based on the motion data when the camera module is triggered. For example in such example embodiments the camera application may determine whether the motion of the electronic device is greater than or less than a pre determined threshold. When the motion is greater than the pre determined threshold the camera application may increase the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module for each trigger and when the motion is less than the pre determined threshold the camera application may decrease the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module for each trigger.

Accordingly by controlling the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module the camera application may allow a user to capture a varying number of images based on the movements of the electronic device and the associated camera module to obtain one or more preferred images. Since motion is likely to cause image blurring more motion may cause more images to be captured thereby increasing the pool of candidate images from which a selection of a preferred image may be made.

Specific functions and features of the camera application will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

While the embodiment discussed above includes a processor coupled with a camera application which collectively act as an image signal processor to provide image related functions such as focusing in other example embodiments not shown another processor such as a dedicated image signal processor may provide some or all of these functions.

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the camera application . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the camera application may be performed by one or more other applications.

Further while the camera application has been illustrated as a stand alone application in other example embodiments the camera application may be implemented as part of the operating system or another application . Furthermore in at least some example embodiments the functions of the camera application may be provided by a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications.

As discussed above the electronic device may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a smartphone.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone .

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset or superset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the electronic device so that it is viewable at a front side of the electronic device . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the electronic device . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example electronic device also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the electronic device .

Referring now to a rear view of the example electronic device is illustrated. The example electronic device includes a camera module that is configured as a rear facing camera located on a rear side of the electronic device . That is the rear facing camera is located on a side of the electronic device which does not include the display . The rear facing camera is located so that it may capture images of subjects which are located in the rear of and or surrounding the rear side of the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may operate in at least one operating mode in which the display on the front side of the electronic device acts as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with the rear facing camera.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may also include one or more front facing cameras instead of or in addition to the rear facing camera. The front facing camera may be located on the front side of the electronic device . The front facing cameras are located so that they may capture images of subjects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the electronic device .

Referring now to a flowchart of an example method of controlling the number of consecutive images captured in response to an instruction to capture an image using a camera module is illustrated. That is the method may be used to control the number of images captured during a burst operating mode. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the camera application stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the camera application may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of .

It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above for example the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

The method includes at obtaining motion data from the motion sensor on the electronic device . That is the motion sensor generates motion data based on movements of the electronic device which is received by the electronic device .

For example in at least some example embodiments the motion sensor may be a gyroscope. In such example embodiments the gyroscope may generate motion data specifying the rotational velocity of the electronic device . That is the gyroscope may sense movements of the electronic device to generate an output that specifies the rotational rate of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the motion sensor may be an accelerometer. In such example embodiments the accelerometer may sense movements of the electronic device and generate motion data based on these associated movements. In at least some example embodiments the motion data may be generated by the accelerometer when measuring the acceleration of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include other types of sensors in addition to or instead of a gyroscope and or an accelerometer to generate the motion data. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a combination of motion sensors for example a gyroscope and an accelerometer to generate the motion data.

After obtaining the motion data the electronic device at may control the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module when the camera module is triggered based on the motion data. The motion data may be used to adjust the number of images that will be captured during a burst. For example in a burst operating mode of the electronic device where the camera module may be triggered to capture a number of consecutive images for a single shutter release input the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module may be varied depending on the motion data. For example for each shutter release input the number of consecutive images stored in the image buffer of the camera module may be changed based on the motion data of the electronic device . That is the number of images stored in the image buffer in response to a single shutter release input may be decreased or increased for each shutter release input. In at least some example embodiments the capacity of the image buffer may be varied to control the number of consecutive images captured. That is the image buffer may be set to store a particular number of consecutive images based on the motion data.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may determine whether the motion of the electronic device as represented by the motion data is greater or less than a pre determined threshold. That is the electronic device may compare the motion of the electronic device defined by the associated motion data to a pre determined threshold value. The number of consecutive images captured by the camera module may then be manipulated based on the comparison. For example when the motion of the electronic device is determined to be greater than the pre determined threshold the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module may be increased. That is the camera module may capture a larger number of consecutive images for each shutter release input. In at least some example embodiments the capacity of the image buffer may be increased in order to increase the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module . For example the capacity of the image buffer may be changed from 10 images to 20 images and accordingly the camera module may be configured to capture 20 consecutive images instead of 10 consecutive images when the camera module is triggered.

In at least some example embodiments when the motion of the electronic device is determined to be less than the pre determined threshold the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module may be decreased. That is the camera module may capture a smaller number of consecutive images for each shutter release input. In at least some example embodiments the capacity of the image buffer may be decreased in order to decrease the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module . For example the capacity of the image buffer may be changed from 10 images to 5 images and accordingly the camera module may be configured to capture 5 consecutive images instead of 10 consecutive images when the camera module is triggered.

Accordingly for larger movements of the electronic device and the associated camera module the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module in response to a shutter release input may be increased as compared with the number of images captured for relatively smaller movements of the electronic device . For example a user operating the electronic device may capture a larger number of consecutive image by the camera module during unsteady hold of the electronic device i.e. the electronic device experiences large movements that are greater than the pre determined threshold . While for smaller movements of the electronic device and the associated camera module the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module in response to a shutter release input may be decreased. For example a user operating the electronic device may capture a smaller number of consecutive images by the camera module during steady hold of the electronic device i.e. the electronic device experiences small movements that are less than the pre determined threshold . Similarly when the electronic device is moving with the movement of a user or a vehicle such as when the user is running or when electronic device is located in a vehicle such as a car the number of consecutive images that are obtained in response to a shutter release input may be increased as compared with the number of consecutive images obtained when the electronic device is stationary.

In at least some embodiments the number of images that will be captured in response to a single shutter release input may be determined in response to the receipt of an input triggering the camera module . That is when the electronic device receives an instruction instructing the electronic device to capture a burst of images the electronic device may use motion data defining the motion of the electronic device at that time in order to select the number of images to be captured by the burst.

For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may receive an input triggering the camera module . This input has been referred to as a shutter release input at various portions of this document since it is input that is traditionally associated with a shutter release button. The input may trigger the camera module to capture a number of consecutive images. That is the electronic device receives an input to release the shutter of the camera module to capture a number of consecutive images. In at least some example embodiments the input may be received when the camera module is operating within the burst operating mode and the input may effectively be interpreted as an input to capture a burst of images. The input may be received by an input interface associated with the electronic device . For example the input may be received by a navigational input device such as a trackball a trackpad or a touchscreen display or a physical keyboard associated with the electronic device to trigger the camera module . In some embodiments the input may be received via a traditional shutter release button.

In some embodiments in response to receiving the input triggering the camera module the electronic device selects the number of consecutive images to be captured based on the motion data this may occur at of as part of the controlling process . That is the number of consecutive images to be captured may be determined based on the motion data representing the motion of the electronic device and the number of consecutive images to be captured is accordingly selected to configure the operation of the camera module . In at least some example embodiments the capacity of the image buffer to store consecutive images may be manipulated to correspond to the selected number of consecutive images to be captured.

The electronic device may then capture the images in accordance with the selected number this may occur at of or sometime thereafter . These captured images are stored in the image buffer of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments one or more of the captured consecutive images may be stored in more permanent memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device . For example the captured consecutive images stored on the image buffer may be transferred for storage on to the memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device . For example the images may be copied on to the memory. In at least some example embodiments the images may be deleted from the image buffer after they are written to more permanent memory. The images stored on the memory may be retrieved manipulated and or displayed on the electronic device .

As noted previously in at least some embodiments one or more of the plurality of images that are captured in response to a single shutter release input may be selected e.g. as a preferred image and or discarded. As further noted above in at least some embodiments such selection or removal may depend in whole or in part on motion data associated with captured images.

For example at the electronic device may associate a captured image with motion data representing the amount of motion occurring at the electronic device when that captured image was obtained. That is each of the consecutive images may be associated with motion data describing the movement of the electronic device at the time each of the consecutive images was captured.

The motion data that is associated with an image is motion data that is obtained when the image is captured. Accordingly the motion data that is associated with an image may in some example embodiments not be the same motion data discussed with reference to which is the motion data that is used at to control the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module .

In at least some embodiments the motion data may be associated with the image at by adding motion data metadata to the image. The motion data metadata may be included in the same file as the image associated with that metadata. For example the motion data metadata may be included into an EXIF Exchangeable image file format format. The motion data metadata may quantify the amount of motion occurring when the image was captured and or may specify direction information associated with the motion.

For example the motion data obtained from the motion sensor of the electronic device may be time stamped. That is the electronic device may record each time when motion of the electronic device is sensed by the motion sensor and associated motion data is generated. Accordingly the motion data may be time stamped for every motion sensor reading of the electronic device. In at least some example embodiments the motion sensor may be configured to obtain time stamped motion data for each capture of a consecutive image. That is as each consecutive image is captured by the camera module the motion sensor obtains motion data representing the movement of the electronic device at the time each image is captured by the camera module and each of the images are associated with motion data representing the movement when that image was captured.

The electronic device at may determine based on the motion data associated with each of the captured images whether the amount of motion exceeds a threshold. That is the electronic device may compare the motion data associated with each of the captured images that represents the amount of motion of the electronic device to a threshold value. Images that are associated with motion data exceeding the threshold are identified i.e. images that were captured when the amount of motion of the electronic device exceeds the threshold are identified .

In at least some example embodiments the threshold is selected based on prior motion data associated with previously captured images. That is the threshold is chosen depending upon motion data associated with one or more previously captured images that represent the amount of motion of the electronic device when each of these one or more previous images was captured. For example if the prior motion data indicates a high level of movement of the electronic device i.e. the previous images were captured with a high level of motion the electronic device may select a higher threshold value. While if the prior motion data includes a low level of movement of the electronic device i.e. the previous images were captured with a low level of motion the electronic device may select a lower threshold value. The previously captured images whose associated motion data is analyzed to select the threshold may be images captured within a previous burst sequence e.g. images that are captured in response to a prior same shutter release input or the same burst sequence e.g. images that are captured in response to the same shutter release input .

The determination of the threshold may in some embodiments occur on the fly. That is in at least some embodiments the determination of the threshold may occur during a burst sequence. While the burst sequence is ongoing and images are being captured to the image buffer the electronic device may determine the threshold based on previously acquired images that were captured as part of that same burst sequence e.g. based on the motion data associated with images already stored in the image buffer .

In some embodiments the determination of the threshold may occur after a burst sequence has completed. That is in some embodiments after a burst sequence has completed the electronic device may determine the threshold based on the motion data associated with the images captured as part of that burst sequence.

At the electronic device discards captured images that are associated with motion data exceeding the threshold value. That is the images that are determined to be captured when the amount of motion of the electronic device exceeds the threshold value are discarded. For example the captured images may be deleted from the image buffer of the camera module . The deleted images may no longer be retrievable and are permanently removed from the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments not shown images may be discarded while the burst sequence is ongoing. That is the discarding of images may occur on the fly to free up capacity in the image buffer before the burst sequence has ended.

In at least some such embodiments after removing the captured images from the image buffer when the motion data associated with the captured images exceeds the threshold the camera module may capture other images to replace the discarded captured image. That is the camera module is configured to capture images in place of the deleted previously captured images. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may associate motion data with these other images to determine whether the motion data exceeds the threshold and if so delete these other images and capture further images to replace these other images. Accordingly the electronic device may continue the associating determination discarding and capturing process until a set number of consecutive images to be captured based on the motion data is reached with each image having associated motion data that is less than the threshold value for a burst sequence.

As mentioned above the electronic device may provide a burst operating mode for capturing a number of consecutive images by the camera module . In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may additionally or as part of the burst operating mode provide a continuous image acquisition mode. The continuous image acquisition mode allows the camera module to continuously capture images until a stop signal is generated and or until the image buffer is out of memory That is in the continuous image acquisition mode in response to a shutter release input the camera module begins continuously acquiring images. In the continuous image acquisition mode the number of images to be captured is not preselected before image capture begins. Rather the electronic device continues to capture images until a stop signal is generated telling the electronic device to stop capturing images.

Example embodiments of the electronic device operating within the continuous image acquisition mode for controlling the number consecutive images captured will now be described.

Referring now to a flowchart of another example method of controlling the number of consecutive images captured is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the camera application stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the camera application may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of .

It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above for example the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

In at least some example embodiments parts of the method may be performed prior to for example and and parts of the method may be performed at for example of the method of .

The method includes at receiving an input triggering the camera module e.g. receiving a shutter release input . The input may trigger the camera module to capture a number of consecutive images. That is the electronic device receives an input to release the shutter of the camera module to capture a number of consecutive images within a period of time. In at least some example embodiments the input may be received when the camera module is operating within the burst operating mode. The input may be received by an input interface associated with the electronic device . For example the input may be received by a navigational input device such as a trackball a trackpad or a touchscreen display or a physical keyboard associated with the electronic device to trigger the camera module .

In response to receiving the input to trigger the camera module the electronic device at initiates a continuous image acquisition mode in which the camera module continuously captures images until a stop signal is generated. That is the camera module is configured to continuously capture images until it is commanded to stop.

At the electronic device may control the number of consecutive images captured by the camera module based on the motion data which is obtained from the motion sensor when the camera module is triggered. is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

In the embodiment of at in controlling the number of consecutive images captured the electronic device may at generate a stop signal based on the obtained motion data. That is the stop signal may be generated depending on the movement of the electronic device and associated camera module defined by the motion data when the camera module is triggered to capture consecutive images.

For example the stop signal may be generated when the motion data indicates that at least a pre determined number of images have been captured at times when the motion of the electronic device was below a threshold. That is the electronic device may analyze the motion data to determine the number of images captured by the camera module when the motion of the electronic device is below the threshold. The motion data may provide information indicating the capture of each image by the camera module for various levels of motions of the electronic device. Accordingly the electronic device may check the motion data to determine if at least the pre determined number of images has been captured during levels of motion of the electronic device that is below the threshold. If so the electronic device generates the stop signal. Otherwise the electronic device may continue to check the motion data until the pre determined number of images are captured. In at least some example embodiments the stop signal may not be generated as the maximum number of images captured by the camera module for each trigger may be reached for example the capacity of the image buffer is reached without the camera module capturing the pre determined number of images.

In at least some example embodiments the stop signal is generated when at least one image has been captured at a point in time when the motion of the electronic device was below a threshold. That is the pre determined number of images is set to one image and the electronic device may analyze the motion data to determine if the camera module captures at least one image when the motion of the electronic device is below the threshold.

As mentioned above in at least some example embodiments when the electronic device is operating within the continuous image acquisition mode the electronic device may further associate the captured images with motion data representing the amount of motion occurring at the electronic device when the captured images were obtained determine whether the amount of motion exceeds a threshold and discard the captured images that are associated with motion data exceeding the threshold. These operations are performed in a similar manner as and respectively which are described in greater detail above with reference to .

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the flash memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

