---

title: Three-dimensional molecular imaging by infrared laser ablation electrospray ionization mass spectrometry
abstract: The field of the invention is atmospheric pressure mass spectrometry (MS), and more specifically a process and apparatus which combine infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization (ESI).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08487246&OS=08487246&RS=08487246
owner: The George Washington University
number: 08487246
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120727
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 101 518 filed on May 1 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 299 429 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 323 276 filed on Nov. 25 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 964 843 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 176 324 filed on Jul. 18 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 067 730 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 951 186 filed on Jul. 20 2007 each of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Portions of this invention were made with United States government support under Grant No. 0719232 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant No. DEFG02 01ER15129 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The field of the invention is atmospheric pressure mass spectrometry MS and more specifically a process and apparatus which combine infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization ESI to provide three dimensional molecular imaging of chemicals in specimens for example metabolites in live tissues or cells.

Three dimensional 3D tissue or cell imaging of molecular distributions offers insight into the correlation between biochemical processes and the spatial organization of cells in a tissue. Presently available methods generally rely on the interaction of electromagnetic radiation e.g. magnetic resonance imaging and fluorescence or multiphoton microscopy or particles e.g. secondary ion mass spectrometry SIMS with the specimen. For example coherent anti Stokes Raman scattering provides exquisite lateral and depth resolution for in vivo imaging of lipid distributions on cellular or subcellular level. They however typically report on only a few species and often require the introduction of molecular labels. These obstacles are less pronounced in methods based on mass spectrometry MS that report the distributions for diverse molecular species. Imaging by SIMS and matrix assisted laser desorption ionization MALDI are appealing because they capture the two and three dimensional distributions of endogenous and drug molecules in tissue and whole body sections. Characteristic to these methods is the requirement for delicate chemical and physical sample manipulation and the need to perform the imaging experiment in vacuum preventing the study of live specimens.

Ambient MS circumvents these limitations by bringing the ionization step into the atmosphere while minimizing chemical and physical treatment to the sample. During the past few years this field has experienced rapid development providing us with an array of ambient ion sources. Desorption electrospray ionization DESI in combination with MS has been successful in various applications including the detection of drugs metabolites and explosives on human fingers and the profiling of untreated bacteria. Most recently DESI and extractive electrospray ionization have been used in metabolomic fingerprinting of bacteria. In atmospheric pressure AP IR MALDI and in MALDESI a combination of MALDI and DESI the energy necessary for the desorption and ionization of the analyte is deposited by a mid IR and a UV laser respectively. In electrospray laser desorption ionization ELDI the efficiency of ion production by a UV laser is enhanced by postionization using an electrospray source.

Laser ablation electrospray ionization LAESI is an ambient technique for samples with high water content e.g. cells biological tissues aqueous solutions or wetted surfaces. The sample may be reconstituted in deionized water. LAESI achieves ionization from samples with a considerable absorption at about 3 m wavelength. A laser pulse at about 2.9 m wavelength ablates a minute volume of the sample to eject fine neutral particles and or molecules. This laser plume is intercepted by an electrospray and the ablated material is efficiently ionized to produce mass spectra similar to direct electrospray ionization. With LAESI we have demonstrated metabolic analysis of less than 100 ng tissue material from volumes below 100 pL. As in LAESI the laser energy is absorbed by the native water in the sample the photochemical damage of the biologically relevant molecules such as DNA peptides proteins and metabolites is negligible.

Ambient imaging mass spectrometry IMS captures the spatial distribution of chemicals with molecular specificity. Unlike optical imaging methods IMS does not require color or fluorescent labels for successful operation. A handful of MS based techniques has demonstrated molecular two dimensional 2D imaging in AP environment AP IR MALDI and DESI captured metabolite transport in plant vasculature and imaged drug metabolite distributions in thin tissue sections respectively. Recently through 2D imaging LAESI provided insight into metabolic differences between the differently colored sectors of variegated plants. The lateral resolution of these methods generally ranged from 100 to 300 m. For AP MALDI and LAESI improved focusing of the incident laser beam oversampling and the use of sharpened optical fibers for ablation could offer further advances in spatial resolution whereas for DESI imaging decreased solution supply rates smaller emitter sizes and the proper selection of the nebulizing gas velocity and scan direction were found beneficial.

Post mortem tissue degradation and loss of spatial integrity during sample preparation are serious concerns in the investigation of biological systems. Cryomicrotoming and freeze fracture techniques generally practiced in IMS experiments aim to minimize chemical changes during and after tissue and cell preparations. Further complications may arise due to analyte migration in the matrix coating step of MALDI experiments. In vivo analyses circumvent these problems by probing the chemistry of samples in situ. For example LAESI mass spectrometry reveals the tissue metabolite composition within the timeframe of a few seconds. Instantaneous analysis and no requirement for sample preparation make this approach promising for in vivo studies.

Volume distributions of molecules in organisms are of interest in molecular and cell biology. Recently LAESI MS showed initial success in depth profiling of metabolites in live plant tissues but 3D imaging is not yet available for the ambient environment.

Here we describe 3D molecular imaging by the combination of lateral imaging and depth profiling with as an example resolutions of about 300 350 m and about 30 40 m respectively. In the example we used LAESI 3D IMS to monitor the distribution of xenobiotics deposited on the leaves of Peace lily and endogenous metabolites in live Zebra plant leaves. In good agreement with literature results obtained by conventional techniques that required extensive physical and chemical processing of the samples the molecular images revealed that the compound distributions were specific to the anatomy of the leaves. The 3D localization of select metabolites was correlated with their biological roles in live plant tissues.

In one preferred embodiment a process and apparatus is provided which combine infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization ESI to provide three dimensional molecular imaging of metabolites in live tissues or cells. This allows a live sample to be directly analyzed 1 without special preparation and 2 under ambient conditions. The ions which can be analyzed using this process include but are not limited to metabolites lipids and other biomolecules pharmaceuticals dyes explosives narcotics and polymers.

In general terms the invention starts with using a focused IR laser beam to irradiate a sample thus ablating a plume of ions and particulates. This plume is then intercepted with charged electrospray droplets. From the interaction of the laser ablation plume and the electrospray droplets gas phase ions are produced that are detected by a mass spectrometer. This is performed at atmospheric pressure.

In a preferred embodiment there is provided a method for the three dimensional imaging of a live tissue or cell sample by mass spectrometry comprising subjecting the live tissue or cell sample to infrared LAESI mass spectrometry wherein the LAESI MS is performed using a LAESI MS device directly on the live tissue or cell sample wherein the sample does not require conventional MS pre treatment and is performed at atmospheric pressure wherein the LAESI MS device is equipped with a scanning apparatus for lateral scanning of multiple points on a grid or following the cellular pattern or regions of interest that is defined on the live tissue or cell sample and for depth profiling of each point on the grid or following the cellular pattern or regions of interest by performing multiple ablations at each point each laser pulse of said ablations ablating a deeper layer of the live tissue or cell sample than a prior pulse wherein the combination of lateral scanning and depth profiling provides three dimensional molecular distribution imaging data.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided an ambient ionization process for producing three dimensional imaging of a sample which comprises irradiating the sample with an infrared laser to ablate the sample intercepting this ablation plume with an electrospray to form gas phase ions and analyzing the produced ions using mass spectrometry wherein the LAESI MS is performed using a LAESI MS device directly on the live tissue or cell sample wherein the sample does not require conventional chemical physical preparation and is performed at atmospheric pressure wherein the LAESI MS device is equipped with a scanning apparatus for lateral scanning of multiple points on a grid or following the cellular pattern or regions of interest that is defined on the live tissue or cell sample and for depth profiling of each point on the grid or following the cellular pattern or regions of interest by performing multiple ablations at each point each laser pulse of said ablations ablating a deeper layer of the live tissue or cell sample than a prior pulse wherein the combination of lateral scanning and depth profiling provides three dimensional molecular distribution imaging data.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided the processes above wherein LAESI MS detects ions from target molecules within the sample said ions selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals metabolites dyes explosives or explosive residues narcotics polymers chemical warfare agents and their signatures peptides oligosaccharides proteins metabolites lipids and other biomolecules synthetic organics drugs and toxic chemicals.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided a LAESI MS device for three dimensional imaging of a sample comprising a pulsed infrared laser for emitting energy at the sample an electrospray apparatus for producing a spray of charged droplets a mass spectrometer having an ion transfer inlet for capturing the produced ions and a scanning apparatus for lateral scanning of multiple points on a grid or following the cellular pattern or regions of interest that is defined on the sample and for depth profiling of each point on the grid or following the cellular pattern or regions of interest by controlling the performing of multiple ablations at each point each laser pulse of said ablations ablating a deeper layer of the sample than a prior pulse wherein the combination of lateral scanning and depth profiling provides three dimensional molecular distribution imaging data.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided the device herein further comprising wherein the LAESI MS is performed at atmospheric pressure.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided the device herein further comprising an automated feedback mechanism to correct for variances in water content and tensile strength of the sample by continuously adjusting laser energy and or laser wavelength while recording the depth of ablation for each pulse.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided the device herein wherein LAESI MS detects ions from target molecules within the sample said ions selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals dyes explosives or explosive residues narcotics polymers chemical warfare agents and their signatures peptides oligosaccharides proteins metabolites lipids and other biomolecules synthetic organics drugs and toxic chemicals.

In another preferred embodiment there is provided a method for the direct chemical analysis of a sample by mass spectrometry comprising subjecting a sample to infrared LAESI mass spectrometry wherein the sample is selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals dyes explosives narcotics polymers tissue or cell samples and biomolecules and wherein the LAESI MS is performed using a LAESI MS device directly on a sample wherein the sample does not require conventional MS pre treatment and is performed at atmospheric pressure.

Table 1 shows the tentative assignment of the observed ions was achieved on the basis of accurate mass measurement collision activated dissociation isotope peak distribution analysis and a wide plant metabolome data base search. The mass accuracy m is the difference between the measured and calculated monoisotopic masses.

Recent advances in biomedical imaging enable the determination of three dimensional molecular distributions in tissues with cellular or subcellular resolution. Most of these methods exhibit limited chemical selectivity and are specific to a small number of molecular species. Simultaneous identification of diverse molecules is a virtue of mass spectrometry that in combination with ambient ion sources such as laser ablation electrospray ionization LAESI enables the in vivo investigation of biomolecular distributions and processes. Here we introduce three dimensional 3D imaging mass spectrometry IMS with LAESI that enables the simultaneous identification of a wide variety of molecular classes and their 3D distributions in the ambient. We demonstrate the feasibility of LAESI 3D IMS on Peace lily and build 3D molecular images to follow secondary metabolites in the leaves of the variegated Zebra plant . The 3D metabolite distributions are found to exhibit tissue specific accumulation patterns that correlate with the biochemical roles of these chemical species in plant defense and photosynthesis. These results describe the first examples of 3D chemical imaging of live tissue with panoramic identification on the molecular level. Abbreviations AP Atmospheric Pressure DESI Desorption Electrospray Ionization ESI Electrospray Ionization and LAESI Laser Ablation Electrospray Ionization.

Initially the 3D molecular imaging capability of LAESI was evaluated in proof of principle experiments. The adaxial and abaxial surfaces of an leaf were marked with about 1 mm wide right angle lines and a 4 mm diameter spot with basic blue 7 and rhodamine 6G dyes respectively. Laser pulses of 2.94 m wavelength were focused on the adaxial upper surface of this mock sample and a six step depth profile of the tissue was acquired for each point on a 22 26 grid across a 10.5 12.5 mmarea. Each of the resulting 3 432 cylindrical voxels with 350 nm diameter and 40 nm height i.e. about 4 mL analysis volume yielded a high resolution mass spectrum. Microscopic inspection revealed that the exposed surfaces of the epidermal cells were elliptical in shape with axes of about 20 m and about 60 m. The average height of the cells measured 15 m. Thus each about 4 mL imaging voxel sampled about 300 cells for analysis.

The top view of the leaf following LAESI 3D IMS can be seen in . The interrogated area was marked by an array of about 350 m diameter ablation spots with a displacement of 500 m in both directions. This lateral step size yielded about 2 3 pixels to sample across the width of the lines drawn in basic blue 7. A circular Rhodamine 6G dye pattern from the marking of the back side can be seen in the lower left corner of the image indicating complete tissue removal in 6 laser pulses. Scanning electron microscopy images confirmed that the first laser pulse successfully removed the protective waxy cuticle layer.

For all laser pulses focused on the adaxial upper surface of the leaflet information rich mass spectra were recorded. Numerous ions were tentatively assigned on the basis of accurate mass measurements isotope distribution analysis and collision activated dissociation experiments combined with broad plant metabolomic database searches. The databases at the http www.arabidopsis.org http biocyc.org and http www.metabolome.jp websites were last accessed on Oct. 29 2008. Detailed analysis of the recorded mass spectra indicated that the tissue chemistry varied with depth. present representative mass spectra for the first and second laser pulses respectively. Cyanidin rhamnoside and or luteolinidin glucoside m z 433.1125 and cyanidin kaempferol rhamnoside glucoside m z 595.1649 were generally observed at higher abundances in the top 40 m section of the tissue. At the second pulse which sampled the layer between 40 m and 80 m from the top surface new ions emerged in the m z 600 to 1000 region of the spectrum. Singly charged ions characteristic to this section were observed at m z 650.4 813.5 893.5 and 928.6. Other ions such as m z 518.4 609.4 543.1 and 621.3 were observed at higher abundances during the third fourth fifth and six laser pulses respectively.

The lateral and cross sectional localization of mass selected ions were followed in three dimensions. The color coded contour plots in demonstrate the localization of the dye ions and some endogenous metabolites in the plant organ. Each layer represents a 40 m thick section of the leaf tissue sampled by successive ablations. The two dimensional distribution of the basic blue 7 dye ion CHN detected at m z 478.3260 in the top layer of was in very good correlation with its optical pattern recorded prior to the imaging experiment compare with . Although the basic blue 7 dye was applied on the top cuticle of the leaf its molecular ion was also noticed at low intensities in the second layer. Optical investigation of marked leaf surfaces revealed that during prolonged contact with the marker pen the ink occasionally seeped through the tissue as far as the cuticle on the opposite side. Thus marking times were minimized to restrict cross sectional transport during the mock sample preparation. We attributed the limited presence of the dye in the second layer to this cross sectional transport. However increasing crater sizes during consecutive ablations due to the Gaussian profile of the beam intensity and varying ablation depths linked to changing water content or tensile strengths could also play a role.

The molecular ion of the rhodamine 6 G dye CHNO with a measured m z 443.2295 was found at high abundances in the fifth and six layers. shows the lateral distribution patterns of the dye ion in the bottom two layers agree well with the marked spot on the adaxial cuticle shown in the optical image see for comparison . These results confirmed the feasibility of lateral imaging with LAESI at varying depths of the tissue. Low levels of the rhodamine 6G ion was present in the fourth layer as well indicating enhanced cross sectional transport compared to the top surface where only 2 layers were affected.

In response to short and long term fluctuations in the environment over the last 400 million years plants have evolved to have adaxial cuticles generally thinner with a higher density of stomata than the upper surface. These pores are responsible for regulating gas and water exchange with the environment. In addition to their natural role the stomata potentially facilitated transport of the dye solution to deeper layers of the leaflet in our experiments. Reduced cuticle thickness on the abaxial surface likely also enhanced these effects explaining the more pronounced transport of the red dye.

Close inspection of reveals darkening of the chlorophyllous tissue surrounding the interrogated area. We attributed this observation to uncontrolled dehydration and or oxidation of the exposed tissue in air an effect that likely accelerated during the time course of the 3D imaging experiment. At longer time scales about 1 hour tissue discoloration was also noticed in areas where the leaf tissue was physically cut indicating that this effect was not caused by the laser radiation rather it occurred as a consequence of dehydration and or oxidation.

Various plant metabolites exhibited characteristic 3 dimensional patterns. For example the distribution of the protonated leucine ion can be seen in on a grey to black false color scale. This amino acid was observed across the entire tissue S N 3 with higher ion counts in the top 80 m section. In contrast the molecular ion of cyanidin kaempferol rhamnoside glucoside m z 595.1649 along with other secondary metabolites e.g. cyanidin luteolinidin rhamnoside was uniquely linked to the upper 40 m of the tissue .

The tentative identification of the observed metabolites along with the layers of their accumulation where appropriate are summarized in Table 1. Independent methods showed that a higher concentration of kaempferol glycosides is often found in the upper epidermal layers. In leaves of rapeseed Brassica napus for example mostly quercetin and kaempferol based UV screening pigments are concentrated within the upper 40 m of the leaf tissue showing a very good agreement with our data. Plant flavonoids are thought to play a vital role in providing protection against the detrimental effects of solar radiation. By direct light absorption or scavenging harmful radicals such as reactive oxygen these substances can create a barrier against the effect of UV A and B rays protecting the photosynthetic mesophyll cells and perhaps providing them with additional visible light via fluorescence. As proteins also have a major absorption band at 280 nm this mechanism can also protect them from degradation in photosystems I and II.

Other metabolites accumulated in the mesophyll layers of the leaf tissue. In every depth profile the second laser pulse sampled the molecular composition of the palisade mesophyll layer between 40 m and 80 m. In this region mass analysis showed the presence of various ions in the m z 600 1000 segment of the spectrum see the mass spectrum in . Based on the accurate mass see Table 1 and the isotopic distribution pattern of the m z 893.5425 ion 76 4 and 50 8 for Mand M respectively we identified it as the protonated chlorophyll a molecule CHNOMg with 77 0 and 43 for Mand M respectively . Collision activated dissociation of m z 893.5425 yielded an abundant fragment at m z 615.2 corresponding to the protonated form of the chlorophyllide a CHNOMg as documented by other researchers. The 3D distribution of the chlorophyll a ion showed an accumulation of this species in the second and to some degree in the third layers i.e. this ion was found between 40 m and 120 m below the adaxial cuticle see . This 3D profile paralleled the biological localization of chlorophyll a in the chloroplasts of the palisade and spongy mesophyll layers where photosynthesis takes place.

The photosynthetic cycle is known to involve a variety of chlorophyll derivatives. In the imaging experiments ions with m z 813.4917 852.5833 860.5171 and 928.6321 exhibited similar 3D molecular patterns and isotopic distributions to that of chlorophyll a H . These positive spatial correlations indicated potentially common biosynthetic or biodegradation pathways. Prolonged thermal treatment of vegetables blanching steaming microwave cooking etc. has been described to yield m z 813.5 a fragment of pyrochlorophyll a supporting this scenario. Although elevated plume pressures and temperatures may facilitate chlorophyll a breakdown in the early phase of the ablation process e.g. in conventional MALDI experiments LAESI probes the neutrals and particulates that are ejected at a later phase when the sample is closer to thermal equilibrium with the environment. The time frame of sampling and mass analysis is tens of milliseconds which is at least four orders of magnitude shorter than those needed to cause extensive chlorophyll a decomposition. Thus we considered the ions observed in the m z 600 1000 range to endogenous metabolites as opposed to compounds formed via chemical modifications of the chlorophyll a molecule.

Detailed information on the localization of endogenous metabolites in three dimensions holds the potential to reveal metabolic aspects of organs that may not be accessible by lateral imaging techniques. The information obtained by LAESI 3D IMS promised to be useful in understanding plant variegations on the biological level. We chose the variegated leaves of as model organs in the experiments. Cells in the light yellow and in the chlorophyllous variegations sectors are of different genotype. Two dimensional 2D IMS with LAESI revealed metabolic differences between the two tissue sections. For example the variegated sectors were found to accumulate kaempferol and luteolin based secondary metabolites. Lateral imaging however could not assign the origin of altered metabolite composition to the cells in the variegation pattern or in the vasculature. Metabolites synthesized in the veins can build up in the surroundings leaving an array of secondary metabolites secreted in the cells of the variegation. Molecular analysis in 3D with LAESI IMS has the potential to differentiate between these scenarios.

Leaves of demonstrated a higher tensile strength and thickness than those of . The incident laser energy was slightly increased to compensate for these effects and to obtain depth analysis with 6 laser pulses. The thickness of the selected leaf area for analysis was generally about 300 350 m corresponding to a depth resolution of 50 60 m pulse. In the yellow sectors the abaxial surface contained two parallel running secondary veins that induced about 50 100 m protrusions on the lower side of the lamina producing a total thickness of 350 450 m in these regions. The 3D chemical makeup of an 11.5 7.5 mmarea was probed on a 24 16 6 grid resulting in 2 304 voxels. As evidenced by the optical image see the arrows in six laser pulses were not sufficient to ablate through the veins. This was probably the result of a higher tensile strength of the vasculature compared to the mesophyll layer. Although these points of analysis constituted only small percentage of the voxels it is important to consider them separately when interpreting the obtained 3D molecular images. To compensate for differences in water content and tensile strength an increased number of laser pulses and or higher incident laser energies can be used.

Three dimensional molecular imaging of mass selected ions revealed a variety of distribution patterns for metabolites and indicated the coexistence of diverse metabolic pathways. These patterns could be grouped on the basis of lateral and cross sectional molecular homogeneity. The first group of metabolites demonstrated homogenous distributions in all three dimensions. For example the protonated 7 oxocoumarin m z 163.0373 measured sodiated methoxy hydroxyphenyl glucoside m z 325.0919 measured and acacetin diglucuronide m z 637.0127 measured fell in this category.

Other metabolites were distributed homogeneously within horizontal layers but exhibited pronounced variations in ion signal with depth. The abundance of these metabolites depended on tissue layers. For example the 3D molecular image of the protonated kaempferol diacetyl coumarylrhamnoside with measured and calculated m z of 663.1731 and 663.1714 respectively revealed significantly higher ion counts in the mesophyll third and fourth layers compared to the epidermal sections. For the ion m z 377.0842 possibly corresponding to tetrahydroxy trimethoxyflavone the center of distribution however shifted to the spongy tissues second and third layers . A handful of ions including those registered at m z 501.1259 and 647.1942 also belonged to this group with distribution characteristics between these two cases.

Another class of metabolites exhibited distributions with lateral heterogeneity. Such localization was observed in all the layers for the protonated kaempferol luteolin and methoxy kaempferol luteolin glucuronide ions with measured m z values of 287.0494 and 493.0942 respectively. Shown in both metabolites yielded higher intensities in the second and third layers. Kaempferol luteolin ions were observed in about 90 of the variegation pattern area indicating that this metabolite was characteristic to the cells of the achlorophyllous tissue sections. On the other hand this coverage was only about 40 for the methoxy kaempferol luteolin glucuronide ions which showed higher intensities along the secondary vein in the top 180 m layer of the leaf. The optical image of the leaf cross section revealed that the secondary vasculature was located about 150 200 m below the upper surface and was in direct contact with the cells of the variegation pattern. This correlation between the molecular and the optical images suggested that the glucuronide derivative originated from the secondary veins of the leaf.

Abundance changes both as a function of depth and lateral position proved tissue specificity for a handful of metabolite ions. In 2D imaging experiments some of these features were only partially revealed or completely obscured. Because 2D imaging integrates the depth profiles for every lateral position patterns can only be resolved when variations in signal levels do not cancel out. Variegation with depth can be seen in for the chlorophyll H ion with m z 893.5457 that populates the mesophyll layers. Cells in the yellow sectors appeared in white yellow color under an optical microscope indicating chlorophyll deficiency. Areas comprised of these exhibited cross sectional molecular patterns for chlorophyll in 3D that were anti correlated with that of the variegation pattern lower chlorophyll intensities were obtained in the yellow sectors. These data allowed us to confirm the achlorophyllous nature of the cells. Similar feature was noticed for the ion with nominal m z 813 which was in agreement with the results of lateral imaging.

Placing a 3D distribution into one of these four qualitative categories is not always possible. For example the distributions for m z 317.1 and 639.1 are quite similar and assigning them to particular groups can be subjective. A quantitative characterization of the relationship between tissue architecture and metabolite distributions is possible through the correlation between the intensity distribution of the tissue morphology acquired through e.g. optical imaging M r and the normalized distribution for the m z ion obtained by e.g. LAESI MS I r . The correlation coefficient defined as 

Pearson product moment correlation coefficients r were calculated between the 3D spatial distributions of ion intensities I r for twelve selected m z in an leaf. For obvious cases e.g. m z 301 and 317 the r 0.88 i.e. the results confirmed the strong correlation between ion distributions placed in the same groups. Furthermore the degree of similarity was reflected for less clear cases. For example for m z 285 and 287 the r 0.65 i.e. although both distributions reflect the variegation pattern in layers two and three the m z 285 distribution exhibits significant values in the green sectors as well. Another interesting example was the lack of spatial correlation between kaempferol luteolin at m z 287 and chlorophyll a at m z 893. The low value of the correlation coefficient r indicated that these two metabolites were not co localized. They are also known to belong to different metabolic pathways. This and other examples showed that the correlation coefficients can be a valuable tool to identify the co localization of metabolites in tissues and to uncover the connections between the metabolic pathways involved.

Several doubly charged ions were observed above m z 500 including m z 563.2 636.2 941.3 948.3 956.3 and 959.3. Tandem mass spectrometry experiments indicated that the related 1.2 1.9 kDa species were not adduct ions. Their 3D distribution pattern correlated with that of the protonated chlorophyll a molecule. Higher abundances were noticed in the chlorophyllous tissue of the palisade and spongy mesophyll region indicating a possible direct link to the photosynthetic cycle. Structural assignment was not attempted for these ions.

The combination of lateral imaging with depth profiling proved important in cases when ion intensities integrated over the section gave no total variance. For example acacetin and methylated kaempferol luteolin have been described in the chlorophyllous tissues and also in those that partially comprised sections of the variegation revealing no significant accumulation through the cross sections. The 3D localization of the former ion with m z 285.0759 uncovered information that had been hidden in our 2D LAESI IMS experiments. Its molecular distribution was rather uniform across the first fourth fifth and six layers of analysis see . The second and third laser shots however exhibited lateral heterogeneity in the molecular distribution. The X Y coordinates of pixels with higher intensities see intensities above about 200 counts in red color coincided with the position of the secondary vasculatures captured in . The secondary metabolites kaempferol luteolin diglucuronide and luteolin methyl ether glucoronosyl glucuronide observed at m z 639.1241 and 653.1358 exhibited similar distributions in space. These data indicated that the route of synthesis and or transport for these metabolites differed from the ones in the other groups mentioned above.

We have shown that LAESI is an ambient ionization source for MS that enables the simultaneous investigation of a variety of biomolecules while eliminating the need for tailored reporter molecules that are generally required in classical biomedical imaging techniques. In vivo analysis with low limits of detection a capability for quantitation and lateral and depth profiling on the molecular scale are further virtues of this method with great potential in the life sciences. The distribution of secondary metabolites presented in this work for example may be used to pinpoint the tissue specificity of enzymes in plants. Water containing organs tissue sections or cells from plants or animals as well as medical samples can be subjected to 3D analysis for the first time. The studies can be conducted under native conditions with a panoramic view of metabolite distributions captured by MS.

LAESI is an ambient ionization source that enables the simultaneous investigation of a variety of biomolecules while eliminating the need for tailored reporter molecules that are generally required in classical biomedical imaging techniques. In vivo analysis with low limits of detection a capability for quantitation and lateral and depth profiling on the molecular scale are further virtues of the method that forecast great potentials in the life sciences. The distribution of secondary metabolites presented in this work for example may be used to pinpoint enzymes to tissue or cell specificity in plants. Water containing organs or whole body sections of plants animals and human tissues or cells can be subjected to 3D analysis for the first time under native conditions with a panoramic view for ions offered by MS.

Although three dimensional ambient imaging with LAESI has proved feasibility in proof of principle experiments as well as in real life applications further developments are needed on the fundamental level. For example variations in the water content and tensile strength of tissues can affect the lateral imaging and depth profiling performance of the method. An automated feed back mechanism may correct for these effects by continuously adjusting the laser energy and or wavelength while recording the depth of ablation for each laser pulse. With typical resolutions of about 300 350 m and 50 100 m in the horizontal and vertical directions LAESI offers middle to low level of resolving power in comparison to optical imaging techniques. Advances are promised by oversampling typically applied in MALDI experiments aspherical lenses for light focusing and fiber optics for direct light coupling into the sample. The latter two approaches have allowed us to analyze single cells with dimensions of about 50 m diameter while maintaining good signal noise ratios. Higher lateral and depth resolutions in three dimensions can dramatically enhance our understanding of the spatial organization of tissues and cells on the molecular level.

The electrospray source was identical to the one we have recently described. A low noise syringe pump Physio 22 Harvard Apparatus Holliston Mass. supplied 50 methanol solution containing 0.1 v v acetic through a tapered tip metal emitter 100 m i.d. and 320 m o.d. New Objective Woburn Mass. . Electrospray was initiated by directly applying stable high voltage through a regulated power supply PS350 Stanford Research System Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. . The flow rate and the spray voltage were adjusted to establish the cone jet mode. This axial spraying mode has been reported to be the most efficient for ion production.

Live leaf tissues of approximately 20 20 mmarea were mounted on microscope slides positioned 18 mm below the electrospray axis. The output of a Nd YAG laser operated at a 0.2 Hz repetition rate 4 ns pulse duration was converted to 2940 nm light via an optical parametric oscillator Vibrant IR Opotek Inc. Carlsbad Calif. . This mid infrared laser beam was focused with a plano convex focusing lens 50 mm focal length and was used to ablate samples at right angle under 0 incidence angle about 3 5 mm downstream from the tip of the spray emitter. During the about 200 m average thickness and about 450 m average thickness imaging experiments the average output energy of a laser pulse was measured to be 0.1 mJ 15 and 1.2 mJ 10 respectively.

Scanning electron microscopy JEOL JSM 840A Peabody Mass. of the ablation craters indicated that as a single laser pulse impinged on the adaxial surface of the leaf the epidermal cells were removed in an elliptical area with 320 m and 250 m major and minor axes respectively. Using optical microscopy exposure with consecutive laser shots was found to result in slightly elliptical areas with axes of about 350 m and about 300 m for and 350 m diameter circular ablation marks for which translated into a fluence of about 0.1 J cmand about 1.2 J cmat the focal point respectively.

The ablated material was intercepted by the electrospray plume and the resulted ions were analyzed by an orthogonal acceleration time of flight mass spectrometer Q TOF Premier Waters Co. Milford Mass. with a 1 s spectrum integration time. The original electrospray ion source of the mass spectrometer was removed. The sampling cone of the mass spectrometer was located on axis with and 13 mm away from the tip of the spray emitter. The ion optics settings of the instrument were optimized for best performance and were kept constant during the experiments. Metabolite identification was facilitated by tandem MS. Fragmentation was induced by CAD in argon collision gas at 4 10mbar pressure with the collision energy set between 15 30 eV.

A three axis translation stage was positioned with precision motorized actuators LTA HS Newport corp. Irvine Calif. to scan the sample surface while keeping all other components of the LAESI setup in place. The actuators had a travel range of 50 mm and a minimum incremental motion of 0.1 m. Thus the ultimate resolution was determined by the focusing of the incident laser beam and the dimensions of the ablation craters about 350 m in diameter . To avoid the overlapping of the probed areas the sample surface was scanned at a step size of 500 m in the X and Y directions. At each coordinate the cross section of the live tissues were analyzed with 6 laser pulses while the generated ions were recorded for 30 seconds with the mass spectrometer. Under these settings three dimensional imaging of a 12.5 10.5 mmarea required a total analysis time of about 5 hours. Higher repetition rates for laser ablation and a lowered ion collection time can significantly shorten this analysis time in future applications. A software was written in house LabView 8.0 to position the translation stage and render the analysis times to the corresponding X Y coordinates and laser pulses. The exported data sets of mass selected ions were converted into three dimensional distributions and were presented in contour plot images with a scientific visualization package Origin 7.0 OriginLab Co. Northampton Mass. .

Glacial acetic acid TraceSelect grade and gradient grade water and methanol were obtained from Sigma Aldrich and were used as received. The Easter lily and Zebra plant were purchased from a local florist at an approximate age of one and a half years. The plants were watered every 2 days with about 300 mL tap water to keep their soil moderately moist to touch. No fertilizer was used during the experiments. Temperature and light conditions were 20 25 C. in light shade protected from direct sun.

It will be clear to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the above embodiments may be altered or that insubstantial changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is determined by the scope of the following claims and their equitable equivalents.

