---

title: Electronic completion of cash versus futures basis trades
abstract: An electronic trading system is described herein. More specifically, the electronic trading system may relate to the substantially simultaneous trading of cash instruments and their related futures contracts for interest-rate related instruments. The electronic trading system may also be used to allow a user (such as a market maker or other suitable participant) to gauge his chance of success at completing both sides of a basis trade within a preferably pre-determined or pre-set interval, while knowing in advance the specific weighting algorithm that will be applied to the basis trade. The electronic trading system may also be used to allow a user to predetermine the exact weighting algorithm to be used on such a basis trade, and to adjust those preferences where necessary or desired.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571970&OS=08571970&RS=08571970
owner: BGC Partners, Inc.
number: 08571970
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120827
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 940 574 filed Sep. 13 2004 by Richard P. Goodman et al. and entitled ELECTRONIC COMPLETION OF CASH VERSUS FUTURES BASIS TRADES which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to electronic trading systems and methods. More specifically this invention relates to electronic systems and methods relating to the substantially simultaneous trading of cash instruments and their related futures contracts for interest rate related instruments.

The following example illustrates a typical futures contract for an interest related instrument. The Chicago Board of Trade 10 year futures contract is of a delivery standard of a nominal 10 year maturity 6 coupon bond whereby underlying bonds eligible for delivery into a short position are of a maturity of 6 to 10 years maturity at the first day of each delivery month. Any one of this basket of deliverable bonds may be delivered in satisfaction of the seller s obligation under the contract. A basis trade is a trade in which a deliverable cash bond trade is effected at the same time as the equivalent but opposite futures trade.

One advantage of a basis trade is that it provides a hedged position in a particular instrument i.e. the basis trade includes two substantially opposing positions on similar instruments. The hedged position exists because the futures price tends to track the cash price of the underlying instrument. The hedged nature of the basis trade typically limits losses in situations where long term interest rates fluctuate rapidly.

One aspect that makes basis trading of these underlying bonds against the futures contract difficult to implement electronically is that the futures contract and any one of the basket of deliverable bonds may be traded on distinct and different trading systems which may incorporate different matching algorithms.

Another aspect is the different hedge ratios of cash bond amount versus futures contract amount that exist for different trading scenarios. Some traders prefer to weight the nominal amounts of each instrument traded in a basis trade by buying or selling an amount of cash bond equivalent to the opposing short or long futures trade by a conversion factor weighting that stipulates the cash amount to be the futures amount multiplied by a Futures Exchange published conversion factor e.g. 0.9467 . Other traders prefer to weight a basis trade according to a duration based algorithm that matches the different instruments subtle differences in market price behavior. Other traders still prefer to view the likelihood of one bond being significantly cheaper to deliver into a futures contract short position and adjust a basis trade hedge ratio according to this likelihood while considering other market factors as well.

Therefore it would be desirable to provide a system for the electronic trading of futures contracts for interest rate related instruments against their equivalent cash securities as a spread or basis trade whereby both a long or short position in one instrument is traded substantially simultaneously with a short or long position in the other instrument.

Two difficult aspects of the basis trade are the entry into and exit from each position respectively. At the entry into the position two things must occur a trade on the underlying instrument and a trade on the futures. However from a trader s perspective it is often difficult if not impossible to make these two trades occur simultaneously. Whereas this simultaneous execution may be difficult to carry out when trading with two different human brokers the difficulty is amplified in the world of electronic trading where the execution of intended trades depends on the electronic trading system and the trading algorithm resident therein.

Therefore it would also be desirable to provide electronic trading systems and methods that allow a user or market maker or other suitable participant to gauge his chance of success at completing both sides of a basis trade within a preferably pre determined or pre set interval while knowing in advance the specific weighting algorithm that will be applied to the basis trade.

It is an object of this invention to provide a system for the simultaneous electronic trading of cash instruments and their related futures contracts for interest rate related instruments.

It is also an object of this invention to provide electronic trading systems and methods that allow a user to predetermine the exact weighting algorithm to be used on such a basis trade and to adjust those preferences where necessary or desired.

It is yet another object of this invention to provide electronic trading systems and methods that allow a user e.g. a market maker or other suitable participant to gauge his chance of success at completing both sides of a basis trade within a preferably pre determined or pre set interval.

Referring to exemplary system for implementing the present invention is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or more communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . Server is linked via communications link to back office clearing center .

In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same. Server and back office clearing center may form part of the electronic trading system. Furthermore server may also contain an electronic trading system and application programming interface and merely transmit a Graphical User Interface or other display screens to the user at the user workstation.

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same.

Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

Workstations may be personal computers laptop computers mainframe computers dumb terminals data displays Internet browsers Personal Digital Assistants PDAs two way pagers wireless terminals portable telephones etc. or any combination of the same. Workstations may be used to implement the electronic trading system application and application programming interface according to the invention.

Back office clearing center may be any suitable equipment such as a computer a laptop computer a mainframe computer etc. or any combination of the same for causing transactions to be cleared and or verifying that transactions are cleared. Communications link may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between server and back office clearing center such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

The server the back office clearing center and one of the workstations which are depicted in are illustrated in more detail in . Referring to workstation may include processor display input device and memory which may be interconnected. In a preferred embodiment memory contains a storage device for storing a workstation program for controlling processor . Memory also preferably contains an electronic trading system application according to the invention.

Electronic trading system application may preferably include application program interface or alternatively as described above electronic trading system application may be resident in the memory of server . In this embodiment the electronic trading system may contain application program interface as a discrete application from the electronic trading system application which also may be included therein. The only distribution to the user may then be a Graphical User Interface which allows the user to interact with electronic trading system application resident at server .

Processor uses the workstation program to present on display electronic trading system application information relating to market conditions received through communication link and trading commands and values transmitted by a user of workstation . Furthermore input device may be used to manually enter commands and values in order for these commands and values to be communicated to the electronic trading system.

In one embodiment of this invention Trade Through the Stack trading rules TTS preferably allow the user to identify and trade prices outside the boundaries of the best prices shown by the trading system. Such a trade may not invoke the trading system or alternatively the trading application s interactive trading rules as will be described in more detail below. Preferably price improvement PI benefits which are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 171 009 filed on Jun. 11 2002 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety may also be applicable in some form in TTS trading.

To fully understand the TTS system and method according to the invention which are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 890 602 filed on Jul. 13 2004 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety it is important to understand an interactive trading system according to the invention upon which the TTS rules are implemented. One embodiment of an interactive trading system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 560 580 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Interactive trading may use a number of trading states to define the ability of users to negotiate and trade with one another. Each of the various states may be associated with a user interface display screen. Alternatively all of the various states may be associated with a single display screen that includes various indicators to denote the current system state.

Typically in conventional trading implemented using display participants enter their respective bids and offers by typing the price and volume in field . Size fields may be used to facilitate order entry by making preprogrammed size amounts available. Cancel keys may be used to facilitate canceling active orders.

Associated with each of the bids and offers is a conversion factor . The conversion factor as stated above represents the value by which the exchange settlement price of any selected cash bond delivered into a short futures position at futures contract maturity will be multiplied by to arrive at a price the futures buyer will be expected to pay for that bond in order to satisfy the requirements of the notional bond futures contract. Various reasons exist and are known in the art as to why a trader may bid or offer for a futures contract while assuming a particular underlying cash bond is likely to be delivered in the future to satisfy the trader s obligations under the contract.

To the right of each bond are the conversion factors then the conversion factor weightings amount of futures per 1 m nominal of each bond for a futures conversion factor weighted hedge trade and then the duration weightings amount of futures per 1 m nominal of each bond for a futures duration weighted hedge trade associated with each bond assuming that the first bond with the shortest duration is the cheapest to deliver bond for the above mentioned short futures obligated participants.

For example the trader may choose a particular underlying instrument and its associated conversion factor because at the time of entry into the futures contract it is the cheapest for a futures short position to deliver into their delivery obligation and thus there exists a likelihood that at futures maturity said underlying bond could be most economically delivered into the futures obligation. Alternatively a trader may choose a particular underlying instrument because he anticipates that at the time of delivery of the contract he will have a surplus of this particular instrument at an advantageous price and or that the price of the currently viewed cheapest to deliver instrument is likely to ascend to a relative point where it is no longer cheapest. In any case various factors contribute to a particular choice of instrument for delivery.

However as can be seen from the display in the various conversions factors for various bonds having a price . Conversion factors generally lead to a lack of uniformity and a concomitant lack of liquidity in an electronic marketplace for the simultaneous trading of cash bonds and associated futures contracts. Column shows the conversion factor weighting used to convert the current price into a million dollars of nominal futures contracts. Also the proprietary nature of futures participant s mathematical modeling of the likelihood of delivery of any of the basket of bonds effectively gives rise to the fact that the last duration weighting column of the table often has different values in it for each participant. In addition these conversion factor numbers are typically fixed by the exchange in advance.

Systems and methods according to the invention solve this problem as follows. Typically in the display shown in trades are executed by a hit or lift of the bid or offer respectively that is currently being shown. A number of rules that apply to interactive trading relating to the hit lift system are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 560 580. While these rules are used herein to illustrate the claimed invention nevertheless the scope of the invention extends beyond the electronic systems disclosed therein.

Systems and methods according to the invention propose an additional rule that requires a trader that hits or lifts a futures contract for an interest rate related instrument to implicitly agree to at least one of the underlying terms i.e. the hedge ratio proposed for the trade when the trader hits or lifts a displayed bid or offer. In so doing any executed trades for a futures contract include an agreement on the terms of satisfaction of the contract i.e. an agreement as to which hedge ratio bond on the trade is to be used to weight how much of the underlying bond is to be weighted against how many futures contracts.

Using this rule according to the invention uncertainty is removed from electronic trading of futures contracts for interest related instruments. According to the invention each basis trade includes for every executed trade an associated hedge ratio which has been implicitly agreed to by the action of the aggressive participant upon the passive resting order. As the trade price is struck at the then current futures price in the open market the agreed hedge ratio is that of the passive participant and the aggressive participant can re adjust their desired hedge ratio with trades in the open markets of the underlying instruments to the basis trade.

The following exemplary calculations may be used as an introduction to one embodiment of the systems and methods described herein wherein the contracts being traded are a 2 year U.S. Treasury Note a 2 Y Futures contract on the 2 year U.S. Treasury Note and a 2 Y Basis trade is a purchase sale of the 2 year U.S. Treasury Note and a sale purchase of the 2 year U.S. Treasury Note Futures Contract 

A detailed description of may be used to more fully illustrate particular aspects of a futures risk management system and method according to the invention. Display includes a list of bids and offers for futures contracts. Display also shows three boxes which represent user configurable fields may be used to gauge the chance of success at completing simultaneously both sides of a basis trade or other suitable spread trade . Preferably in one embodiment of the invention the system preferably works with a limit order or any other suitable order type. Otherwise the system works with market orders. The chances of successfully completing the trade may be measured with respect to a preferably pre determined or pre set time interval which in modern electronic trading systems may typically be measured in a few hundredths of a second to those skilled in the art. Thus systems and methods according to the invention preferably provide a user configurable risk mechanism for use in performing a basis trade a spread trade or for other suitable trades.

The invention may be used for the following purpose. A market maker in a basis trade may use the invention to provide a price in the basis trade as follows.

Risk ticks may be a user configurable field. Ticks measure volatility and function as a volatility adjustment parameter. The more volatile the market the less orders per tick. In this embodiment risk ticks preferably indicates the level of depth in a market that the user may be willing to probe for an availability of prices and sizes for contracts to complete the basis trade. Specifically a risk tick level of three as shown in may indicate that the trader desires an average bid and offer associated with the top three bids highest dollar value and or the bottom three offers lowest dollar value in order to gauge the size and price of the available market for futures contracts for the five year treasury note that is due to be delivered in March 2004. Risk ticks effectively stipulates how many price levels a user wishes to probe to determine market depth in the calculation algorithms that follow.

Risk size may be a user configurable field as well. In this embodiment risk size may define the pre determined quantity of the derivative instrument for which a user wishes to determine availability. When used in conjunction with the rest of the parameters in the systems and methods according to the invention the user can tailor a risk profile to suit the user s desired trading and market volatility parameters.

Risk factor may also be a user configurable field. The risk factor adjusts the risk exposure without sending a larger order up to a linking machine which may be configured to post either one or both of the orders for trading. More particularly the risk factor defines an excess amount of the derivative instrument over which availability is tested. This gives the linking machine the control of the risk before exposing a position to the market. One embodiment of a suitable linking machine or engine is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 627 705 filed Jun. 28 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Thus risk factor limits the exposure of the user to real market risk.

In this embodiment risk factor preferably indicates a multiple of one side of the basis trade with respect to the other side of the basis trade. For example a risk factor of three in this example indicates that for the order of one hundred contracts in the cash market shown in a cost price average i.e. the average price that is being determined for the selected bids or offers for the instrument that is being derived for three hundred equivalent contracts should be taken in the futures market to determine the availability of contracts in the futures market at the required price or close to the required price to risk showing a cash price and size for trading in a cash bond trading system to complete both sides of a basis trade. The higher the risk factor the less the trader is exposed to risk because the indication that he receives with respect to the available contracts illustrates a wider sampling of the market and thus a lower risk profile and concomitantly lower chance of only executing a cash bond trade without the balancing accompanying futures trade. Thus the risk factor limits the exposure by increasing the cover without increasing the order.

It should be noted that if the risk factor requests a measure of availability to be determined over a particular number of contracts and the risk ticks specifies a number of ticks that does not include sufficient volume to satisfy the number of contracts requested by the risk factor then systems and methods according to the invention may reject the submitted risk profile because the market is not sufficiently liquid to support the user s risk profile.

A derived size limit may be a further parameter that the user can adjust in the cash bond market to minimize or increase the desired risk profile. If the risk ticks risk factor and risk size provide a price and size that is at the best price while taking into account the risk analysis in the cash market a limit may be applied as to how much derived size should be shown to either minimize possible sudden losses due to extraordinary market movements or to aggressively show as much derived size as possible to maximize a user s probability of execution. This limit may be implemented using derived size limit .

Finally if derived size limit is not calculated at a marketable price reflective of the then best bid or offer in the market i.e. it is of a worse price than currently displayed on the cash instrument preferably in order to protect the user then the derived size can be preferably automatically reduced by the system down to an adjusted reduced derived size that enables the algorithm to calculate a better price that is closer to the then best market bid or offer price in accordance with the user s settings of risk ticks risk factor and risk size .

Thus a trader can parameterize the system to use any combination of risk ticks risk factor risk size derived size limit and adjusted reduced derived size to form his risk assessment vis vis the selected contracts. In one embodiment of the invention the cost price average of the futures size stack for the desired amount multiplied by the risk factor provides the user with an indication of the availability of contracts at the price that the user needs to complete the basis trade. As described above in one embodiment of the situation according to the invention the higher the risk factor the less risk is involved from the side of the trader.

In another embodiment of the invention the risk factor may be adjustable according to bid offer tick volatility and or time of day e.g. a risk factor may be configured to be higher between 8 28 a.m. and 8 35 a.m. on days in which economic figures are set to be reported. Preferably the risk factor can also be manually overridden in real time by a trader.

In cash trading systems that use a principle of first buyer and first seller priority workup as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 560 580 an embodiment of the system may be implemented to take advantage of any trading privileges afforded to the user in deciding whether to trade more at a price when executed. If a user at the point of a cash trade enjoys specific privileged trading rights over further cash size proffered in the trading system the system may trade more futures first thus reversing the derived order flow because of the changed risk dynamic associated with an exclusive priority over further cash trading size. Rather than bid for or offer more cash size according to the futures price and size available to the system as adjusted by the combination of risk ticks risk factor risk size derived size limit and adjusted reduced derived size the system can use the exclusive trading rights to further cash size to execute first a determined amount of futures and then the cash instrument. The futures amount to trade is determined by the available cash size exclusively proffered to the application adjusted either by the risk factor only or by any of the suitable feature as described above. In a certain embodiment of the priority matching where anti gaming rules of the cash trading system dictate the proffered size that is unable to be cancelled the trading system has thus guaranteed the priority buyer or seller an execution of the proffered size. In this embodiment the risk factor is automatically set to a value of one and the amount of futures thence traded is equal to just the cash amount modified by the user s hedge ratio amount be that conversion factor weighted duration weighted or weighted by any proprietary model used as introduced above.

Thus it will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention and the present invention is limited only by the claims that follow.

