---

title: Method and handheld electronic device having a graphical user interface which arranges icons dynamically
abstract: A graphical user interface for a media player application is described. A method is provided comprising: determining a screen orientation of the GUI in accordance with a device orientation; rendering a first user interface screen in a portrait screen orientation comprising an album list when the screen orientation is a portrait screen orientation; rendering a second user interface screen in a landscape screen orientation comprising an array of album art images arranged in rows and columns when the screen orientation is a landscape screen orientation; and displaying the rendered first or second user interface screen on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280261&OS=09280261&RS=09280261
owner: BLACKBERRY LIMITED
number: 09280261
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120713
---
The present application is a continuation of non provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 627 Jul. 7 2009 which claims priority to and the benefit of provisional U.S. patent application No. 61 103 744 Oct. 8 2008. The content of these documents is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a user interfaces and in particular to a method and handheld electronic device having a graphical user interface which arranges icons dynamically.

Handheld electronic devices such as mobile communication devices provide a number of features and applications including for example a phone application media player application mapping application calendar application email application instant messaging IM application text messaging application e.g. for sending and receiving short message service SMS messages and other applications. Navigation between the various features and applications of handheld electronic devices is often provided by way of graphical user interfaces GUIs having an icon menu. Any feature operation command function or application can be represented by an icon in the icon menu. However handheld electronic devices have relative small display screens and there are often more icons to be displayed than there is space to display them. While icons may be decreased in size this option is limited to the extent that the icons must remain readable to the device user.

GUIs sometimes may provide limited customization of the displayed icons typically being limited to the size of the icons and the selection of which icons are displayed and which are hidden. Some handheld electronic devices with expandable user interface screens having content which extends beyond the virtual boundary of the display screen provide for the icons displayed on the main screen of the expandable user interface screens to be configurable by the user in order to limit scrolling expanding. However there remains a need for improved graphical user interfaces which organize displayed icons and associated application information.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to portable electronic devices. Examples of portable electronic devices include mobile wireless communication devices such as pagers cellular phones Global Positioning System GPS navigation devices and other satellite navigation devices smartphones wireless organizers personal digital assistants and wireless enabled notebook computers. At least some of these portable electronic devices may be handheld electronic devices. The portable electronic device may be a portable electronic device without wireless communication capabilities such as a handheld electronic game device digital photograph album digital camera and video recorder such as a camcorder. The portable electronic devices could have a touchscreen display a mechanical keyboard in addition to a touchscreen display or a conventional non touchscreen display with a mechanical keyboard. These examples are intended to be non limiting.

The present disclosure provides a graphical user interface GUI which arranges icons in accordance with the screen orientation of the GUI and changes in the screen orientation. The screen orientation of the GUI may be changed in response to a change in device orientation detected by an orientation sensor of the device or possibly in response to respective input from the device user.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a method for providing a GUI for a media player application on a display of a handheld electronic device the method comprising determining a screen orientation of the GUI in accordance with a device orientation displaying a first user interface screen in a portrait screen orientation comprising an album list when the screen orientation is a portrait screen orientation displaying a second user interface screen in a landscape screen orientation comprising an array of album art images arranged in rows and columns when the screen orientation is a landscape screen orientation and displaying the rendered first or second user interface screen on the display.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a method for providing an icon menu with dynamic icon arrangement within a GUI displayed on a display of a handheld electronic device the method comprising determining a screen orientation of the GUI in accordance with a device orientation displaying a first user interface screen in a portrait screen orientation when a screen orientation of the GUI is a portrait screen orientation the first user interface screen comprising a reduced icon menu having a plurality of icons arranged in an array of rows and columns and an input area adjacent to the reduced icon menu and displaying a second user interface screen in a landscape screen orientation when the screen orientation of the GUI is a landscape screen orientation the second user interface screen comprising a first expanded icon menu having a plurality of icons arranged in an array of rows and columns wherein the first expanded icon menu includes the array of icons of the reduced icon menu and one or more additional rows of icons wherein the first expanded icon menu is larger than the reduced icon menu.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a handheld electronic device comprising a controller a display coupled to the controller a memory coupled to the controller the memory having stored therein a user interface module for generating a GUI on the display a sensor coupled to the controller for generating an orientation signal wherein the controller is configured by the user interface module for performing the method s set forth herein.

In accordance with yet a further embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program instructions for implementing a method on a handheld electronic device for controlling its operation the computer executable instructions comprising instructions for performing the method s set forth herein.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a mobile communication device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The mobile communication device is a two way communication device having at least data and possibly also voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile communication device in various embodiments the device may be a data communication device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile communication device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device and a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network . The processor interacts with the communication subsystem which performs communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen with a touch sensitive input surface or overlay connected to an electronic controller that together make up a touchscreen display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller . The device could include other input devices such as a keyboard or keypad navigational tool input device or both. The navigational tool could be a clickable depressible trackball or scrollwheel. The other input devices could be included in addition to or instead of the touchscreen display .

The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone control keys switch short range communication subsystem an orientation subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile communication device is intended to operate.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after a network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software software applications comprising a user interface module and a media player module for providing a media player application. The user interface module renders and displays the GUI of the device in accordance with instructions of the operating system and applications as applicable .

The modules may among other things each be implemented through standalone software applications or combined together in one or more of the operating system or other software applications . The functions performed by each of the above identified modules may be realized as a plurality of independent elements rather than a single integrated element and any one or more of these elements may be implemented as parts of other software applications .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications may include a range of applications including for example an address book application a messaging application a calendar application and or a notepad application. In some embodiments the software applications include an email message application a push content viewing application a voice communication i.e. telephony application and a map application. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display device according to the application.

In some embodiments the auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile communication device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory card typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile communication device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile communication device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem other wireless communication interfaces. The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile communication device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email message application and output to the display . A user of the mobile communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the touch sensitive overlay in conjunction with the display device and possibly the control buttons and or the auxiliary I O subsystems . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile communication device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display device may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to the construction of the device will be described in more detail. The device includes a rigid case for housing the components of the device that is configured to be held or cradleable in a user s hand while the device is in use. The touchscreen display is mounted within a front face of the case so that the case frames the touchscreen display and exposes it for user interaction therewith. The case has opposed top and bottom ends designated by references respectively and left and right sides designated by references respectively which extend transverse to the top and bottom ends . In the shown embodiments of the case and device is elongate having a length defined between the top and bottom ends longer than a width defined between the left and right sides . Other device dimensions and form factors are also possible.

As further illustrated in the case includes a back a frame which frames the touch sensitive display sidewalls that extend between and are generally perpendicular to the back and the frame and a base that is spaced from and generally parallel to the back . The base can be any suitable base and can include for example a printed circuit board or flex circuit board not shown . The back includes a plate not shown that is releasably attached for insertion and removal of for example the battery and the memory module described above. It will be appreciated that the back the sidewalls and the frame can be injection molded for example.

The display device and the overlay can be supported on a support tray of suitable material such as magnesium for providing mechanical support to the display device and overlay . The display device and overlay are biased away from the base toward the frame by biasing elements such as gel pads between the support tray and the base . Compliant spacers which for example can also be in the form of gel pads are located between an upper portion of the support tray and the frame . The touchscreen display is moveable within the case as the touchscreen display can be moved toward the base thereby compressing the biasing elements . The touchscreen display can also be pivoted within the case with one side of the touchscreen display moving toward the base thereby compressing the biasing elements on the same side of the touchscreen display that moves toward the base .

In the example embodiment the switch is supported on one side of the base which can be a printed circuit board while the opposing side provides mechanical support and electrical connection for other components not shown of the device . The switch can be located between the base and the support tray . The switch which can be a mechanical dome type switch or in other example embodiments a plurality of mechanical dome type switches for example can be located in any suitable position such that displacement of the touchscreen display resulting from a user pressing the touchscreen display with sufficient force to overcome the bias and to overcome the actuation force for the switch depresses and actuates the switch . In the present example embodiment the switch is in contact with the support tray . Thus depression of the touchscreen display by application of a force thereto causes actuation of the switch thereby providing the user with a positive tactile quality during user interaction with the user interface of the . The switch is not actuated in the rest position shown in absent applied force by the user. It will be appreciated that the switch can be actuated by pressing anywhere on the touchscreen display to cause movement of the touchscreen display in the form of movement parallel with the base or pivoting of one side of the touchscreen display toward the base . The switch is connected to the processor and can be used for further input to the processor when actuated. Although a single switch is shown any suitable number of switches can be used.

The touchscreen display can be any suitable touchscreen display such as a capacitive touchscreen display. A capacitive touchscreen display includes the display device and the touch sensitive overlay in the form of a capacitive touch sensitive overlay . It will be appreciated that the capacitive touch sensitive overlay includes a number of layers in a stack and is fixed to the display device via a suitable optically clear adhesive. The layers can include for example a substrate fixed to the display device e.g. LCD display by a suitable adhesive a ground shield layer a barrier layer a pair of capacitive touch sensor layers separated by a substrate or other barrier layer and a cover layer fixed to the second capacitive touch sensor layer by a suitable adhesive. The capacitive touch sensor layers can be any suitable material such as patterned indium tin oxide ITO .

Referring now to together with each of the touch sensor layers comprises an electrode layer each having a number of spaced apart transparent electrodes. The electrodes may be a patterned vapour deposited ITO layer or ITO elements. The electrodes may be for example arranged in an array of spaced apart rows and columns. As shown in the touch sensor layers electrode layers are each associated with a coordinate e.g. x or y in a coordinate system used to map locations on the touchscreen display for example in Cartesian coordinates e.g. x and y axis coordinates . The intersection of the rows and columns of the electrodes may represent pixel elements defined in terms of an x y location value which can form the basis for the coordinate system. Each of the touch sensor layers provide a signal to the controller which represent the respective x and y coordinates of the touchscreen display . That is x locations are provided by a signal generated by one of the touch sensor layers and y locations are provided by a signal generated by the other of the touch sensor layers.

The electrodes in the touch sensor layers electrode layers respond to changes in the electric field caused by conductive objects in the proximity of the electrodes. When a conductive object is near or contacts the touch sensitive overlay the object draws away some of the charge of the electrodes and reduces its capacitance. The controller receives signals from the touch sensor layers of the touch sensitive overlay detects touch events by determining changes in capacitance which exceed a predetermined threshold and determines the centroid of a contact area defined by electrodes having a change in capacitance which exceeds the predetermined threshold typically in x y Cartesian coordinates.

The controller sends the centroid of the contact area to the processor of the device as the location of the touch event detected by the touchscreen display . Depending on the touch sensitive overlay and or configuration of the touchscreen display the change in capacitance which results from the presence of a conductive object near the touch sensitive overlay but not contact the touch sensitive overlay may exceed the predetermined threshold in which case the corresponding electrode would be included in the contact area. The detection of the presence of a conductive object such as a user s finger or a conductive stylus is sometimes referred to as finger presence stylus presence.

It will be appreciated that other attributes of a touch event on the touchscreen display can be determined. For example the size and the shape or profile of the touch event on the touchscreen display can be determined in addition to the location based on the signals received at the controller from the touch sensor layers. For example the touchscreen display may be used to create a pixel image of the contact area created by a touch event. The pixel image is defined by the pixel elements represented by the intersection of electrodes in the touch sensor layers electrode layers. The pixel image may be used for example to determine a shape or profile of the contact area.

The centroid of the contact area is calculated by the controller based on raw location and magnitude e.g. capacitance data obtained from the contact area. The centroid is defined in Cartesian coordinates by the value X Y . The centroid of the contact area is the weighted averaged of the pixels in the contact area and represents the central coordinate of the contact area. By way of example the centroid may be found using the following equations 

The controller of the touchscreen display is typically connected using both interrupt and serial interface ports to the processor . In this way an interrupt signal which indicates a touch event has been detected the centroid of the contact area as well as raw data regarding the location and magnitude of the activated electrodes in the contact area are passed to the processor . However in other example embodiments only an interrupt signal which indicates a touch event has been detected and the centroid of the contact area are passed to the processor . In embodiments where the raw data is passed to the processor the detection of a touch event i.e. the application of an external force to the touch sensitive overlay and or the determination of the centroid of the contact area may be performed by the processor of the device rather than the controller of the touchscreen display .

In other embodiments the touchscreen display may be a display device such as an LCD screen having the touch sensitive input surface overlay integrated therein. One example of such a touchscreen is described in commonly owned U.S. patent publication no. 2004 0155991 published Aug. 12 2004 also identified as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 717 877 filed Nov. 20 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference.

While a specific embodiment of the touchscreen display has been described any suitable type of touchscreen may be used in the handheld electronic device of the present disclosure including but not limited to a capacitive touchscreen a resistive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave SAW touchscreen an embedded photo cell touchscreen an infrared IR touchscreen a strain gauge based touchscreen an optical imaging touchscreen a dispersive signal technology touchscreen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or a frustrated total internal reflection touchscreen. The type of touchscreen technology used in any given embodiment will depend on the handheld electronic device and its particular application and demands.

Referring again to a Cartesian two dimensional coordinate system used to map locations of the touchscreen display in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure will be described. The touchscreen display defines a Cartesian coordinate system defined by x and y axes in the input plane of the touchscreen display . Each touch event on the touchscreen display returns a touch point defined in terms of an x y value. The returned touch point is typically the centroid of the contact area.

In the shown embodiment the touchscreen display has a rectangular touch sensitive overlay however in other embodiments the touch sensitive overlay could have a different shape such as a square shape. The rectangular touch sensitive overlay results in a screen which is divided into a rectangular array of pixels with positional values ranging from 0 to the maximum in each of the x and y axes x max. and y max. respectively . The x axis extends in the same direction as the width of the device and the touch sensitive overlay . The y axis extends in the same direction as the length of the device and the touch sensitive overlay .

The coordinate system has an origin 0 0 which is located at the top left hand side of the touchscreen display . For purposes of convenience the origin 0 0 of the Cartesian coordinate system is located at this position in all of the embodiments described in the present disclosure. However it will be appreciated that in other embodiments the origin 0 0 could be located elsewhere such as at the bottom left hand side of the touchscreen display the top right hand side of the touchscreen display or the bottom right hand side of the touchscreen display . The location of the origin 0 0 could be configurable in other embodiments.

During operation a graphical user interface GUI for controlling the operation of the device may be displayed on the touchscreen display . The GUI is rendered prior to display by the operating system or an application which causes the processor to display content on the touchscreen display . The GUI of the device has a screen orientation also referred to as a screen mode in which the text and user interface elements of the GUI are oriented for normal viewing. It will be appreciated that the screen orientation for normal viewing is independent of the language supported. That is the screen orientation for normal viewing is the same regardless of whether a row oriented language or column oriented language such as Asian languages is displayed within the GUI. Direction references in relation to the GUI such as top bottom left and right are relative to the current screen orientation of the GUI rather than the device or its case .

In embodiments such as that shown in in which the display screen is rectangular in shape the screen orientation is either portrait vertical or landscape horizontal . A portrait screen orientation is a screen orientation in which the text and other user interface elements extend in a direction transverse typically perpendicular to the length y axis of the display screen. A landscape screen orientation is a screen orientation in which the text and other user interface elements extend in a direction transverse typically perpendicular to the width x axis of the display screen. That is in the portrait screen orientation icons and text are typically oriented so that they may be read when the touchscreen display is oriented in a manner in which its width is less than its height such as the orientation in In the landscape screen orientation icons and text are typically oriented so that they may be read when the touchscreen display is oriented in a manner in which its width is greater than its height i.e. when the device of is rotated 90 . In some embodiments the GUI of the device changes its screen orientation between a portrait screen orientation and landscape screen orientation in accordance with changes in device orientation.

Referring to the mobile communication device also comprises a device orientation subsystem comprising at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The device orientation subsystem may comprise two or more orientation sensors or an orientation sensor and an electronic compass. The device orientation subsystem detects the orientation of the mobile communication device or detects information from which the orientation of the mobile communication device can be determined such as acceleration using an accelerometer. In other embodiments an orientation sensor other than an accelerometer could be used such as a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof.

As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art an accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the mobile communication device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output and is available in one two or three axis configurations. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer. Generally two types of outputs are available depending on whether an analog or digital accelerometer used 1 an analog output requiring buffering and analog to digital A D conversion and 2 a digital output which is typically available in an industry standard interface such as an SPI Serial Peripheral Interface or I2C Inter Integrated Circuit interface. The output of an accelerometer is typically measured in terms of the gravitational acceleration constant at the Earth s surface denoted g which is approximately 9.81 m s 32.2 ft s as the standard average. The accelerometer may be of almost any type including but not limited to a capacitive piezoelectric piezoresistive or gas based accelerometer. The range of accelerometers vary up to the thousands of g s however for portable electronic devices low g accelerometers may be used. Example low g accelerometers which may be used are MEMS digital accelerometers from Analog Devices Inc. ADI Freescale Semiconductor Inc. Freescale and STMicroelectronics N.V. of Geneva Switzerland.

Referring briefly to a device orientation subsystem in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure will be described. The circuit comprises a digital 3 axis accelerometer connected to the interrupt and serial interface of a controller MCU . The controller could be the processor of the device . The operation of the controller is controlled by software which may be stored in internal memory of the controller . The operational settings of the accelerometer are controlled by the controller using control signals sent from the controller to the accelerometer via the serial interface. The controller may determine the device orientation in accordance with the acceleration measured by the accelerometer or raw acceleration data measured by the accelerometer may be sent to the processor of the device via its serial interface where device orientation is determined by the operating system or other software module . In other embodiments a different digital accelerometer configuration could be used or a suitable analog accelerometer and control circuit could be used.

The device orientation subsystem may include a three axis accelerometer having x y and z sensing axes. As shown in the sensing axes x y z may be aligned with the form factor of the device . In some embodiments the accelerometer is aligned such that a first sensing axis x extends longitudinally along the midpoint of the handheld electronic device between left and right sides of the device a second sensing axis y extends laterally along the midpoint of the device between top and bottom ends and a third sensing axis z extends perpendicularly through the x y plane defined by the x and y axes at the intersection origin of these axes. It is contemplated that the sensing axes x y z may be aligned with different features of the device in other embodiments.

Referring now to the assignment of pitch and roll vectors of a three axis accelerometer in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure will be briefly described. Each sensing axis is aligned with an axis of the mobile communication device . As discussed above the x axis and y axis are typically aligned with the input plane of the touchscreen display . The z axis is perpendicular to the horizontal plane and detects when the mobile communication device is moved vertically.

As shown in pitch is the angle of the x axis relative to the ground. is the angle of the z axis relative to gravity. As shown in roll is the angle of the y axis relative to the ground. It will be appreciated that rotation may occur about any combination of sensing axes. The concepts and methodology described herein can be applied to any axis orientation and any combination of pitch angle roll angle and the angle of the z axis relative to gravity . Pitch roll and the angle of the z axis relative to gravity of a three axis accelerometer may be calculated using equations 3 4 and 5 

The device includes a user interface module shown in which uses input from the device orientation subsystem to select and update the screen orientation of the GUI presented within the touchscreen display in accordance with the device orientation amongst other inputs. Referring now to predefined device orientations used by the user interface module in some embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. The device orientation subsystem or processor depending on the embodiment uses measurements of the device orientation subsystem e.g. the accelerometer to determine the device orientation to be one of six possible device orientations comprising 1 a top up device orientation as shown in 2 a bottom up device orientation as shown in 3 a left up device orientation as shown in 4 a right up device orientation as shown in 5 a front up or face up device orientation as shown in and 6 a back up device orientation as shown in . Other device orientations are possible and could be used in other embodiments.

It will be appreciated that the predefined device orientations are defined by which one of the top bottom left hand side right hand side front face and back face of the device are directed generally upwards. Moreover it will be appreciated that the device need not be orientated precisely in of one the illustrated device orientations for the determination of the device orientation. Instead the predefined device orientations act as reference positions. The device orientation is determined by selecting the reference position e.g. which of the six predefined device orientations shown in is closest to the actual device orientation. Each of the predefined device orientations may be mapped to orientation values measured by the orientation sensor or derived from its measurements in order to determine the reference position which is closest to the actual device orientation. The orientation values may be used to construct an orientation profile of each of the six predefined device orientations. The orientation values which are mapped to the predefined device orientations in some embodiments may be defined directly or indirectly in terms of pitch roll and the angle of the z axis relative to gravity measured by a three axis accelerometer which may calculated using equations 3 4 and 5 described above.

When the touchscreen display is rectangular in shape as in the illustrated embodiments the processor in accordance with the instructions of the user interface module changes the screen orientation of the GUI to a landscape screen orientation when the mobile communication device is re positioned in a generally horizontal direction such as for example in FIGS. C and or D and changes the screen orientation of the GUI to a portrait screen orientation when the mobile communication device is re positioned in a generally vertical direction such as for example in and or B . The processor may invert or flip the screen orientation of the GUI horizontally or vertically if the mobile communication device is flipped horizontally or vertically.

Referring again to the in some embodiments the screen orientation of the GUI is selected in accordance with mappings of screen orientation to device orientation as set forth below subject to application overrides as described below 

Having regard to the above described screen orientation also reference to as aspect ratios it will be appreciated that the screen orientation is portrait in both the top up and bottom up device orientations shown in and respectively and that the screen orientation is landscape in both the left up and right up device orientations shown in and respectively. To differentiate between the variants of the portrait screen orientation in the top up and bottom up device orientations and landscape screen orientation in the left up and right up device orientations a direction of the screen orientation is defined. The direction is relative to a fixed position on the device which is the top of the device in the present embodiment. A different directional reference could be used in other embodiments. Thus the screen orientation in the top up device orientation is the portrait up screen orientation because the top of the device is directed upwards relative to the ground and force of gravity g . The screen orientation in the bottom up device orientation is the portrait down screen orientation because the top of the device is directed downwards relative to the ground and force of gravity. Otherwise stated in the bottom up device orientation of the bottom of the device is directed upwards relative to the ground and force of gravity g .

The screen orientation in the left up device orientation is landscape left screen orientation because the top of the device is rotated in the vertical plane towards the left side of the device . The screen orientation in the right up device orientation is landscape right screen orientation because the top of the device is rotated in the vertical plane towards the right side of the device .

In some embodiments the front up and back up device orientations are not associated with a particular screen orientation except for a default screen orientation. When in these positions it is difficult to determine the location of the device relative to the user. Accordingly it may be difficult to determine whether the user is in a position in which they would prefer a portrait screen orientation or a landscape screen orientation. Accordingly in at least some embodiments the screen orientation of device in the front up and back up device orientations is dependent on the previous screen orientation. That is the top up bottom up left up and right up device orientations have a fixed screen orientation.

As described in more detail below some of the applications have a screen orientation of the GUI which varies in accordance with the orientation of the device however one or more of the applications such as the phone application may a fixed screen orientation which is unaffected by the device orientation.

Referring again to the control buttons or keys represented individually by references which are located below the touchscreen display on the front face of the device which generate corresponding input signals when activated. The control keys may be constructed using any suitable key construction for example the controls keys may each comprise a dome switch. In other embodiments the control keys may be located elsewhere such as on a side of the device . If no control keys are provided the function of the control keys described below may be provided by one or more virtual keys not shown which may be part of a virtual toolbar or virtual keyboard.

In some embodiments the input signals generated by activating e.g. depressing the control keys are context sensitive depending on the current active operational mode of the device or current active application . A first key may be a send answer key which can be used to answer an incoming voice call bring up a phone application when there is no incoming voice call and start a phone call from the phone application when a phone number is selected within that application. A second key may be a menu key which invokes context sensitive menus comprising a list of context sensitive options. A third key may be an escape cancel back key which cancels the current action reverses e.g. back up or go back through previous user interface screens or menus displayed on the touchscreen display or exits the current application . A fourth key may be an end hang up key which ends the current voice call or hides the current application .

Although in the illustrated embodiments the case is shown as a single unit it could among other possible configurations include two or more case members hinged together such as a flip phone configuration or a clam shell style lap top computer for example or could be a slider phone in which the keyboard is located in a first body which is slide ably connected to a second body which houses the display screen the device being configured so that the first body which houses the keyboard can be slide out from the second body for use. In other embodiments the mobile communication device could have a mechanical keyboard in addition to the touchscreen display .

The present disclosure provides a graphical user interface GUI which organizes icons in accordance with the screen orientation of the GUI and changes in the screen orientation. The screen orientation of the GUI may be changed in response to a change in device orientation detected by an orientation sensor of the device or possibly in response to respective input from the device user.

Referring now to a series of user interface screens of an icon menu for an icon input mode of the device are shown. are schematic illustrations of the user interface screens in the context of the device whereas E and F are screen captures of example user interface screens of A and B respectively. The icon menu comprises a plurality of selectable and activatable icons only one of which is labelled in to avoid obscuring the drawings . The icon menu in the shown embodiment is a home or main user interface screen for controlling the device sometimes referred to as the home screen of the device or its operating system .

The icon menu in the illustrated embodiment provides icons for starting or activating applications or functions on the device . The icons can each be activated via corresponding input via the touchscreen display to start the associated application or function. While the icons are primarily associated with applications on the device one or more of the icons may be associated with a function such as opening an associated folder in a folder based data storage system of the device or disabling and enabling the communication subsystem . The icons may for example be used to start a media player application email messaging application calendar application notepad application or other application. If an icon represents an application activating the selected icon causes the processor to start the application logically associated with the icon such as for example the media player application.

In some embodiments the icons can be selected using movement of an onscreen position indicator commonly referred to as a caret cursor or focus by respective touch input on the touchscreen display . Selection of a particular icon causes that icon to become highlighted or focused using the onscreen position indicator or otherwise changed in appearance to provide a visual indication of the selected icon . Highlighting of the icon may comprise changing a background colour of the icon changing the icon from a first version e.g. idle unselected to a second version e.g. active selected or both.

The application or function associated with an icon may be activated by clicking or depressing the touchscreen display while the corresponding icon is selected to activate the switch . Depressing the switch causes a switch event or click event in which an interrupt signal is generated by the switch at the same time that a touch event in which an interrupt signal and possibly serial data signal is generated by the touchscreen display . These signals are received by the processor and typically processed via the operating system and or user interface module . The location of the touch input is used by processor to identify the selected icon whereas the receiving of the interrupt signal generated by the switch is interpreted as input to activate the application or function logically associated with the selected icon .

Other selection and activation methods could be used in other embodiments for example depressing one of the control buttons could be used to activate icons or other selectable user interface elements of the GUI. If other input devices are provided instead of or in addition to the touchscreen display input from such other input devices such as a keyboard or clickable navigation tool could be used to navigate the onscreen position indicator and activate icons or other selectable user interface elements of the GUI.

In the shown embodiment a status bar is displayed above the reduced icon menu . The status bar includes information such as the current date and time icon based notifications device status and device state. The reduced icon menu in the shown embodiment is non scrollable non expandable and is approximately the same size as the secondary input area . In other embodiments the reduced icon menu and secondary input area could be different sizes and the reduced icon menu could be scrollable.

The second portrait screen shown in has an expanded icon menu which is larger than the reduced icon menu of and has more icons displayed than the reduced icon menu of . In some embodiments the expanded icon menu may occupy all of or substantially all of the display screen except for the status bar when the GUI is in the second portrait screen. In some embodiments the icons of the reduced icon menu are displayed in the same portion of the display screen as the secondary input area of the first portrait screen i.e. the top of the user interface screen and additional icons are displayed in the same portion of the display screen as the reduced icon menu of the first portrait screen i.e. the bottom of the user interface screen .

In at least some embodiments the screen orientation i.e. aspect ratio is dynamically determined in accordance with the device orientation and changes in device orientation as described more fully below. The screen orientation may be changed from a portrait screen orientation such as that shown in or B to a landscape screen orientation such as that shown in by rotating the device or otherwise moving the device to invoke the landscape screen orientation. Conversely the screen orientation may be changed from a landscape screen orientation to a portrait screen orientation by rotating the device or otherwise moving the device to invoke the portrait screen orientation. In this way the displayed icons and the icon layout arrangement of the displayed icons of a supported device mode or state can be dynamically controlled and changed via the device orientation. Moreover the required input to transition the GUI to a mode in which an icon array in which many or all of the icons are displayed requires only minor intuitive input from the user i.e. the gesture motion of the device to invoke the change in screen orientation in contrast to known solutions for changing the icons displayed which typically require more complex input. Conventional solutions for controlling the displayed icons requires individual selection of the icons to be displayed which requires the device user to navigate through various menus involving a series of prompts and inputs in order to change the icons displayed on the home screen of a mobile device .

The expanded icon menu of and the expanded icon menu of include more icons than the reduced icon menu of so that at least more possibly all if the icons of the menu may be shown. The expanded icon menus each comprise an array of icons arranged in rows and columns as in the reduced icon menu . However the expanded icon menus have three or more rows of icons whereas the reduced icon menu has one or two rows of icons . In the shown embodiment the expanded icon menus and are scrollable if the icon menus are not large enough to permit all icons to be displayed at once. To scroll the expanded icon menus and corresponding directional input is provided by the user. When the device includes a touchscreen display the user touches the touchscreen display with his or her finger or possibly a stylus and moves the finger in the corresponding direction to provide the directional input. In some embodiments the expanded icon menus may only be scrollable in a single direction e.g. up down or left right with respect to a top of the user interface screen. In other embodiments the expanded icon menus may be scrollable in two dimensions. In contrast the reduced icon menu of the shown embodiment is non scrollable.

The reduced icon menu of the first portrait screen of permits the device user to view a limited number of commonly used icons which may be configurable whereas the expanded icon menu of the second portrait screen shown in and the expanded icon menu of the landscape portrait screen shown in may permit the device user to access all icons possibly requiring scrolling to select and activate some of the icons depending on the number and size of the icons . This embodiment in at least some systems may simplify graphics rendering since the first portrait screen does not need to support all of the icons and does not need to support scrolling of the GUI. This reduces the processing and memory constraints imposed by the GUI. Since the commonly used icons are in the reduced icon menu the frequency with which device users need to access other icons in the second portrait screen or landscape portrait screen may be quite small depending on user preferences.

From a user perspective the present disclosure provides a solution to cluttered icons on a user interface screen such as the home screen of a device by limiting the icons displayed in the icon menu in the first portrait screen and displaying the remainder of the icons in the expanded icon menu of the landscape portrait screen or possibly a second portrait screen. Furthermore the input to invoke the expanded icon menus is relatively minor being intuitive gestural input from the user or a click event on the secondary input area. Moreover the remainder of the reduced icon menu allows the secondary input area to be provided. The secondary input area may be used for many different purposes such as the display of a background image message or other user interface screen for example of an application or function of the device .

It will be appreciated that the size of the icons in the reduced icon menu of the portrait screen orientation of may be different than the size of the icons in one or both of the expanded icon menus of the second portrait screen of or landscape portrait screen of . For example in some embodiments the icons in the portrait screen orientation of may be narrower than the icons in the landscape portrait screen of in order to account for differences in screen width between the landscape and portrait screen orientations.

While the icon menu has been described primarily in the context of application icons on the home screen of the device it will be appreciated that the teachings of the present disclosure could be applied to any user interface screen having a number of icons such as in menus or windows activated to the operating system or applications .

Referring now to a portrait screen orientation of the media player application in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. In the shown embodiment the portrait screen orientation comprises a list based user interface screen in particular an album list of the media player application. The album list comprises a title bar and a table comprising a number of rows and columns. Each row is an album or track in an album list or track list with each column representing a field in the album or track entry. The title bar includes a label of the respective fields for informational purposes. In the shown embodiment the fields comprise an album field artist field year field genre field and length field . Additional or different fields could be used in other embodiments.

The album field displays the album or track name and or an icon or possibly a picture associated with the album or track such as an album art thumbnail image e.g. album cover art thumbnail image . In the shown embodiment an onscreen position indicator is provided in the album field for navigating and selecting different albums in the album list or track. The artist field identifies the artist of the respective album the year field identifies the year of release of the respective album the genre field identifies genre associated with the music of the respective album and the length field identifies the total duration of all tracks of the respective album.

Referring now to a landscape portrait screen of a media player application in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. In the shown embodiment the landscape portrait screen comprises an icon array of album cover art corresponding to the albums in the album field of the album list. The icons in the icon array could be thumbnail image of album cover art. Scrolling down will display more albums in the album list via the respective album cover art when the album icons are too numerous to be displayed on the display screen all at the same time. In at least some embodiments to improve navigation side to side scrolling e.g. left to right scrolling is disabled. Navigation in the album icon array is limited to scrolling up and down the albums in the icon array.

In either the portrait screen orientation or landscape portrait screen activation of an album icon displays an album user interface screen not shown with detailed information about the album such as a larger representation of the album cover art and track list including track information such as the track numbers track names individual track lengths and possibly track ratings assigned by the device user. Further interaction input with the detailed album user interface screen may commence playback of the album for example in response to receiving input to commence playback of the album or a particular track in the album.

As in the previous example discussed with reference to B C the processor may switch between the portrait and landscape screen orientations of the media player application in dependence on an orientation signal received from the orientation subsystem . For example where the device is oriented horizontally so that the width of the display is longer than the height of the display the landscape screen orientation is displayed. In contrast where the device is oriented so that the width of the display is shorter than the height of the display the portrait screen orientation may be used. In other embodiments the orientations which trigger the use of either the album art array or the album track list may be reversed. For example the list may be used in the landscape orientation to take advantage of the increased screen width to display additional album or track information.

Reference is now made to which illustrates example operations for generating a user interface screen in which icons are arranged in accordance with the screen orientation of the GUI in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure. The operations are carried out by the processor of the mobile communication device under the instruction of the user interface module and or an active application also referred to as a foreground application on the device or possibly the operating system . The operations are only performed in connection with user interface screens that support an icon mode. Example user interface screens which support an icon mode are the icon menu of the home screen of the device and the album art array of the media player application described above. Because not all user interface screens support an icon mode in some embodiments a check may be performed as a precondition to commencing the operations not shown .

The operations are typically performed after the GUI of the device has been returned to its home screen or after an application has become the active application and its initial or opening screen has been displayed. That is the operations are typically performed in respect of the GUI of the operating system or application after a user interface screen in a default screen orientation has been displayed. The default screen orientation is typically the portrait screen orientation for a top up device orientation described above and shown in . However the operations could be applied to select the appropriate screen orientation for the initially displayed home screen of the device or the initial user interface screen displayed for an application .

In the first step the processor monitors for and detects triggers to display a new user interface screen on the display screen . The trigger may be a change in device orientation from a default device orientation e.g. a top up device orientation shown in or a change from a previously determined device orientation. In such embodiments the processor monitors for and detects changes in device orientation and performs the operations when a change in device orientation is detected. The processor detects device orientation changes via orientation signals sent from the device orientation subsystem . The orientation signals may include information which specifies the device orientation or information from which device orientation can be determined e.g. acceleration information when the orientation sensor is an accelerometer . When the operations are performed by the user interface module the device orientation event notifications may be received by the module from the operating system which generates device orientation event notifications in accordance with device orientation changes based on received orientation signals as described elsewhere. In other embodiments the trigger could be predetermined input in addition to or instead of a detected change in device orientation.

Next in step the processor determines which screen orientation is to be used to display the GUI based on the device orientation. The user interface module and or applications depending on the embodiment apply rules when rendering the GUI including rules which specify which screen orientations are to be used with which device orientations. In some embodiments the rules map device orientations to screen orientations for example using the table described below. The screen orientation is either a portrait screen orientation or a landscape screen orientation. The screen orientation to be used to display the user interface screen is determined based on the device orientation. The device orientation is determined to be any one of the predetermined six 6 device orientations described above. If the device is in one of the top up bottom up left up and right up device orientations the preferred screen orientation is determined in accordance with the following mappings of screen orientation to device orientation 

If the device is in either of the front up or back up device orientations the input plane of the touchscreen display is in the horizontal plane and there is no effective mechanism to unambiguously select a screen orientation for the GUI. As a result when the device is in either in the front up or back up device orientation the screen orientation for the device orientation is typically a previous screen orientation stored in the memory of the device for example in a run time memory used by the user interface module . The previous screen orientation corresponds to the screen orientation when the device was last in one of the top up bottom up left up and right up device orientations.

It will be appreciated that in the described embodiment more than one configuration of the portrait and landscape screen orientations are supported by the device to allow inverted portrait and landscape screen orientations to be used if desired. The portrait up and portrait down screen orientations and landscape left and landscape right screen orientations differ from each other in the location of the drawing origin on the display screen .

If there is no previous screen orientation stored in memory for example because the device was turned on while positioned horizontally e.g. while in the front up or back up device orientation a default screen orientation for the device is selected as the screen orientation. In at least some embodiments the default screen orientation is the screen orientation in the top up device orientation i.e. the portrait up screen orientation in the described embodiment. A different default screen orientation could be used in other embodiments.

In some embodiments a check is performed to determine whether the change in device orientation matches a rule for a screen orientation which is different than the current screen orientation. In such embodiments if the screen orientation has not changed despite a change in the device orientation the operations end. However if the screen orientation has changed the operations continue.

If a portrait screen orientation is to be used step processing continues to step and the corresponding user interface screen is rendered. The user interface screen could be a home screen of the device such as that shown in or possibly a user interface screen of a foreground application such as the media player application shown in .

If a landscape screen orientation is to be used processing continues to step and the corresponding user interface screen is rendered. The user interface screen could be a home screen of the device such as that shown in or possibly a user interface screen of a foreground application such as the media player application shown in .

Next in step after rendering the corresponding user interface screen it is displayed on the display screen . Operations then return to step where the device monitors for and detects triggers to display a new user interface screen. While the device is in the icon mode it will continue to monitor for and detect device orientation changes or other triggers and change the displayed user interface screen and its icons accordingly.

In some embodiments additional operations which may be part of the operations monitor for and detect a predetermined touch input in the secondary input area of the first portrait screen when displayed. When the predetermined touch input is detected in the secondary input area e.g. a screen click event the second portrait screen having the expanded icon menu is rendered and then displayed on the display screen . After the second portrait screen has been activated device orientation changes can be used to switch the user interface screen between the second portrait screen and the landscape portrait screen. This operational state will continue until input cancelling the second portrait screen is received while the second portrait screen is displayed. Upon receiving the predetermined cancellation input for example via depressing the escape cancel key device orientation changes can again be used to switch the user interface screen between the first portrait screen.

While the operations have been described as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the steps may be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the steps described above may be combined in other embodiments and some of the steps described above may be separated into a number of sub steps in other embodiments.

In order to facilitate an understanding of one possible environment in which example embodiments described herein can operate reference is made to which shows in block diagram form a communication system in which example embodiments of the present disclosure can be applied. The communication system comprises a number of mobile communication devices which may be connected to the remainder of system in any of several different ways. Accordingly several instances of mobile communication devices are depicted in employing different example ways of connecting to system . Mobile communication devices are connected to a wireless network which may comprise one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In some embodiments the mobile communication devices are configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In some embodiments the wireless network may comprise multiple WWANs and WLANs .

The WWAN may be implemented as any suitable wireless access network technology. By way of example but not limitation the WWAN may be implemented as a wireless network that includes a number of transceiver base stations one of which is shown in where each of the base stations provides wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. The WWAN is typically operated by a mobile network service provider that provides subscription packages to users of the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments the WWAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized CDMA2000 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems HSPDA High Speed Downlink Packet Access IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or various other networks. Although WWAN is described as a Wide Area network that term is intended herein also to incorporate wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMAN and other similar technologies for providing coordinated service wirelessly over an area larger than that covered by typical WLANs.

The WWAN may further comprise a wireless network gateway which connects the mobile communication devices to transport facilities and through the transport facilities to a wireless connector system . Transport facilities may include one or more private networks or lines the public Internet a virtual private network or any other suitable network. The wireless connector system may be operated for example by an organization or enterprise such as a corporation university or governmental department which allows access to a network such as an internal or enterprise network and its resources or the wireless connector system may be operated by a mobile network provider. In some embodiments the network may be realised using the Internet rather than an internal or enterprise network.

The wireless network gateway provides an interface between the wireless connector system and the WWAN which facilitates communication between the mobile communication devices and other devices not shown connected directly or indirectly to the WWAN . Accordingly communications sent via the mobile communication devices are transported via the WWAN and the wireless network gateway through transport facilities to the wireless connector system . Communications sent from the wireless connector system are received by the wireless network gateway and transported via the WWAN to the mobile communication devices .

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN may be a personal network of the user an enterprise network or a hotspot offered by an Internet service provider ISP a mobile network provider or a property owner in a public or semi public area for example. The access points are connected to an access point AP interface which may connect to the wireless connector system directly for example if the access point is part of an enterprise WLAN in which the wireless connector system resides or indirectly as indicated by the dashed line if via the transport facilities if the access point is a personal Wi Fi network or Wi Fi hotspot in which case a mechanism for securely connecting to the wireless connector system such as a virtual private network VPN may be required . The AP interface provides translation and routing services between the access points and the wireless connector system to facilitate communication directly or indirectly with the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system may be implemented as one or more servers and is typically located behind a firewall . The wireless connector system manages communications including email communications to and from a set of managed mobile communication devices . The wireless connector system also provides administrative control and management capabilities over users and mobile communication devices which may connect to the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system allows the mobile communication devices to access the network and connected resources and services such as a messaging server for example a Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino or Novell GroupWise email server and a content server for providing content such as Internet content or content from an organization s internal servers and application servers for implementing server based applications such as instant messaging IM applications to mobile communication devices .

The wireless connector system typically provides a secure exchange of data e.g. email messages personal information manager PIM data and IM data with the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments communications between the wireless connector system and the mobile communication devices are encrypted. In some embodiments communications are encrypted using a symmetric encryption key implemented using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES encryption. Private encryption keys are generated in a secure two way authenticated environment and are used for both encryption and decryption of data. In some embodiments the private encryption key is stored only in the user s mailbox on the messaging server and on the mobile communication device and can typically be regenerated by the user on mobile communication devices . Data sent to the mobile communication devices is encrypted by the wireless connector system using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox. The encrypted data when received on the mobile communication devices is decrypted using the private encryption key stored in memory. Similarly data sent to the wireless connector system from the mobile communication devices is encrypted using the private encryption key stored in the memory of the mobile communication device . The encrypted data when received on the wireless connector system is decrypted using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox.

The wireless network gateway is adapted to send data packets received from the mobile communication device over the WWAN to the wireless connector system . The wireless connector system then sends the data packets to the appropriate connection point such as the messaging server content server or application servers . Conversely the wireless connector system sends data packets received for example from the messaging server content server or application servers to the wireless network gateway which then transmit the data packets to the destination mobile communication device . The AP interfaces of the WLAN provide similar sending functions between the mobile communication device the wireless connector system and network connection point such as the messaging server content server and application server .

The network may comprise a private local area network metropolitan area network wide area network the public Internet or combinations thereof and may include virtual networks constructed using any of these alone or in combination.

A mobile communication device may alternatively connect to the wireless connector system using a computer such as desktop or notebook computer via the network . A link may be provided for exchanging information between the mobile communication device and computer connected to the wireless connector system . The link may comprise one or both of a physical interface and short range wireless communication interface. The physical interface may comprise one or combinations of an Ethernet connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection Firewire also known as an IEEE 1394 interface connection or other serial data connection via respective ports or interfaces of the mobile communication device and computer . The short range wireless communication interface may be a personal area network PAN interface. A personal area network is a wireless point to point connection meaning no physical cables are required to connect the two end points. The short range wireless communication interface may comprise one or a combination of an infrared IR connection such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA connection a short range radio frequency RF connection such as one specified by IEEE 802.15.1 or the Bluetooth special interest group or IEEE 802.15.3a also referred to as UltraWideband UWB or other PAN connection.

It will be appreciated that the above described communication system is provided for the purpose of illustration only and that the above described communication system comprises one possible communication network configuration of a multitude of possible configurations for use with the mobile communication devices . The teachings of the present disclosure may be employed in connection with any other type of network and associated devices that are effective in implementing or facilitating wireless communication. Suitable variations of the communication system will be understood to a person of skill in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus such as a handheld electronic device including components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present disclosure.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

