---

title: Method, medium, and system for keyword bidding in a market cooperative
abstract: A computer-implemented method and system for keyword bidding in a market cooperative are disclosed. A particular embodiment includes receiving a keyword bid from a first party; determining a value to a host associated with the keyword bid; augmenting the keyword bid by an amount corresponding to the value to the host; and sending the augmented keyword bid to a second party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542707&OS=09542707&RS=09542707
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09542707
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120907
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 892 401 filed Sep. 28 2010 which application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 257 632 filed on Nov. 3 2009 which application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to methods and systems supporting keyword advertising associated with Internet search engine usage and keyword query submittal by a user. More particularly the present disclosure relates to keyword bidding in a market cooperative.

An increasingly popular way of delivering Internet advertisements is to tie the advertisement to search query results triggered by the entry of particular keywords e.g. search queries by a user. In order to target advertising accurately advertisers or vendors pay to have their advertisements presented in response to certain kinds of queries that is their advertisements are presented when particular keyword combinations are supplied by the user of the search engine.

For example when a user searches for baseball cards using a search engine such as Google or other well known search engines in addition to the usual query results the user can also be shown a number of sponsored results. These can be paid advertisements for businesses generally offering related goods and or services. In this example the advertisements may therefore be directed to such things as baseball card vendors collectibles shops sports memorabilia or even sporting goods or event tickets. Of course the advertisements may be directed to seemingly less related subject matter. While the presentation varies somewhat between search engines these sponsored results are usually shown a few lines above or on the right hand margin of the regular results. Although the sponsored results may also be placed anywhere in conjunction with the regular results.

Keyword advertising is growing as other types of web advertising are generally declining. It is believed there are at least several features that contribute to its success. First sponsored results are piggybacked on regular results so they are delivered in connection with a valuable seemingly objective service to the user. By contrast search engines that are built primarily on sponsored results have not been as popular. Second the precision of the targeting of the advertising means the user is more likely to find the advertisements useful and consequently can perceive the advertisements as more of a part of the service than as an unwanted intrusion. Unlike banners and pop up advertisements which are routinely ignored or dismissed users appear more likely to click through these sponsored results e.g. keyword advertisements . Third the targeting is based entirely on the current query and not on demographic data developed over longer periods of time. This kind of targeting is timelier and more palatable to users with privacy concerns. Fourth these advertisements reach users when they are searching and therefore when they are more open to visiting new web sites.

Companies such as Google of Mountain View Calif. which offers a search engine and Overture of Pasadena Calif. now Yahoo Search which aggregates advertising for search engines as well as offering its own search engine use an auction mechanism combined with a pay per click PPC pricing strategy to sell advertising. This model is appealing in its simplicity. Advertisers bid in auctions for placement of their advertisements in connection with particular keywords or keyword combinations. The amount they bid e.g. cost per click CPC is the amount that they are willing to pay for a click through on their link. For example in one PPC pricing strategy if company A bids 1.10 for the keyword combination baseball cards then its advertisement can be placed above a company bidding 0.95 for the same keyword combination. Only a selected number of bidders advertisements can be shown. The simplicity of the model makes it easy for an advertiser to understand why an advertisement is shown and what bid is necessary to have an advertisement shown. It also means that advertisers are charged only for positive click through responses.

Both Google and Overture offer tools to help users manage their bids. Google uses click through rate and PPC to estimate an expected rate of return which is then used to dynamically rank the advertisements. Overture uses the PPC pricing strategy to rank advertisements but monitors the click through rate for significantly under performing advertisements.

Because Google dynamically ranks the advertisements based on click through and PPC advertisers cannot control their exact advertisement position with a fixed PPC. To insure a top position the advertiser must be willing to pay a different price that is determined by their own click through rate as well as the competitors click though rates and PPC. Overture uses a fixed price model which insures fixed position for fixed price.

A number of third parties provide services to Overture customers to identify and select keywords and track and rank bids. For example BidRank Dynamic Keyword Bid Maximizer Epic Sky GoToast PPC BidTracker PPC Pro Send Traffic and Sure Hits. There are a small number of pay per bid systems. For example Kanoodle is a traditional pay per bid system like Overture. Other examples include Sprinks and FindWhat.

In the process of bidding in keyword auctions advertisers may compete in ways that are mutually detrimental. There may be better joint strategies that are less costly or involve alternative keywords but the individual bidders do not easily discover these joint strategies. Even when the individual bidders know good joint strategies the individual bidders may not have a strong incentive to pursue these strategies without some assurance of cooperation.

Conventional keyword bidding is primarily focused on click through rate and PPC to estimate an expected rate of return for a particular keyword advertisement combination. However these keyword bidding systems have not considered the value of driving traffic to a particular host site and the subsequent activity that may be produced at the host site by that traffic. As a result keyword bids by some seller advertisers may have unrecognized value to the host site.

Thus a computer implemented method and system for keyword bidding in a market cooperative are needed.

A computer implemented method and system for keyword bidding in a market cooperative are disclosed. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the clarity of this description.

An example embodiment of a computer implemented method and system may also be used to manage keyword bidding prices from a market perspective. Initially a host may develop and maintain a portfolio of keywords for which users can bid. Additionally a host can search and select desired keywords for the portfolio and cluster the keywords into logical groups based on a variety of dimensional metrics. A data mining process is used to implement keyword affinity scoring. Clustering combines keywords into logical groups or clusters that share a similar behavior with respect to a considered dimension. Keywords from an appropriate cluster can be used to modify an advertising creative. A creative can be a template advertisement or message into which a keyword can be inserted. Sources for clustering techniques include 1 ex ante information about a keyword linguistic similarity number of words in the keyword phrase supply side categorization etc. 2 performance metrics costs clicks return on investment ROI competitor activity use of item level metrics etc. 3 internal sources e.g. host search query history host catalogues host listings parsings host affiliate query catalog and listing information international search strings paid search queries etc. and 4 external sources e.g. Googspy Yahoo buzz etc. .

The computer implemented method and system may also determine and use a correlation between different search queries in a single session. The correlation uses information based on the proximity of the different search queries and the subject matter searched in each query. For example if a user submits a first search query e.g. John and then subsequently in the same session submits a second search query e.g. John Smith a correlation can be drawn between those two keywords. This correlation can be used to form reasonable inferences related to the user behavior because two related search queries appeared in sequence.

The performance metrics for a particular keyword or keyword cluster include a calculation of the value of user action based on keywords. The effective use of advertising or messaging as related to keyword search queries enables the host to attract user action as a result of keyword based advertising. The effectiveness of a particular keyword or keyword cluster to attract user action is a key performance metric. One measure of this effectiveness is a Revenue per Click RPC scoring. If a particular keyword or keyword cluster and a related advertisement or message causes a user to perform an action e.g. click a link or icon a certain value for that click through user action can be calculated using and RPC scoring. RPC scoring is based on a predicted value for a given keyword. The keyword scoring concept includes calculating the value of a new user brought in by a specific keyword or keyword cluster. In an example embodiment as described below additional data can be used to actually project a value forward in time. For example a particular click through might be worth 10 a click yesterday. However there may be strong evidence the click through is going to be worth 12 a click tomorrow because of certain consumer variables that were observed e.g. the volume of related listings may have skyrocketed conversion rates may be skyrocketing and actual sales prices ASP s are staying flat . Conversion is the act of a user clicking responding or otherwise taking action related to an advertisement or message. These consumer variables suggest that the keyword is going to be worth more tomorrow and into the future. In the example computer implemented method and system this forward looking analysis is done with the use of data mining and statistical analysis.

Revenue Per Click RPC prediction is one building block for keyword scoring and value prediction. For this reason it is desirable that the model be as accurate as possible. At its core the example RPC prediction process described herein is a statistical approach to ascribing the likely future revenue for a given click for a given keyword. There can be a large number of potential inputs to this RPC prediction including past revenue and past click volumes COFA Category of First Activity for users who have converted on a given word or the Bid Density by Category for a keyword historically. In the end a large number of x variables can be used as inputs to the model while only a few inputs may actually be part of the calculation. However because the relative weighting of the various variables and even the variables themselves is likely to change over time the example computer implemented method and system provide an extensible and flexible approach towards the RPC calculations.

To best use the example RPC model the input data to the RPC model may be updated on a periodic basis thus incorporating the newest information. This periodic update can be implemented by interfacing the RPC model with the Keyword Selection Module and the Keyword Datamart KWDM described herein. The efficiency of the RPC model can also be improved if the RPC model receives warning alerts as soon as possible if there is a problem with the periodic retrieval of RPC model input data.

One theme of the RPC modeling is global scalability which includes international country specific models using the same methodology as has been implemented for the RPC model in the US. This implies that the RPC model may be based on readily available data sources in every country. Country specific RPC models are implemented for individual countries and for individual search engines to improve the regional accuracy of the RPC modeling.

As part of the periodic e.g. daily input data gathering process the RPC Predictive Model may pull in keyword user category data from various internal and external sources that have been identified as potential predictors of a host s keywords RPC and number of clicks. Various sources for this keyword data can originate. Specifically the keyword data can originate through the Keyword Testing Complex.

The Keyword Testing Complex is a shorthand name for the sourcing selecting adding reporting and deleting keywords cycle. The principal aim of this functionality as described in detail below is to facilitate the adding of good keywords and deleting of bad ones provide control and reporting so users can easily run tests to determine the heuristics that matter in keyword selection and retention and enable the automation of as much of the keyword testing selection and retention cycle as possible.

Referring to a diagram illustrates the main components of the keyword test complex according to an example embodiment. The keyword test complex includes a keyword datamart a keyword selection module and a keyword pruning module . The keyword data mart includes a sourcing module a pre aggregation scrubber an aggregator and keyword storage . The components of one embodiment of keyword datamart are described in detail below.

The Keyword Sourcing Module regularly pulls in keyword data from various internal and external sources that have been identified as potential sources of potentially revenue generating keywords. Because each data source may have different dimensions and attributes a generic and extensible data model is required. It is unlikely that many configurations settings or controls may be required to support keyword sourcing. A user of the technology described herein denoted as a host can use the Keyword Sourcing Module to collect an initial unfiltered set of keywords from various sources. The following are some examples of important keyword sources that can be used. It can be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other sources of keywords can similarly be used. Also note that there may likely be additional keyword sources that are important to various companies organizations countries or regions.

As related to RPC modeling keyword data can be sourced using the Keyword Testing Complex and the Sourcing Module . In addition other keyword data sources include the following.

Keywords in the KWDM may contain various levels of dimension data. For example 1 global dimensions e.g. linguistic dimensions 2 traffic dimensions internal and external data 3 clustering dimensions and 4 source specific metrics. These dimensions are described in more detail below. Because many of these dimensions change from day to day the aggregator defines a time period of measurement for each metric. It may not be necessary to repopulate all of these metrics every day for every keyword. A weekly monthly or quarterly refresh may be sufficient in some cases. A mechanism to track the source and number of occurrences per source by keyword is also a desired feature. As examples of dimensions non exhaustive 

Referring to an example of the metrics processed by aggregator is illustrated. Because many of these statistics change from day to day the aggregator documents from what period of time the statistic is taken. It may not be necessary to repopulate all of these statistics every day. A monthly or quarterly refresh may be sufficient. For statistics involving the actual cost and revenue for the trafficked word for the host the aggregator incorporates new data with the old data. If a keyword comes in more than once from the same source the aggregator can increment the number in the appropriate source column. If the keyword is seen from a new source the aggregator increments the relevant source column.

The Keyword Selection Module is shown in . In one embodiment there are two ways to select keywords to be added manually and automatically.

The computer implemented method and system for keyword bidding disclosed herein provide a set of data driven controls that allow users to manage keyword bidding prices at the keyword level and at a large scale. The computer implemented method and system include a rules engine to manage the spend associated with purchasing and managing a keyword portfolio. The data driven controls include controls to manage spend and high volume. A few of the features of an example embodiment include the following 

The ability to automatically control keyword bids to target a specific position and percentage factor above or below the current bid based on what a host is willing to pay for a group of keywords.

Flexible architecture that supports multiple search partners. Example embodiments can support simultaneous bidding on different search partners e.g. Google and Yahoo that have completely different keyword concepts and attributes and can easily scale to add new search partners e.g. MSN .

CPC Bid Optimization of example embodiments described herein is an element to trafficking keywords and ensuring a host is maximizing its return on investment ROI on each keyword purchase. Because different search engines have different interfaces policies and rules associated with keywords and paid search opportunities an automated bid optimization system may have to take these search engine specific differences into account. Below are example considerations for search engine specific bidding methodologies e.g. Google and Yahoo . Based on each search engine s current bidding methodology specific business rules and a customized RPC Predictive Model has been created as part of the computer implemented method and system described herein that can enable more efficient CPC bid optimization.

Based on a current scaled TPC target per click value use the Competitor Bid Landscape to determine a Bid value Deviation abs TPC CPC and the position 1 2 relative to our current position. The TPC is a desired bid value the advertiser is willing to pay. Clearly the advertiser seeks to optimize the TPC so the lowest value is paid while retaining an acceptable level of user click throughs. The current position corresponds to a location on a search results page relative to the position of other advertiser s competitors on the same page in relation to the same keyword. Typically a search engine can position a highest bidder s advertisement at the top or in the position most likely to attract user click throughs of the search results page. The next highest bidder s advertisement is positioned just below the highest bidder s advertisement. This ranking continues until there is no space left on the search results page or the number of advertisements exceeds a search engine s maximum. In this manner the search engine s advertisement placement corresponds to keyword bid values and the corresponding number of expected user click throughs. As is well known a search engine is paid the bid value by the advertiser for each user click through.

For example take the keyword example maple wood . The bid landscape tells us that we are currently paying 0.27 for position 3. Position 1 places us in position 2 a better position than position 3 in terms of the number of expected user click throughs with a maximum bid of 0.27 and the deviation of 0.03 from our scaled TPC of 0.25. Position 2 places us in position 1 a better position than position 2 in terms of the number of expected user click throughs with a maximum bid of 0.28 and the deviation of 0.04 from our scaled TPC.

Using the bidding logic shown above these metrics are determined for the two positions above and below the current position. From there the minimum deviation is selected from the four surrounding positions. Once the optimal gap is determined a new maximum CPC is determined based on the following 

If the Minimum Deviation lands the keyword between positions 2 new CPC CPC 0.01 or the default minimum of 0.10.

In all cases the CPC CPC 0.01 and CPC TPC 1 X where X scalable margin. illustrates an example of the parameters generated as a result of the process described above for a sample Yahoo bidding strategy.

Using the process described above parameters are generated for a sample Yahoo bidding strategy. These parameters can be used to create the XML syntax to make the appropriate CPC changes through the API.

Based on a current scaled TPC target per click value use the previous day s CPCand previous day s keyword level data to calculate 

For example take the keyword example longaberger pottery and the corresponding sample parameters below.

Based on the bidding logic above since A n a and previous day s CPC 1.5 is true then CPC min previous day s CPC min 0.85 0.77 0.77

Using the process described above parameters are generated for a sample Google bidding strategy. These parameters including the new CPC can be used to execute the corresponding bid changes through Google s API.

Variations of the bidding processes described above can be used to support other search engines. Further a generic version of the bidding optimizer described herein can output or export a flat file for manual loading on other platforms. In addition variations of the bidding processes described above can include time of day hour optimization and demographic targeting.

The Match Type Automation functionality provided in the computer implemented method and system described herein enables a host to automate the decision making process as to which keywords to buy on the different Match Types offered by the conventional search engines e.g. Advanced Standard match types on Overture and Broad Phrase Exact match types on Google .

In particular the functionality of the present computer implemented method and system automates the decision making related to 

In addition the functionality of the present computer implemented method and system also provides additional functionality. When submitting keywords to buy on a search engine the user can specify the desired Match Type. The user can check the Match Type status of any keyword list of keywords or keyword cluster at any time. The user can also manually change the Match Type status of any keyword list of keywords or keyword cluster at any time. When an embodiment is about to switch some existing keywords from an Advanced match type to a Standard match type the embodiment generates a report specifying the list of keywords that have been recommended to be switched over to Standard Match. The embodiment advises the user of the recommended changes prior to trafficking the changes. An example embodiment also allows the user to switch from Advanced to Standard match type automatically on a periodic basis e.g. monthly . Alternatively the match type switching can be configured to occur only after being accepted by the user in the event the user wishes to review the recommended list of words first. This would enable the ability to override recommendations.

Some conventional keyword processing systems store even the slightest differences in user queries as distinct queries records. For example two phrases may have the same keywords but one may have an additional space in the keyword string. Conventional systems create distinct records for these keyword variations even though these variations would be considered the same keyword in some conventional search engines e.g. Overture s Match Driver Logic thus triggering the display of the same advertisements. Thus it is beneficial to be able to mimic the Match Driver Logic of a particular search engine to the extent possible. The following pre processing actions can be implemented to increase the likelihood that the keyword processing can mimic the operation of the Match Driver Logic of a particular search engine.

The following actions can be used in various embodiments to process user queries and related keywords for various conventional search engines.

A particular example embodiment includes an advertising platform allowing sellers on a host site to buy and create advertisements for their items for sale and their stores selling items.

Advertiser Portal End user facing application. The Advertiser Portal can allow registered users to manage their Paid Search portfolio across various publishers. The portal user interface UI can support various functionality including 

In addition to support system and administrative functionality administrative admin users and the system can have the ability to set statuses for the following 

The Advertiser Portal can ultimately support a wide variety of ad formats including rich media and can be designed to support this type of scaling.

The Account Overview is the page that can be displayed to the user when they first log in. The page can contain a snapshot of their account including the following 

Users can be allowed to toggle start and end date fields to control the range of the Account Performance metrics.

From this page users can see a list of the Campaigns that have already been set up along with various metadata and metrics. The following data can be displayed 

There can also be an Edit Campaign link for each saved Campaign. Clicking on a Campaign Name can forward the user to its Campaign Dashboard. The users can have the option to delete campaign s from the Account Dashboard. Deleting a campaign can remove the campaigns and all ad groups within that campaign from the dashboard view and the system permanently. User can be prompted for delete confirmation Are you sure you want to delete before the deletion takes place. Aggregated reporting data can be available as a summary of all deleted objects on all Dashboards. Pausing a campaign suspends activity on all Ad Groups contained within that campaign. Users can still modify campaign attributes while it is in a paused state. The Campaign list can be filtered by All default or Active Only . Users can also specify a date range for the metric calculation. The list can be sortable by all fields. The page can have multi select checkbox functionality to allow users to make status changes to multiple campaigns at once including activation pausing and deletion. Users must confirm all status changes pop up alert before they are applied.

The Campaign Dashboard can also display a list of Ad Groups saved for that account along with detailed data for each including 

An Edit link can also be displayed for each Ad Group that can forward the user to the Edit Ad Group flow. Clicking on the Ad Group Name forwards the user to the Ad Group Dashboard. Users can have the option to delete ad group or category from the Campaign Dashboard. Deleting an ad group can remove the ad group and all keywords within that ad group from the dashboard view and the system permanently. User can be prompted for delete confirmation Are you sure you want to delete before the deletion takes place. Reporting data can be available as a summary of all deleted ad groups on Campaign Dashboards.

On the Create Campaign page users can have the ability to create one new campaign at a time. Users can be prompted for the following information 

The daily budget along with all other monetary parameters can utilize the currency set at the account level. The optimization engine infrastructure can be designed to allow multiple targeted countries per campaign. Clicking on the Continue button can forward the user to following 

From the Campaign dashboard users can have the ability to click an Edit link for each saved campaign. From this page users can be allowed to edit the settings for individual Campaigns including 

Users cannot be allowed to edit the campaign type setting from keyword to category or visa versa . Users can have the ability to change the Country that is targeted.

From this page users can also manage the status for creatives active or inactive and delete creatives. Users can also view keyword level data for keyword targeted Ad Groups including 

Users can also click a Bulk Edit link. After clicking the link the following data in the keyword reporting table can be displayed as an editable text input box 

The data above cannot be displayed for Category targeted Ad Groups. Instead the following data can be displayed 

From the Create Ad Group flow users can have the ability to create new Ad Groups for a campaign. The creation process can differ for keyword targeted and category targeted campaigns.

Users can have the ability to create one new Ad Group at a time for keyword targeted Campaigns. During the Ad Group creation process users can have to enter basic Ad Group information enter keywords to associate with the Ad Group and finally create the advertisements creatives to associate with the Ad Group. During the first step of the Ad Group creation flow users can be prompted for the following basic information 

Users can also enter a list of keywords into a free form text box one keyword per line and enter a default Max CPC value for the set of keywords. Keyword tagging board and exact can be supported in the Ad Portal to indicate matchtype exact match keywords can be contained within double quotes . All keywords can be normalized as follows with no notification to the user 

Inclusion of any special characters not on the lists above can trigger an error message. If a user enters a duplicate with the same matchtype in the list of keywords when creating or editing an ad group the duplicate can be dropped and no error message can be displayed.

After clicking the Continue button users can be forwarded to the next step where they can have the ability to create advertisements Creatives which includes Ad text an Ad image optionally and a destination URL Landing Page for the Creative. Upon choosing a Creative type users can be presented with a form to enter their Creative details. For each creative users can enter the following fields 

In addition we should verify that the specified Destination URL is a valid link and the domain of the Display URL matches the domain of the Destination URL. They can also have the option to upload an Ad Image for the creative. Uploaded images can be automatically resized and formatted in line with publisher ad image requirements before being stored in the server. The link to the image on the server can be stored in the Ad Portal database. Users can have the ability to optionally insert a keyword replacement tag within their creative text that can be substituted with the keyword string not the search string before being served. However a keyword replacement tag may not be supported for category campaigns.

Users can specify their keyword insertion criteria by inserted the following into their creative text headline line 1 line 2 and or display URL and Landing Page field at the Creative level param1 param2

Creative field length restrictions should be applied by the Ad Portal by comparing the summed character count of the backup string plus the non tag portion of the creative text against the limit. For example the creative line Looking for keyword cool stuff should be considered to have 22 characters. If the length restriction is exceeded a message should be displayed to the user. In a particular embodiment only the following special characters are allowed in creative strings 

Inclusion of any characters not on the lists above should trigger an error message. For both creative and keyword level landing pages the domain of the display friendly URL must match the domain of the destination URL. This rule can be enforced by the Ad Portal. In addition if the Destination URL is for a host item listings page a call to a host API can be made to ensure that the item has been approved. After the user has entered data for a creative they can have the option to either Continue if they do not need to add any more Creatives or Save and Create New . If they click the latter the saved preview for the Creative can be displayed at the bottom of the page along with any other saved creatives and the user can have the ability to repeat the process to add another Creative. In a particular embodiment we can allow five creatives per Ad Group with the ability to increase this limit to 10 . After the user has entered their last Creative they can click the Continue button to proceed to the keyword level data setup page.

After clicking the Continue button users can be forwarded to the next step where they can have the ability to optionally alter the CPC value and landing page for each of the keyword matchtypes they entered earlier. Keyword level landing pages are optional if a user has not chosen a keyword level landing page for a particular keyword the creative level landing page can be used instead. Keyword level Max CPC values are optional if a user has not chosen a keyword level Max CPC for a particular creative the Ad Group level Default Max CPC can be used instead. At this point the user has completing entering all of the necessary information for their new Ad Group. During this last step users can have the ability to review the details of their Ad Group to make any necessary changes before they click the Create button to complete the process. By clicking Create user can be prompt with create another ad group option. If user chooses yes user can be directed to create a new ad group within the same campaign selecting no can direct users to campaign dashboard.

The Ad Group creation process for category targeted campaigns can be designed to facilitate multi category targeting. From a single flow users can have the ability to associate multiple categories with a single set of Creatives. Users can have to go through the creation flow for each distinct Creative Set that they wish to create. The application can create one new Ad Group per category.

During the first step of the Ad Groups creation process users can be prompted to select the categories for targeting. Users can have the ability to navigate through the Ad Portal category tree structure and add categories to the targeted list. Tree level can be shown wherever category name is displayed. In addition users can have the ability to specify a default CPC that can be applied to all Category Ad Groups they can modify this on a per category basis later . After clicking the Continue button users can be forwarded to the next page in the flow CPC selection. On this page users can select a Max CPC value for each of the categories selected in the first step. The next step in the process can be the Creative Set and Landing Page selection. The UI for this page can be the same as the corresponding page in the keyword targeted Ad Group flow.

At this point the user has completing entering all of the necessary information for their new category targeted Ad Groups. During this last step users can have the ability to review the details of their Ad Groups to make any necessary changes before they click the Create button to complete the process. The application can create one Ad Group per selected category. Users cannot have the ability to assign keywords to category targeted Ad Groups. Instead the application can maintain a keyword list for each category. This list can be hidden from the user completely. The application can manage optimization and external partner bidding at the keyword level with the Ad Group level Max CPC bid used for all keywords but all category targeted reporting both UI and downloadable reports can be summarized at the Ad Group category level.

The Ad Portal can leverage the host product service category structure with the following assumptions 

It is assumed that the real time optimizer can only optimize for a keyword search query string not category therefore 

The Ad Portal can distinguish between the two category keyword mappings above so that they may be interpreted differently by the Offline Optimization job.

For both keyword targeted and category targeted campaigns users can only have the ability to edit one Ad Group at a time. When selecting the Edit Ad Group Settings link from the Ad Group dashboard users can be forwarded to a page where they can modify the following Ad Group settings 

Users cannot have the ability to edit the category setting in category targeted Ad Groups. Edit Creative can be treated as delete existing creative and adding a new one. Performance data for the edited creative can be lost. Edit Landing Page is considered an update but not delete add and performance data can be maintained.

From the Ad Group dashboard users can have the ability to click on individual keywords to modify their properties. From the Edit Keyword page users can modify the following 

There can be minimum bid and maximum bid set at the portfolio level for both keyword and category Max CPC cost per click and can be stored in US dollars in the database. In addition there can be minimum bid sets for individual keyword Max CPC and can be stored in US dollars in the database. During Ad Group creation there may not be a validation on the UI user interface for the keyword Max CPC entered by user against portfolio level minimum maximum bid and keyword level minimum bid. Once the Ad Group is saved Max CPC for each keyword if no Max CPC is defined for the keyword use Ad Group s default Max CPC can be checked against portfolio level minimum maximum bid and keyword level minimum bid. If the Max CPC is higher than the maximum bid portfolio an error message can be shown The Max CPC for the following keyword ad group has exceeded the maximum allowable amount of amount in local currency keyword ad group 

If the Max CPC is lower than either of the minimum bid portfolio keyword level the status of corresponding keyword can be changed to inactive with reason code below minimum bid . There should be UI message Please increase your Max CPC for this keyword next to the corresponding keyword in Ad Group dashboard. When the Max CPC of the ad group is updated the same validation should be triggered for all keywords without a defined Max CPC. If the updated Max CPC is higher than the maximum bid an error message can be shown The Max CPC for the following keyword ad group has exceeded the maximum allowable amount of amount in local currency keyword ad group 

If the updated Max CPC is higher equal to the minimum bid but below the maximum bid the status of the corresponding keyword s can be changed from inactive to inactive user paused . Only a keyword with the inactive status with reason code below minimum bid is eligible to be changed to inactive user paused . In addition the same validation should be applied to each keyword when Max CPC of that keyword is updated. If the updated Max CPC is higher than the maximum bid an error message can be shown The Max CPC for the following keyword s has exceeded the maximum allowable amount of amount in local currency keyword1 keyword 2 keyword 3 

If the updated Max CPC is changed to NULL or higher equal to the minimum bid but below the maximum bid the status of the corresponding keyword can be changed from inactive to inactive user paused . Only keyword with the inactive status with reason code below minimum bid is eligible to be changed to inactive user paused .

If a user s Max CPC at the category level exceeds the max bid show an error message to the user that says the following The Max CPC for the following category has exceeded the maximum allowable amount category name 

If a user s Max CPC at the category level is below the min bid restriction do not show an error to the user and just set the status of that category to inactive with a reason of below minimum bid . The user s Max CPC at the category level should be checked against both the portfolio min max requirement AND the category level min requirement if set . It must satisfy the restrictions at both levels. This check should be made both during creation and if the Max CPC is edited. If a category has a status of Inactive Below Min Bid and the Max CPC is edited and is no longer below the minimum bid restriction the status should be changed to Inactive User Paused so that the user can decide when to activate it. The minimum bid and maximum bid can be applied for all keyword matchtypes. Keyword Ad Group s status will not be affected in respect to the minimum bid and maximum bid value. During each validation the minimum and maximum bids stored in US dollars can be converted real time using the latest conversion rate in the database to the currency of the user s account.

From the Account Information page users can have the ability to view and modify personal information and billing information.

Changes made to user Ad Portal account settings cannot propagate to the user Publisher Portal settings. The following fields can be displayed and can be modified with the exception of the Country field 

Users can have the ability to export reporting data from each dashboard view. Exported report can be the complete data set not just the current page without pagination. Existing Publisher file format for UI reporting can be used i.e. excel or tab delimited text files. For both the UI view and export users can have the ability to specify a date range for the report where range restriction can be the same as the UI view. Historical data can be available for the previous 6 months. All monetary data elements can be displayed with the currency set for the Account.

ALL click events even those marked as fraudulent can be sent to Mediaplex. Impression events may not be sent to Mediaplex. Any impression or click event that is flagged as filtered must not do any of the following 

Because click processing may apply real time and off line click and impression filtering it may be necessary to reconcile against the list of correlated events that are returned in the Mediaplex data feed.

An Ad Unit is created for each distinct combination of the fields above. The real time optimizer can optimize at the Ad Unit level. Note that the system can allow scalability of the Ad Unit dimensions. It is understood that the system can optimize on additional dimensions. An Ad Unit can automatically be assigned to an Ad Unit Group by a scheduled batch job based on defined rules. The Optimization Management Console can allow administrative users to control scoring at the Group level by manipulating Group settings and Scoring Model assignment.

From the Console UI users can have the ability to set the following parameters for each Ad Unit Group 

A Scoring Model is a set of defined parameters coefficients that are applied to a set of variables. Users can create Scoring Models outside of the Ad Unit Group creation and assignment flows. Users can set the following basic criteria for a Scoring Model 

Users can then assign coefficients to the various scoring parameters. Parameters can be one of the following types 

From the Console UI users can have the ability to assign Scoring Models to an Ad Unit Group. Users can assign multiple models to a single Ad Unit Group up to a max limit and a single model can be applied to multiple Ad Unit Groups. An Ad Unit Group is not considered active and cannot be processed by the Offline Optimizer unless it has at least one model assigned to it. After users have selected the models to associate to the Ad Group they can enter their rotation distribution settings. Users can set a rotation percentage for each model. The rotation percentages can be defaulted to 1.00 of models and must add up to a total of 1.00 100 .

From the Console UI users can have the ability to assign Scoring Models to an Ad Unit Group. Users can assign multiple models to a single Ad Unit Group up to a max limit and a single model can be applied to multiple Ad Unit Groups. An Ad Unit Group is not considered active and cannot be processed by the Offline Optimizer unless it has at least one model assigned to it. After users have selected the models to associate to the Ad Group they can enter their rotation distribution settings. Users can set a rotation percentage for each model. The rotation percentages can be defaulted to 1.00 of models and must add up to a total of 1.00 100 .

In a particular embodiment the Optimizer can include an offline optimizer and a real time optimizer. The offline optimizer can generate rule sets for use by real time optimizer. The Offline Optimizer is a batch job that calculates the Offline score for every active Ad Unit. An Ad Unit is a container that represents the most granular level of ad detail for which we can optimize. This can include 

An offline score may not be factored into the real time optimization model but the infrastructure can be designed to support real time optimization based on both CPC cost per click and an offline score. For category targeted Ad Groups users may not have the ability set or manage keyword level data in the Ad Portal UI and keyword level data may not be present in the Ad Portal campaign tables. Instead a mapping can be maintained between each Ad Portal category and a keyword list. The optimizer can use this mapping to generate keyword level Ad Units for category targeted Ad Groups while assuming the following 

At the conclusion of the Offline Optimizer run the Ad Unit identifying information including Max CPC and additional data necessary for ad serving can be pushed into memory for access by the Real time Optimizer. The Offline Optimizer can send over a static Model ID along with the data above for access by the Real time Optimizer. Doing this can minimize the infrastructure and code changes that would be necessary once the system is enhanced to support multiple models.

During real time operation the RTM can make an ad request call to the Ad Server see above . The following data passed in from RTM can be relevant for ad optimization by the Ad Server 

Based on the parameters above the Real time optimizer can determine which ads should be served. To do this the optimizer can calculate a final score per qualifying Ad Unit per model and serve the top n ranked ads where n is the number of ads requested by RTM . In order for an Ad Unit to qualify it must satisfy the following criteria 

If users have inserted a keyword replacement tag within their creative text it can be substituted with the keyword string not the search string before being served. For qualifying Ad Units a final score can be determined per Ad Unit per model by using the following parameters 

The Match Score is a static multiplier that can applied based on the degree to which a keyword matches the search string passed in by RTM. For exact match keywords a constant multiplier can be applied to all keywords this may be 1.0 . For phrase match keywords the degree of the keyword match can be determined by the following formula Degree of Match of words tokens in keyword string of words tokens in search string 

For each degree of match range we can maintain a match score multiplier that can be applied for phrase match keywords that fall in that range. It can be assumed that the ranges can cover 0 100 without any gaps or overlaps. The factors that determine the Match Score may not be configurable through any user interface but it should be designed in a way that allows modifications on an infrequent basis.

For a segment of served ads a degree of randomness Perturbation Factor can be applied to the final score for eligible Ad Units before the final ranking is determined. The Perturbation Factor is a dynamic multiplier that can conditionally apply a degree of randomness for a segment of served ads. We can making the following assumptions 

The Real time Optimizer applies all of the multipliers above to the Max CPC for each Ad Unit to determine the Effective CPC eCPC for each. The Optimizer can return the top n ranked ads by eCPC where n is the number of ads requested by RTM to the Ad Server which can then pass the data back to RTM see above . The Optimizer may not return more than one ad from the same Account Advertiser for a single RTM call. In addition no more than one ad per account advertiser should be served per RTM call.

For example in reference to the table below if RTM requests 5 ads for the search string nintendo wii remote Optimizer may determine that ads 1 5 below should be served 

In order to determine the Actual CPC the amount actually charged for a click for each served ad we can use the Vickrey Auction model. The Actual CPC for each served ad can be the minimum between 

An additional multiplier may be applied globally on top of the value above to determine the final Actual CPC value. In this case the assumption is that the multiplier can be less than 1.00 to ensure that the final Actual CPC value is not greater than the Max CPC value. In the example table above if the Actual CPC multiplier is 1.00 the top ranked Ad Unit would have an Actual CPC value of 0.57. Ad Unit 5 would have an Actual CPC of 0.12.

A particular embodiment includes other features enabled by the design structures described above. These features can include 1 Keyword Bidding by Category and 2 Category Moniker.

In a particular embodiment of the Keyword Bidding by Category functionality the association of keywords and category can build an affinity between keywords and categories. This affinity can be used to create an ad format with bidding on keyword category level. Category functionality can extend to other grouping functions linked with host content including a host category hierarchy. In a particular embodiment of the Keyword Bidding by Category functionality an example method can include the following operations 

In a particular embodiment of the Category Moniker functionality an example method can include the following operations 

In view of the keyword bidding and advertising system described above a particular embodiment can provide a computer implemented method and system for keyword bidding in a market cooperative. As described above based on a seller advertiser s keyword bidding a seller advertiser s corresponding advertisements are trafficked to 3party content provider sites such as search engine providers e.g. Google Yahoo or MSN and displayed to users at the content provider sites in a manner corresponding to the seller s advertiser s keyword bid and the content provider s advertising protocol. In this manner the seller advertiser can control the exposure of the seller advertiser s ads on the particular content provider site. Typically a higher bid for a particular keyword results in a more favorable positioning of the related advertisement and thus a higher conversion rate. Users of the content provider site s can subsequently search for content on the content provider site s using search keywords that may correspond to the keywords on which the seller advertiser previously placed a bid. In that case advertising of the seller advertiser that corresponds to the search keyword s is shown to the user at the content provider site. If the user at the content provider site then clicks on or otherwise performs an action on the advertising of the seller advertiser the seller advertiser gets the benefit of the user action as the user is typically directed to a webpage e.g. a landing page associated with the seller advertiser. In return for this benefit of user action on the seller advertiser s ad the seller advertiser pays the keyword bid amount to the content provider site for serving the ad. The seller advertiser can determine the value of the user s action on the advertising of the seller advertiser by tracking the activity of the user to determine if the user subsequently performs a revenue producing action for the seller advertiser. Over time and using some of the revenue per click RPC modeling techniques described herein the seller advertiser can more accurately predict the optimal keyword bid value given an expected RPC resulting from a given keyword advertisement configured for a particular content provider site.

As described herein a host site may provide and perform services for a seller advertiser including managing the keyword bidding process for a particular seller advertiser. This keyword bidding management service provides many benefits for the seller advertiser including keyword clustering automated keyword bidding performance metrics calculations and other functions as described herein. However a particular embodiment also provides a market cooperative co op benefit as described next.

As described above a seller advertiser or a host managing keyword bidding for the seller advertiser can determine an expected RPC associated with a particular keyword using various embodiments. This expected RPC is based on the value accruing to the seller advertiser as a result of user action produced by the keyword. However at the same time that user action produced by the keyword is creating value for the seller advertiser the same user action can also be creating value for the host which is managing keyword bidding for the seller advertiser. For example as a result of the user action produced by the keyword and related advertisement the user at the content provider site may be redirected to a seller advertiser listing or landing page managed by the host. If the user subsequently makes a purchase or otherwise completes a transaction with the seller advertiser on the host site both the seller advertiser and the host can receive value from the user s transaction. In this situation the host can benefit when the user completes a transaction with the seller advertiser. Therefore the host has an incentive to do what it can to improve the likelihood that the user completes the commercial transaction while the host is managing the seller advertiser s keyword bidding.

One way for the host to improve the likelihood that the user completes a transaction with the seller advertiser on the host site is for the host to add value to the seller advertiser s bid for particular keywords keyword bid augmentation . If the host adds value to the seller advertiser s bid for a keyword thereby increasing the value of the keyword bid the higher value keyword bid is likely to improve the positioning of the seller advertiser s corresponding ad on the content provider s site and thereby improve the likelihood that a user will perform an action on the ad denoted a conversion rate improvement . Thus a host can benefit from adding value to the seller advertiser s bid for particular keywords. The host can also quantify the value it expects to receive as a result of adding value to the seller advertiser s keyword bids.

In various embodiments the host can use historical data and predictive data to quantify or predict the expected value of a user conversion e.g. user action on an advertisement on a seller advertiser s advertisement that relates to a keyword on which the host managed the keyword bidding for the seller advertiser. For example the historical data can include data associated with other user conversions on the same or similar keywords other user conversions on the same or similar advertisements other user conversions for the same seller advertiser other user conversions for similar products services and the like. Many other data items related to historical transactional product service and user information can be captured by the host and used to correlate user conversions with keyword advertisement combinations. Once enough data is collected predictive modeling can be used to extrapolate expected conversion rates and resulting RPC values for various keyword advertisement combinations. When this predictive data is generated the host can determine an amount of value that can be added to a seller advertiser s keyword bid to produce a predicted amount of value return to the host. Thus the host can augment the seller advertiser s keyword bid by this amount in a market co op arrangement to increase the resulting value for both the seller advertiser and the host. An example of this arrangement is illustrated in .

Referring now to a diagram illustrates the flow of activities in an example embodiment of the market cooperative arrangement. In the example shown a seller advertiser submits a bid for a keyword or keyword group to a host service . In this example the seller advertiser s keyword bid is valued for example at X. This can be a maximum bid amount. As described above the host service can use various modeling techniques along with historical and predictive data to compute an expected value EV of the seller advertiser s keyword bid to the host. This expected value EV is related to the value to the host of a user conversion on the seller advertiser s advertisement corresponding to the keyword upon which the bid was placed. Given this expected value EV computation the host can determine a value Y for example by which the seller advertiser s keyword bid can be augmented. This can be a maximum bid augmentation amount. The host service can then augment the seller advertiser s keyword bid X by adding in the host contributed value Y based on the expected value EV of the keyword bid to the host . The augmented keyword bid X Y can then be submitted to one or more content provider sites such as search engines as the keyword bid submittal by a market cooperative including the seller advertiser and the host service . This submitted bid can be considered a maximum bid amount.

Referring still to the augmented keyword bid X Y received by the one or more search engines causes the one or more search engines to configure the seller advertiser s associated advertisement to appear in a particular location on a search engine s web page the particular location corresponding to the value of the augmented keyword bid X Y in comparison to other bids received from other advertisers for the same keyword. However the particular position on a search engine s web page assigned to the seller advertiser s associated advertisement is a more favorable location compared to a location that the seller advertiser s associated advertisement would have been assigned if the seller advertiser s bid had only been for a value of X without the augmented value of Y provided by the host . Given the more favorable advertising location enabled by the augmented keyword bid X Y the seller advertiser and the host can expect a more favorable conversion rate and a higher RPC from the search engines . Note that the actual traffic value corresponding to the ad may be less than the maximum augmented keyword bid X Y. As shown in user action e.g. click through activity on the seller advertiser s associated advertisement on the search engine s web page can cause the user to be redirected to a host web page because the host is responsible for managing the seller advertiser s listing and or landing page. As such the host receives value from the user s presence on the host site. In some cases the user may click through on a seller advertiser s product service listing and complete a commercial transaction with the seller advertiser . In this case both the seller advertiser and the host receive value for the completed commercial transaction. In other cases the user may click through to other host site web pages and or listings that are not connected with the seller advertiser . In some cases the user may find a web page and or listing of interest on the host site and complete a commercial transaction on an item that is not connected with the seller advertiser . In this case the host receives value for the completed commercial transaction but the particular seller advertiser does not. In each of these cases the host receives value from the user s presence on the host site as enabled by the augmented keyword bid provided by the host as part of a market cooperative embodiment described herein.

As a result of the user click through on the seller advertiser s product service listing or ad the corresponding search engine will charge a traffic value to the host . The actual traffic value corresponding to the ad may be equal to or less than the maximum augmented keyword bid X Y. If the actual traffic value corresponding to the ad is equal to the maximum augmented keyword bid X Y the host pays Y to the corresponding search engine and the seller advertiser pays X to the corresponding search engine or to the host as a proxy for the corresponding search engine . If the actual traffic value corresponding to the ad is less than the maximum augmented keyword bid X Y the host and the seller advertiser pay pro rated shares of the actual traffic value based on the ratio of their bid amounts Y and X.

In some embodiments it may be beneficial for the seller advertiser to have the seller advertiser s ads trafficked to a variety of content provider sites instead of just one or a few. In this manner advertisements can be exposed to a greater number or more diverse group of consumers who visit a group of content provider sites. To offer seller advertisers additional impressions from these other sources a host can expand its market cooperative with a variety of content provider sites and with a variety of seller advertisers. As part of this expanded market co op the advertising infrastructure described above can be used to traffic seller advertiser s ads to a variety of 3party content providers such as search engine providers e.g. Google Yahoo and MSN and other content providers engaged in keyword auctioning and advertising. Seller advertisers can have the option to opt in or out of this market cooperative functionality on a campaign basis. In some cases the host can subsidize the seller advertiser CPC s from a host budget. As described above the environment in which an embodiment operates includes capabilities for sending and receiving information via application programming interfaces API s . As such the initial keyword bid can be obtained from the seller advertiser via an API. Also the augmented keyword bid can be submitted to the content provider via an API.

Referring now to a diagram illustrates the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate. In this conventional network architecture a server computer system is coupled to a wide area network . Wide area network includes the Internet or other proprietary networks which are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Wide area network may include conventional network backbones long haul telephone lines Internet service providers various levels of network routers and other conventional means for routing data between computers. Using conventional network protocols server may communicate through wide area network to a plurality of client computer systems connected through wide area network in various ways. For example client is connected directly to wide area network through direct or dial up telephone or other network transmission line. Alternatively clients may be connected through wide area network using a modem pool . A conventional modem pool allows a plurality of client systems to connect with a smaller set of modems in modem pool for connection through wide area network . In another alternative network topology wide area network is connected to a gateway computer . Gateway computer is used to route data to clients through a local area network LAN . In this manner clients can communicate with each other through local area network or with server through gateway and wide area network .

Using one of a variety of network connection means server computer can communicate with client computers using conventional means. In a particular implementation of this network configuration a server computer may operate as a web server if the Internet s World Wide Web WWW is used for wide area network . Using the HTTP protocol and the HTML coding language across wide area network web server may communicate across the World Wide Web with clients . In this configuration clients use a client application program known as a web browser such as the Internet Explorer published by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the user interface of America On Line or the web browser or HTML renderer of any other supplier. Using such conventional browsers and the World Wide Web clients may access image graphical and textual data provided by web server or they may run Web application software. Conventional means exist by which clients may supply information to web server through the World Wide Web and the web server may return processed data to clients .

Having briefly described one embodiment of the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate show an example of a computer system illustrating an exemplary client or server computer system in which the features of an example embodiment may be implemented. Computer system is comprised of a bus or other communications means and for communicating information and a processing means such as processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system further comprises a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device commonly referred to as main memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Computer system also comprises a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

An optional data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk and its corresponding drive may also be coupled to computer system for storing information and instructions. Computer system can also be coupled via bus to a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. For example image textual video or graphical depictions of information may be presented to the user on display device . Typically an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and or command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a conventional mouse trackball or other type of cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selection to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Alternatively the client can be implemented as a network computer or thin client device. Client may also be a laptop or palm top computing device such as the Palm Pilot . Client could also be implemented in a robust cellular telephone where such devices are currently being used with Internet micro browsers. Such a network computer or thin client device does not necessarily include all of the devices and features of the above described exemplary computer system however the functionality of an example embodiment or a subset thereof may nevertheless be implemented with such devices.

A communication device is also coupled to bus for accessing remote computers or servers such as web server or other servers via the Internet for example. The communication device may include a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for interfacing with Ethernet Token ring or other types of networks. In any event in this manner the computer system may be coupled to a number of servers via a conventional network infrastructure such as the infrastructure illustrated in and described above.

The system of an example embodiment includes software information processing hardware and various processing steps which can be described below. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations may be described. It can be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

Thus a computer implemented method and system for keyword bidding in a market cooperative are disclosed. While the present invention has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

