---

title: System and method for identifying customers in social media
abstract: A system and method for identifying an author of a social media interaction. A social media profile may be received for a user interacting in a social media interaction in a social media environment. The social media profile may include identification parameter(s) defining personal information registered to the user in the social media environment and content parameter(s) defining content of the user's social media interaction. For each of a plurality of customers registered in a contact center environment, a contact center profile may be received for the customer including identification parameter(s) defining personal information registered to the customer in the contact center environment and content parameter(s) defining content of the customer's past contact center interactions. The user's social media profile and customer's contact center profile may be compared to determine if the social media user and contact center customer have the same identity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977573&OS=08977573&RS=08977573
owner: Nice-Systems Ltd.
number: 08977573
owner_city: Ra'anana
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20120301
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to systems and methods for monitoring social media channels in a contact center environment. Embodiments of the invention may analyze social media channels using techniques such as machine learning pattern analysis information retrieval discourse analysis and topic modeling.

Contact centers may enable company agents to interact with customers via multiple channels of communication such as text messaging short message service SMS messaging electronic mail e mail messaging and telephone channels. However many customers only interact with contact centers after a problem escalates for example as a last resort. Before interacting with a contact center customers often turn to peers or other people to discuss their issues over social media channels such as message boards web logs blogs or micro blogs such as Facebook and Twitter outside of the contact center environment. Current contact centers have no way to identify authorship of social media posts or interactions that occur outside of their contact center environment and therefore cannot benefit from the connection of this valuable social media information to traditional interaction channels.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for identifying an author of a social media interaction. A social media profile may be received for a user interacting in a social media interaction in a social media environment. The social media profile may include identification parameter s defining personal information registered to the user in the social media environment and content parameter s defining content of the user s social media interaction. For each of a plurality of customers registered in a contact center environment a contact center profile may be received for the customer including identification parameter s defining personal information registered to the customer in the contact center environment and content parameter s defining content of the customer s past contact center interactions. The user s social media profile and customer s contact center profile may be compared to determine if the social media user and contact center customer have the same identity.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for determining if an author of a social media interaction is one of a plurality of customers. Identification information may be received that is registered by the author of the social media interaction that is publicly available. The author s received identification information may include a channel specific identifier associated with a social media channel and the identification information registered for the plurality of customers may include a channel specific identifier associated with a different communication channel. Embodiments of the invention may determine if the author of the social media interaction is one of the plurality of customers based on the similarities between the author s and user s respective identification information and content information describing the content of the author s social media interaction and content information describing the content of the customer s past interactions.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following description various aspects of the present invention will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without the specific details presented herein. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the present invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

When used herein a social media post or interaction may refer to any activity or entry of content over a social media channel for example via voice text video links to other webpage content or by simply selecting a field such as to like or accept a friend request in Facebook subscribing to a blog or signing up for tweets on Twitter. In addition to these active posts posts or interactions may also be passive such as having an advertisement displayed in the user s social media account receiving another author s post automatic log outs automatic counters tracking behavior such as most recent post etc. Similarly a contact center interaction may include any communication between a customer and a live or automated contact center agent or device which may be initiated by either party.

Embodiments of the invention may monitor social media channels which occur outside of the contact center environment to supplement other traditional contact center channels such as telephone and Internet to provide a more complete view of customers experiences. When used herein interactions that occur outside of the contact center environment may include customer interactions with one or more parties or accounts not affiliated with the contact center over communication channels not registered to the contact center hosted at servers not owned or operated by or on behalf of the contact center and using user identification types such as usernames or pseudonyms that differ from identification types registered to customers in the contact center environment.

Monitoring social media interactions may allow contact centers to obtain customer experience information before the customer issue escalates or the customer communicates with the contact center. Furthermore social media channels may provide unique access to a customer s honest and uncensored communication. The anonymity and wide audience of social media typically allows users to communicate more freely and with less fear of offending than in direct communication with contact center agents. Accordingly social media information may allow agents to gain a true understanding of a customer s uncensored perspective.

To retrieve social media posts embodiments of the invention may probe social media channels using social media application programming interfaces APIs data provided by third party data compilers or directly using web crawlers to probe blogs forums and web sites. Other probes may be used. The probe may use any type of search filter to sort or identify posts based on any criteria such as related to a company product or topic having certain keywords or terms in the post etc.

Once the probe extracts social media posts it may be difficult to identify the authors of the posts. For example each social media service may store different types of user information than the contact center users may use pseudonyms user names or nicknames inconsistent with names registered or recorded at the contact center user information may become outdated over time availability of user information may be limited by privacy settings etc. Accordingly to accurately identify the author of social media posts embodiments of the invention may go beyond simply matching user data. When used herein a user may register with an organization such as a social media organization or a customer may register with an organization such as a contact center for example by signing up with the organization or having an account with the organization and thus the organization may store information associated with the user or customer.

To identify if a user of social media is a registered customer in a contact center or with another entity embodiments of the invention may consider a combination of factors including not only identification information which may vary but also the content of the social media post the user s style topic tone etc. . In some embodiments the user s identifying information may be compared using a fuzzy match criterion which recognizes not only exact matching terms but also similar though not exactly matching terms. In one example A Smith Aaron Smith and A. E. Smith may match under a fuzzy match criterion.

An equivalence relation may be used to compare the combination of factors between the user s social media profile and the customer s contact center profile. The equivalence relation may score each factor and combine the factors as a weighted or non weighted sum to determine a final equivalence or confidence score. If the confidence score exceeds a predetermined threshold the social media user and contact center customer may be linked or deemed as equivalent entities. The predetermined threshold may define a level of exactness required for a match and may be fixed or changeable. The predetermined threshold may be set during a testing phase based on previously verified matches for example to balance maximizing the accuracy of matches while minimizing missed matches. If no customers are found to match a social media user the user s post may be deleted. Alternatively the user s post may be saved for a predetermined amount of time to retroactively be matched if the user registers or signs up as a customer within that time. Ideally at most one customer may match each user. If however more than one customer matches a user the threshold may be automatically refined to allow only the highest scoring customer to match e.g. if the confidence scores are sufficiently different such as by greater than 10 to clearly favor the highest scoring customer or alternatively no match is made. In some embodiments an additional verification step may be used for a contact center agent or administrator to verify the match. If the equivalence relation defines a match the social media user and contact center customer may be linked as equivalent. Once linked the contact center may add that user s social media posts as a channel of communication to be monitored for the associated customer.

The content of the social media post may be automatically analyzed to determine the subject or issue of the post for example to generate or retrieve pre generated solutions insights sale offers promotions etc. to prompt the agent to communicate to the customer. The content of the social media post may further be analyzed to determine the author s tone or the emotional content of the communication for example to determine the urgency of the issue and provide a response proportional to that urgency to prepare or warn an agent especially when communicating with hostile or upset customers so that the agent may best handle social aspects of interacting with that customer etc.

Once alerted that there is a relevant social media post a contact center agent may resolve the issue within the social media environment or within contact center environment. In the social media environment the agent may use a company account e.g. the company for which the agent works registered to the social media service to communicate directly with customers within or via the social media environment thereby reducing the volume of communications in the contact center environment. In the contact center environment the social media information may be used to inform and prepare the agent to better anticipate the customer s needs. Since the customer s issues are already known by the time they interact with the contact center the contact center agent may be automatically prompted with such information and or solutions to efficiently handle customer issues. In some embodiments contact center agents may take pro active steps to initiate contact with the customer when an issue is raised outside of the contact center environment or alternatively may wait for the customer to initiate contact.

Social media interactions may be tracked in real time for example while the user is communicating in the social media environment or at a small time delay thereafter e.g. on the order or a few second .

Agents may include real life interactive personnel automated computer agents avatars voice or text prompts etc. or a combination semi live semi automated agent.

Reference is made to which schematically illustrates a system for monitoring a customer s social media interactions in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

System may include one or more user devices . Customers or users may operate user devices to interact over one or more communication channels via one or more networks e.g. such as the Internet chat or telephone networks . User devices may include computers for web or Internet connections telephones for telephone or radio network connections or messaging or text enabled devices for messaging network connections .

User devices may connect to a social media environment or a contact center environment . Contact center environment may be hosted or operated by a contact interaction center to provide support for a target company or entity and interact with customers on the target company s behalf. While environment separate from a social media environment in which it is desired to pair or match customers to social media users includes in one embodiment a contact interaction center in other embodiments contact center environment may be hosted or operated by an entity other than a contact center such as the target company or entity itself a research group user devices etc. In contrast to contact center environment social media environment may not be hosted by the target company and may have no direct affiliation with the target company although the target company may be discussed in social media forums advertise on social media sites and the target company or its representative may itself be a social media user. When used herein customers of the target company may be registered in contact center environment and users of social media or authors of social media posts may be registered in social media environment .

In contact center environment customers may interact with live e.g. human or automated e.g. computer generated or operated agents for example operating or being executed by agent devices in an interaction center . Interactions center may operate or execute call centers for telephone based support and or online support forums for Internet based support to automatically connect user devices to agent devices . Agents operating agent devices may provide customers with customer support conduct transactions for purchasing products or services fill out surveys or polls conduct marketing analysis update data records or provide other products or services. Agent devices may include the same or different device s as user devices such as computers telephones cellular devices and or messaging devices.

In social media environment users may interact over a social media platform provided by social media servers . Social media servers may provide any type of social media technology including for example web logs blogs video blogs vlogs microblogs wikis podcasts instant messages etc. Social media servers may be operated by providers such as Facebook Twitter Wikipedia YouTube etc. Users of social media environment may write or author social media posts relevant to the target company for example discussing problems or solutions for resolving technical issues providing company feedback recommendations or criticisms for products or services etc. Information shared in social media environment may be unique and distinct from information provided in contact center environment . For example social media interactions may occur at a relatively earlier stage of problem escalation and typically encourage a relatively more open form of communication.

To obtain this valuable information interaction center may include a probe to search for interactions in social media environment that relate to the target company or entity. Probe may include social media APIs e.g. specific to each social media host or server a link to a third party data compiler or web crawlers to probe blogs forums and web sites hosted by social media servers . Probe may use any suitable type of search filter to identify and extract posts based on any suitable criteria.

To for example provide customer specific support or for other reasons interaction center may determine if the author of each post in social media environment is the same entity e.g. the same person as a customer registered in or signed up with contact center environment . Since the same entity may have different identifying information or different types or forms of identifying information available in the different environments and interaction center may use an equivalence relation weighing a combination of factors to determine if the social media user that authors a post is equivalent to the customer. The equivalence relation may compare identification information respectively registered to or associated with the user and the customer in their respective environments and which may differ and may also compare content in the user s social media post to content associated with the customer in contact center environment . Identification information may include username or user identifier ID legal name age date of birth place of residence occupation etc. Content may include for example the substance of social media posts or interactions e.g. the actual text data or other information or derivations or metatdata from these posts such as for example subject or topic sentiment or emotion e.g. one of a predetermined group of emotional or sentiment states tone opinion style vocabulary the presence of certain keywords average length of sentences unique phrases slang and emoticons. Using the equivalence relationship that weighs both identifying information and content information interaction center may determine whether or not the social media user and contact center customer match. The match may define an exact or approximate fuzzy equivalence. If a match is determined interaction center may add the user s social media post and or all of the user s future relevant posts as a channel of communication e.g. from social media server to be monitored for the equivalent customer. In other contexts e.g. where an organization performing matching is not a contact center other further actions may occur.

User device agent devices social media servers and interaction center may each include one or more controller s or processor s and respectively for executing operations and one or more memory unit s and respectively for storing data and or instructions e.g. software executable by a processor. Processor s and may include for example a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP a microprocessor a controller a chip a microchip an integrated circuit IC or any other suitable multi purpose or specific processor or controller. Memory unit s and may include for example a random access memory RAM a dynamic RAM DRAM a flash memory a volatile memory a non volatile memory a cache memory a buffer a short term memory unit a long term memory unit or other suitable memory units or storage units. User device and agent device may include one or more input devices for receiving input from a user or agent e.g. via a pointing device click wheel or mouse keys touch screen recorder microphone other input components and output devices and e.g. a monitor display or screen for displaying data to a user customer and agent respectively.

User device agent devices social media servers and interaction center may each be or include for example software executed on one or more processors and while this software may be in one processing device or server it is not necessarily executed by the same processor or within the same computing device.

Reference is made to which schematically illustrates a system for generating data used to monitor a customer s social media interactions in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

System includes a social media environment e.g. social media environment of and a contact center environment e.g. contact center environment of .

Contact center environment may include a capture module e.g. a software or hardware module in interaction center or agent device of that captures interactions between a user device e.g. user device of operated by a targeted customer and an agent device e.g. agent device of operated by a company agent . Captured interactions may include for example voice interactions chat interactions e mail messages SMS messages etc. Capture module may extract customer data from each interaction according to predefined rules for each channel of communication for example as follows.

To identify the interacting customer extracted customer data may be compared to identification information registered to or associated with contact center customers for example stored in a customer information database such as a customer relationship management CRM database. In one embodiment database may store customer information separately for each channel e.g. telephone numbers for a telephone channel usernames or customer IDs for an Internet channel etc. . Each customer entity may be correlated in database with a unique system ID to identify their interactions over all channels. If the extracted customer data matches the identification information registered to the customer for the corresponding channel in database the correlated customer entity may be identified as the customer of the interaction and their unique system ID may be attached or assigned to the interaction for example as customer metadata.

Once the customer is identified a customer profile may be generated or received that includes the identification information registered to the customer in contact center environment as well as content information detailing the content of the customer s interactions . Customer profile defining interaction content and personal identification details of a customer in contact center environment may be compared with an author profile defining post content and identification information of an author in social media environment .

To search for the target customer s social media posts social media environment may search or filter social media posts to retrieve posts that have authorship information that substantially matches customer metadata for the target customer or alternatively may be unfiltered for indiscriminately analyzing all posts. Author data e.g. an author ID may be extracted from each post identifying an author of the post. An author profile may be generated or received for the author that includes the identification information registered to or associated with the author in social media environment as well as content information detailing the content of the social media posts .

Customer profile and author profile may be compared to determine if the customer and the author are the same entity. If so author s data may be added to the customer s identifying information in customer database and or the author s posts may be added as a social media channel in contact center environment . Contact center environment may use author s data to stream all of the author s posts over time from social media environment or only a sub set of those posts e.g. that meet criteria such as related to a target company within a recent period of time etc. If the comparison of profiles and shows that the customer and author are not the same entity the comparison may be refined e.g. by updating information or requiring a less exact match or the customer and author may be determined to be different entities.

This cross environment analysis may incorporate a social media channel from social media environment into a group of traditional channels such as telephone web e mail messaging etc. in contact center environment . In one example contact center agents may use the social media channel to identify customer comments before the customers communicate with contact center environment or issues escalate. Agents may respond to customer comments via contact center environment e.g. initiating a call with the customer or via social media environment e.g. responding to their posts as another social media user. In one example agents may use social media environment to encourage customers to solve their issues over the social media channel to reduce contact center communications. Alternatively agents may wait until customers communicate with contact center environment to handle customer issues.

Reference is made to which is a workflow of a method for generating a customer s contact center or other organization profile in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment a customer s contact center or other company profile e.g. customer profile of is a collection of data describing a person s use of and or identity associated with a contact center e.g. interaction center of or other platform or service.

In operation a processor e.g. contact center processor of may receive interactions for each customer captured over one or more communication channels in a contact center environment e.g. contact center environment of . When audio or voice data is received e.g. over telephone or computer telephony integration CTI channels a process or processor may proceed to operation while when text or visual data is received a process or processor may proceed directly to operation e.g. skipping operation . In some embodiments both audio and text data may be received e.g. via video media in which case the data may be divided and each type of data may be processed separately.

In operation an audio analysis module e.g. hardware or software executed by contact center processor of may perform an audio analysis on the received audio data. The audio analysis module may include logic or analysis engines to perform tasks such as speech to text conversion word spotting emotion analysis call flow analysis e.g. numbers of transfers holds etc. talk analysis e.g. durations of talking silence etc. and any other operations for analyzing comprehending and predicting the content and meaning of audio data.

In operation a linguistic analysis module e.g. hardware or software executed by contact center processor of may perform linguistic analysis on text data captured directly or converted from audio data in operation . The linguistic analysis module may include logic or analysis engines to perform linguistic tasks such as automatic transcription of calls e mail messages and chats parts of speech POS tagging stemming and extracting syntactic phrases such as noun phrases verb phrases etc. The linguistic analysis module may use POS tagging to assign a particular part of speech such as a noun verb or preposition to one or more words in a text for example based on the word s definition and context. The linguistic analysis module may use word stemming to reduce inflected or derived words to their base forms for example a single form for nouns a present tense for verbs etc. The stemmed word may be the written form of the word. In some embodiments stem words may be used for further processing instead of the original word from the text in order to broaden the linguistic analysis. POS tagging and word stemming may be performed for example using LinguistxPlatform software manufactured by SAP AG of Waldorf Germany although other software may be used.

In operation a content analysis module e.g. hardware or software executed by contact center processor of may analyze the content of interactions e.g. via text captured directly or linguistically analyzed in operation to extract features that may be used to build the customer profile. The content analysis module may include logic or analysis engines to perform tasks such as phrase analysis style analysis and customer details extraction. For phrase analysis the content analysis module may extract topics from customer interactions. Phrase analysis may be executed for example as described in reference to .

Reference is made to which is a workflow of a method for analyzing phrases in customer interactions in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment workflow may be a sub task of content analysis operation of .

In operation a content analysis module e.g. e.g. hardware or software executed by contact center processor of may identify and extract one or more main terms such as topics or phrases that the customer commonly uses in their interactions.

In operation the content analysis module may represent the extracted terms as a weighted model which may be referred to as a bag of words BOW model in which the terms are weighted according to an information retrieval measure such as a term frequency inverse document frequency tf idf weight. Other weighted measures may be used to weigh customer profile terms such as Kullback Leibler divergence mutual information measure conditional entropy measure etc.

In operation if the weighted values of the terms fall within the threshold value range the content analysis module may determine that the weighted terms are keywords that may be used to characterize the content of the customer s interactions.

In other examples statistical methods such as Latent Dirichlet Allocation LDA may be used to extract topics from the customer s interactions.

For style analysis the content analysis module may analyze the characteristic or typical writing style of the customer through their interactions with the contact center. Style features may be extracted by analyzing the grammatical properties of interactions content. Style features may include for example other style features may also be used 

In operation the processor may extract customer data from the customer interaction and search a customer information database e.g. customer database of to find matching identifying information registered to or associated with a contact center customer or account. Identifying information may include a channel specific identifier associated with each of the contact center s communication channels such as e mail address telephone number IP address etc. e.g. identifiers for channels other than the social media channels . Channel specific identifiers may include identification uniquely associated with a channel where for example an e mail address is unique to an e mail channel a telephone number is unique to a telephone channel and an IP address is unique to a web channel. Identifying information may also include personal data identifying the customer such as age primary residence address gender occupation marital status etc. The processor may use data registered to the customer e.g. stored in customer information database to augment or replace customer data that is missing or not up to date and may provide a unique system ID associated with the matching customer. In one example to extract customer data from interactions content the processor may apply textual analysis which may comprise linguistic analysis followed by matching the resulting text to predetermined rules or applying a statistical method. One or more rules may identify or resolve a name a relation or an event to an entity. A rule may be represented as a pattern of elements and optionally operators applied to the elements. The elements may include strings lexicons parts of speech etc. and the operators may be indicate the distance between two elements or tokens e.g. or optional or others.

In operation the processor may generate or receive a profile such as the customer s contact center profile. The customer s profile may be a weighted sum of the customer s content information or a derivation thereof analyzed in operation and identifying information or a derivation thereof extracted in operation which may be represented as a vector of features and their associated values and weights. In one example the customer profile may be defined by a tuple representation of the features such as entity property value. Other data representations may be used. For example if a customer s name is John Smith the customer s profile identification information may be represented as name first name John and name last name Smith and for example if a short term topics model reveals the customer s interactions include the word iphone the customer s profile content information may be represented as topic short term iphone. Each profile feature may have different weights each representing the importance or the confidence of each feature. The customer s contact center profile may be stored and used to compare to an author s social media profile to determine if the contact center customer is the same entity as a social media author.

Reference is made to which is a workflow of a method for generating an author s social media profile in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment a social media profile e.g. author profile of is a collection of data describing a person s use of and or identity associated with a social media platform or service e.g. provided by one or more social media servers of .

In operation social media posts or interactions hosted by a social media server e.g. server of may be transferred to and or received by a contact center processor e.g. processor of for example using a public search API provided by the social media server a third party data provider or directly by a web crawler searching blogs forums and websites. The posts may be filtered using a search criterion such as keyword matching relevancy to a target company dates of posts etc. in order to retrieve posts relevant to the target company or entity. Additional query expansion and disambiguation techniques may be used.

In operation a linguistic analysis module e.g. hardware or software executed by contact center processor of may perform linguistic analysis on the social media posts.

In operation a content analysis module e.g. hardware or software executed by contact center processor of may analyze the content of the social media posts to extract features that may be used to build the author profile. The content analysis module may include logic or analysis engines to perform tasks such as phrase analysis style analysis and author details extraction.

In operation the contact center processor may retrieve identifying information registered to the author that is publicly available on the social media server e.g. using a probe e.g. probe of that may query the social media server API or retrieve the information via other public databases. Identifying information may include a channel specific identifier associated with a social media channel such as a Facebook ID unique associated with a Facebook channel a Twitter ID unique associated with a Twitter channel etc.

and or other personal data identifying the author such as age primary residence address gender occupation marital status e mail address telephone number etc. The processor may use the data registered to the author in the social media service to augment or replace the author s data that is missing or not up to date.

In operation the contact center processor may generate or receive the author s social media profile. In other embodiments the author s social media profile may be previously generated or received. The author s profile may be represented as a weighted sum of the author s content information analyzed in operation and identifying information retrieved in operation . The author s profile may be represented as a vector of features and their associated values and weights. In one example the author s profile may be defined by the following representation of tuples entity property value. For example if the profile linked to the post lists the name of the author as John Smith the author s profile may be represented as name first name John and name last name Smith . If only the author s nickname pseudonym or user name is available the profile name may be identified as for example name nick name john123 . Each profile feature may have different weights representing the importance or the confidence of each feature. Other profile representation methods may be used. In other embodiments the customer and author data may be compared without using profiles or their profiles may include any form of their data so that a profile comparison may include any data comparison.

Reference is made to which schematically illustrates data structures used in the workflow of to generate an author s social media profile in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

A probe e.g. probe of such as an API query may be applied to social media data to extract an author s profile and posts . The retrieved posts may be analyzed for content such as phrase analysis and style analysis . Account details may also be extracted from retrieved posts to identify the author. To supplement or replace account details that are missing or not up to date structured data may be retrieved e.g. from the social media server e.g. server of or another publicly accessible database defining the author s information registered in the social media environment. Together the author s content information or derivations or metadata thereof e.g. phrase analysis and style analysis and identifying personal information or derivations or metadata thereof e.g. account details and or structured data may be used to generate author s profile . Author s profile may define both the identity and style content of the author with parameters such as age location vocabulary topics style etc. In other embodiments author s profile may be previously generated generated using another process or not used where the actual author s information or derivatives may be used.

Once contact center customer profiles and social media profiles are generated or received e.g. as shown in workflows and of respectively the profiles may be compared to determine if the profiles are similar or correlated. Each profile may define values for at least two parameters e.g. a content parameter and an identification parameter which may be represented as a vector having values in at least two respective dimensions. To measure the similarity between the social media profile and the contact center profile a vector similarity such as a cosine similarity may be calculated between the social media profile vector representation and the contact center profile vector representation. Cosine similarity may measure the similarity between the vectors by measuring the cosine of the angle between them. The cosine of a zero angle is 1 and less than 1 for any other angle. The cosine of the angle between the two vectors may therefore be used to determine whether the two vectors similar e.g. pointing in the same or similar directions and thus if the associated profiles represent the same entity. The social media and contact center profiles may have other measures of similarity or difference such as a weighted Euclidian distance an arithmetic mean distance and or a geometric mean distance. To determine whether the profiles are sufficiently close to represent the same identity the similarity measure or score of the closest matching profiles may be compared to a threshold. Threshold values may be set for example in a testing phase by determining a range of similarity measures for a set of manually matched profiles and setting the threshold range to include that similarity range e.g. or a distribution thereof such as the center 90 of the range .

Reference is made to which is a workflow of a method for identifying an author of a social media post in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

In operation a processor e.g. contact center processor of may receive the social media post or interaction. The post or interaction may be created by a user or author in a social media environment. The post or interaction may be found using a probe e.g. probe of searching a social media environment e.g. social media environment of for content related to a target entity or company topic keywords etc.

In operation the processor may generate or receive a social media profile for the user including one or more identification parameter defining personal information registered to the user in the social media environment and one or more content parameters defining or describing content of the user s social media post or interaction. Identification parameters may include for example first name last name age primary residence address gender occupation marital status e mail address telephone number etc. Other identification parameters may be used. Content parameters may include for example topic topic distribution temporal topic models linguistic richness sentiment tone opinion style vocabulary the presence of certain keywords average length of sentences unique phrases the use of slang or specific slang terms emoticons etc. Other content parameters may be used.

In operation for each of a plurality of customers registered in a contact center environment e.g. contact center environment of the processor may generate or receive a contact center profile for the customer including one or more identification parameters defining personal information registered to the customer in the contact center environment and one or more content parameters defining or describing the content of the customer s past contact center interactions. The same or different identification parameters and or content parameters may be used to generate the contact center profile as the social media profile.

In operation the processor may compare the user s social media profile with the customer s contact center profile to determine if the social media user and contact center customer have the same identity e.g. are the same person. In one embodiment the profiles may be compared using an equivalence relationship that compares the identification and content parameters of the respective profiles. The resulting equivalence value may be compared to a predetermined threshold defining a range for the equivalence relationship within which the social media user and contact center customer are determined to have the same identity. The predetermined threshold may be set in a testing phase to maximize the accuracy of determining users and customers to be identical that are already known to be identical. Other comparison methods may be used.

In some embodiments if the social media user is determined to have a different identity than all the contact center customers the processor may cause the user s social media profile to be stored for a predetermined period of time so that if the user registers as a contact center customer within the predetermined period of time the processor may retroactively determine their identity.

In one embodiment each of the user s profile and customer s profile is represented by a vector with identification and content parameters. For example a vector representing profile may have the form name first name John name last name smith address city Portland topic short term iphone topic short term battery style short sentences 0.3 etc. Each vector may represent the identification and content parameter values of each profile in different dimensions. The vector profiles may be compared by calculating the vector e.g. cosine difference between their representative vectors. Other data representations may be used.

In operation if the social media user and contact center customer are determined to have the same identity the processor may add that user s social media posts as a channel of communication to be monitored by the contact center for the associated customer. Other or different results or uses for a match may be used.

Other operations or orders of operations may be used. For example although some embodiments of the invention describe first searching for filtering posts or other interactions that meet criteria e.g. related to a target company and then filtering posts with the same identity as a target customer alternatively embodiments of the invention may first filter for posts or other interactions based on a customer search and then based on the criteria or company search.

Embodiments of the invention may analyze social media data based on a general topic analysis sentiment analysis opinion mining and additionally connect each individual post to a previous customer interaction and or each post s author to an individual customer.

It may be appreciated that real time or live operations such as tracking social media interactions may refer to operations that occur instantly at a small time delay of for example between 0.01 and 10 seconds during the operation or operation session concurrently or substantially at the same time as.

It may be appreciated that determining if a value falls within a range includes determining is a value is above a threshold the value range defined above the threshold below a threshold the value range defined below the threshold or between two or more thresholds the value range defined between two thresholds or the combination of ranges between multiple pairs of thresholds .

Different embodiments are disclosed herein. Features of certain embodiments may be combined with features of other embodiments thus certain embodiments may be combinations of features of multiple embodiments.

Embodiments of the invention may include an article such as a computer or processor readable non transitory storage medium such as for example a memory a disk drive or a USB flash memory encoding including or storing instructions e.g. computer executable instructions which when executed by a processor or controller cause the processor or controller to carry out methods disclosed herein.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. It should be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that many modifications variations substitutions changes and equivalents are possible in light of the above teaching. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

