---

title: Multiplatform management system and method for mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods for managing multiple wireless devices are disclosed. An exemplary system includes multiple domains each having a particular type of wireless device management system and respective (application programming interface) APIs. API call modules corresponding to each domain enable accessing of the APIs exposed by each of the respective domains. A management console enables compiling of a consolidated list of devices and users from each of the device management systems into a single view. An exemplary method includes querying multiple domains to obtain user information, compiling a consolidated list of users, displaying the consolidated list in a user interface, selecting a user from the consolidated list, and submitting a command to either all or a specific domain for the selected user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189753&OS=09189753&RS=09189753
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09189753
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120305
---
The present application claims priority to and is a non provisional of U.S. Application No. 61 550 830 filed Oct. 24 2011 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to mobile devices and in particular to management systems and methods for mobile devices of differing types and platforms deployed within an organization.

Company employees increasingly use their choice of mobile devices to carry out mobile business processes. IT departments are therefore faced with the challenge of centrally managing several mobile platforms simultaneously. When an enterprise deploys mobile devices of different types and platforms different management systems corresponding to the different devices and platforms are usually employed. This is typically because device manufacturers and vendors are interested in delivering mobile device management solutions that are specific to their own devices and that support their own product range. These systems allow an administrator to manage devices over the air including activating devices distributing software and applications locking or wiping devices enforcing and resetting device passwords setting IT policies and managing optional mobile applications for end users.

An organization wishing to deploy mobile devices from more than one manufacturer is faced with implementing and managing multiple management solutions. For example different types of devices may run on different operating systems and therefore require different types of management systems suited to their respective operating systems. Furthermore there may be different device platform capabilities with some devices further limited by the design of their operating system. A challenge presented by this arrangement is that when an enterprise customer wants to provision different types of devices across its enterprise network it may have separate device management systems and configuration databases that correspond to the different types of devices.

Further problems occur if an employee is assigned one or multiple mobile devices the person is usually represented by an account on each of the disparate management systems corresponding to the device type they have been given. This results in multiple accounts for the one person. A problem with this multiple accounts one user situation arises when attempting to manage the one user and his her multiple devices from a single management location.

Another difficulty presented by this arrangement is that the user and or the enterprise network may have different requirements for each of the user s accounts on the different devices. Also the enterprise network might impose different policies permissions and guidelines for each device type even though the accounts on each device belong to the same user.

The present disclosure describes a unitary management console with a user interface UI for use in an enterprise network that might include multiple domains corresponding to wireless device management systems. The unitary management console interfaces with multiple domains and associated management systems for device management actions directed to differing groups and types of mobile devices. It thereby provides dynamic and real time management of mobile devices in the multiple domains from a common management UI implemented as a single web based console. IT administrators are provided with a simple and efficient way to distribute software and manage policies inventory security and services for mobile devices.

Furthermore the present system avoids errors or synchronization of user accounts and their associated devices across disparate management systems by not employing or storing information in a separate database to those of the management systems. Instead the present system issues a query to the multiple domains in order to extract and then generate a consolidated list of the most current user and device information. Administrative tasks are therefore performed on this most current information without a need to update or maintain a list of consolidated users on a separate database. A common problem associated with systems implementing a separate database is the need to match user device records retrieved from the separate systems to records stored in the separate database requiring a mapping of the fields in between various databases to be maintained and updated whenever a new management system is added or when an existing management system database is upgraded. Furthermore the present system provides for various tasks such as implementing or updating IT policies provisioning devices etc to be distributed across all domains or selectively focused on a specific domain.

Accordingly the present disclosure provides a system for managing multiple wireless devices comprising multiple domains each having a particular type of wireless device management system and respective application programming interfaces APIs API call modules corresponding to each domain for accessing the API s exposed by each of the respective domains and a management console for compiling a consolidated list of devices and users from each of the systems requested via the API call modules.

There is further provided a method for managing multiple wireless devices comprising querying multiple domains to obtain device user information compiling a consolidated list of users from said querying selecting a user from the consolidated list and submitting a command to either all or a specific domain for the selected user.

Referring to there is shown a single platform or domain device management system and a collection of related service components. The system comprises various service components such as an administration service mail store service attachment service messaging agent synchronization service policy service mobile data software connection service MDS CS router a configuration database and one or more devices which may connect through cellular network to provide either voice or data services. Various functions and services of the management system are exposed or made available through appropriate APIs.

An enterprise network may include several different types of management systems and their associated service components similar to the single system as exemplified in . In the present description a domain is defined as a one of different types or classes of device management systems and a collection of the related service components such as the administration service attachment server mobile data software connection service MDS CS router a configuration database and one or more devices. A domain can contain only one type or class of management system but can contain one or multiple instances of each. For example different domains may support different operating systems and or device types.

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram of an exemplary multiplatform management system according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The system comprises a plurality of domains and in communication with a consolidated management console having a single user interface communicating through a web interface to enable management and control of the multiple different domains and and the associated different device types e.g. enterprise issued user equipment personal user equipment tablet and or user equipment with first or second operating systems . Each of the multiple domains has a particular type of management system and . The consolidated management console includes task based API call modules and corresponding to each domain for accessing the APIs and exposed by each of the respective domains and . The API call modules and respond to various task requests instructed by an Administrator through the user interface . The domain APIs provide a direct channel of communication into the configuration database through which a user can obtain representations of the objects in the management system. When requested the domain API retrieves an object or objects from the appropriate services and configuration databases in the management system and provides the requestor with the appropriate information. The domain APIs may also be used to access functions of the respective management systems. The management systems have one or more accounts corresponding to one or more devices.

In the illustrated embodiment of the consolidated management console with the single user interface is deployed in the enterprise network so as to communicate with the multiple different types of domains. In this exemplary enterprise network the deployed domains are a BlackBerry Enterprise Server BES domain a BlackBerry Enterprise Server Express domain a BlackBerry PlayBook Administration Service domain and a BlackBerry Universal Device Service or ubi Suite domain . However these are merely meant as examples and in other embodiments different domains from different vendors may equally be used.

The consolidated management console includes an aggregated user device data view module for compiling a consolidated list of devices and users requested from each of the systems. The consolidated management console provides a task based environment for allowing administrators to perform common administrative tasks via the UI against the consolidated list of users of different devices such as BlackBerry devices PlayBook tablets Apple iPhones Android based devices etc. across multiple domains.

The aggregated user device data view module is able to pool the user s multiple management system accounts 240 242 244 and 246 into a single view for presentation to the user interface while still treating the accounts as different objects and can provision and manage them separately and differently e.g. with different policies permissions and usage guidelines as will be described below.

In the example illustrated in a BES domain is associated with a group of enterprise issued mobile devices that operate with a full feature set. The BES Express domain is associated with a group of mobile devices that may be personalized. The BlackBerry PlayBook Administration Service domain is associated with a group of PlayBook tablets and the BlackBerry Universal Device Service or ubi Suite domain is associated with devices having for example the iOS operating system or the Android operating system.

A user can have multiple managed devices operating in the enterprise network. These devices are managed or administered by multiple different management system deployments e.g. BES BES Express BlackBerry PlayBook Administration Server and BlackBerry Universal Device Service or ubi Suite . Typically one device is only managed by one management system deployment but one management system deployment can manage multiple devices for the same single user.

Referring now to the figure shows a method for multiplatform management according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Initially an administrator or similar user performs a logon onto the consolidated management console via the UI accessed in one embodiment through the console web interface . The console may pass the logon information onto the various domains for authentication or may perform such authentication locally. Once the administrator is authenticated the console performs a logon onto all the domains and and issues a query through the respective domain APIs and for a list of information on users and associated devices. Upon receipt of the lists the console compiles the received lists into a consolidated list and displays the consolidated list on the UI .

Referring to the figure shows a method for multiplatform management using the displayed consolidated list obtained at block of . The logged on administrator selects from the displayed consolidated list a particular user or user s device to manage. An example screen showing the display of a consolidated list of users is shown in .

As shown in the example screen of the user can be represented by a name and or email address. Further the example screen of lists multiple rows of users and columns that present in addition to user name and email address a domain a device model a device personal identification number PIN and date and time of last user contact or activity as associated with the particular user.

Referring to the administrator then performs one or more tasks on the selected user . In the case illustrated in the user Paul Morley appears in two domains with respective devices in the domains. Referring to the console then selects the appropriate commands based on the tasks selected by the administrator and determines whether the commands are to be sent to all domains or to a specific domain . Details for each of the domains in which the user appears may be displayed as shown in the example screen shots and of and respectively.

The administrator may take administrative actions and perform device management of the different types of devices directly from the single user interface of the consolidated management console. Thus the administrator can seamlessly manage a single user from one amalgamated view of a user in the consolidated management console providing discrete management capabilities over each of the different device types via the disparate management systems across the multiple domains.

Within each of management system deployments and a mechanism is employed to identify the user the user s device s and to link the user to his devices. In one embodiment an identifier is used to identify an entity such as a user device etc. The identifier may have the following characteristics or attributes 

In an embodiment an email address is used as the globally unique identifier for the user as it has been found that all domains have available at least some form of email address associated with a user in the domain. Thus the user interface displays aggregate data for a single person from multiple management system deployments. For example in order to show the information for a specific user Joe Doe and not any and all users Joe Doe the console separately queries each deployed device management system to retrieve the details for the specific Joe Doe. A Joe Doe is identified to each device management system by associating with each user an identifier that is recognizable and useable by all the device management systems.

By having a uniformly accepted identifier such as an email address the consolidated management system may manage details for a single person supplied by a single management system to aggregated details for the same person with data from all or multiple management systems. However if multiple different identifiers are used because some of the management systems accept some but not others e.g. SIN SSN health card driver license then a way to translate the foreign identifier from one system into the native and acceptable identifier within each target system may be provided.

Based on these considerations the email address is suitable as the globally unique identifier for the user since 

In other words this unique identifier should exist and be common across each of the user s accounts on the disparate management systems in order to ensure that in fact the system is consolidating two or more records from the disparate backend management systems into a single consolidated view representing the actual singular user e.g. Paul Morley when managing from a common management UI. Each of the users accounts might have the same email identifier name sample enterprise associated with each of the user s devices e.g. BlackBerry device PlayBook tablet and Apple iPhone on each of the different management systems. The use of an email address is not meant to be limiting but is provided for illustrative purposes.

In one embodiment each of the device management systems within a given domain in the enterprise network includes a web services interface. The web services interface is a means through which other servers and devices exchange data and communicate with the management system. Such web services enable incompatible and disparate software systems to interoperate. The consolidated management console may communicate using web services calls to the appropriate APIs of each of the management systems through the web services interface of the particular management system. The consolidated management console communicates via standard web services calls to the web services interface of the management system.

Referring to there is shown a deployment diagram for the system according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated the consolidate management system may be deployed on a server and communicate with various input devices over a secure hypertext transport protocol HTTPS or HTTP protocol. Similarly the consolidated management server may communicate with the various domains using HTTP S protocol. The domains in turn may communicate with their respective databases over a dedicated secure connection.

In accordance with the present disclosure any network element including mobile devices and other equivalent technology could be used to perform the methods described herein. In general such network element will include a communications subsystem to communicate with other network elements a processor and memory which interact and cooperate to perform the functionality of the network element.

Further if the network element is a mobile device any mobile device may be used. One exemplary mobile device is described below with reference to . The use of the mobile device of is not meant to be limiting but is provided for illustrative purposes.

Mobile device is a two way wireless communication device. Depending on the exact functionality provided the wireless device may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a wireless e mail device a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device as examples.

Where mobile device is enabled for two way communication it can incorporate a communication subsystem including both a receiver and a transmitter as well as associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The particular design of the communication subsystem depends upon the communication network in which the device is intended to operate.

When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed mobile device may send and receive communication signals over the network . As illustrated in network can comprise multiple base stations communicating with the mobile device.

Signals received by antenna through communication network are input to receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and the like and in the example system shown in analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by DSP and input to transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the communication network via antenna . DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in DSP .

Network access requirements will also vary depending upon the type of network . In some networks network access is associated with a subscriber or user of mobile device . A mobile device may require a removable user identity module RUIM or a subscriber identity module SIM card in order to operate on a network. The SIM RUIM interface is normally similar to a card slot into which a SIM RUIM card can be inserted and ejected. The SIM RUIM card holds many key configurations and other information such as identification and subscriber related information.

Mobile device includes a processor which controls the overall operation of the device. Communication functions including at least data and voice communications are performed through communication subsystem . Processor also interacts with further device subsystems such as the display flash memory random access memory RAM auxiliary input output I O subsystems serial port one or more keyboards or keypads speaker microphone other communication subsystem such as a short range communications subsystem and any other device subsystems generally designated as . Serial port could include a USB port or other port known to those in the art.

Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as keyboard and display for example may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over a communication network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

Operating system software used by the processor can be stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may instead be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile memory such as RAM . Received communication signals may also be stored in RAM .

As shown flash memory can be segregated into different areas for both computer programs and program data storage and . These different storage types indicate each program can allocate a portion of flash memory for their own data storage requirements. Processor in addition to its operating system functions can enable execution of software applications on the mobile device. A predetermined set of applications which control basic operations including at least data and voice communication applications for example will normally be installed on mobile device during manufacturing. Other applications could be installed subsequently or dynamically.

A software application may be a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to the user of the mobile device such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. Naturally one or more memory stores would be available on the mobile device to facilitate storage of PIM data items. Such PIM application can have the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . In an embodiment the PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. Further applications may also be loaded onto the mobile device through the network an auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in the RAM or a non volatile store not shown for execution by the microprocessor . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both.

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the microprocessor which further processes the received signal for element attributes for output to the display or alternatively to an auxiliary I O device .

A user of mobile device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the keyboard which can be a complete alphanumeric keyboard or telephone type keypad in conjunction with the display and possibly an auxiliary I O device . Such composed items may then be transmitted over a communication network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications overall operation of mobile device is similar except that received signals would be output to a speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information for example.

Serial port in would normally be implemented in a personal digital assistant PDA type mobile device for which synchronization with a user s desktop computer not shown may be desirable but is an optional device component. Such a port would enable a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and would extend the capabilities of mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to thereby enable secure device communication. Serial port can further be used to connect the mobile device to a computer to act as a modem.

WiFi Communications Subsystem is used for WiFi Communications and can provide for communication with access point .

Other communications subsystem s such as a short range communications subsystem are further components that may provide for communication between mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem s may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

The embodiments described herein are examples of structures systems or methods having elements corresponding to elements of the techniques of the present application. The above written description may enable those skilled in the art to make and use embodiments having alternative elements that likewise correspond to the elements of the techniques of the present application. The intended scope of the techniques of the above application thus includes other structures systems or methods that do not differ from the techniques of the present application as described herein and further includes other structures systems or methods with insubstantial differences from the techniques of the present application as described herein.

