---

title: Security countermeasure management platform
abstract: A management platform that allows security and compliance users to view risks and vulnerabilities in their environment with the added context of what other mitigating security countermeasures are associated with that vulnerability and that are applicable and/or available within the overall security architecture. Additionally, the platform allows users to take one or more actions from controlling the operation of a security countermeasure for mitigation purposes to documenting the awareness of a security countermeasure that is in place.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08800045&OS=08800045&RS=08800045
owner: Achilles Guard, Inc.
number: 08800045
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120211
---
This disclosure relates generally to risk assessment and compliance management in an enterprise computing environment.

While the security and compliance world is fast maturing the promise of fully automated security solutions remains far out on the horizon. Even today with the creation of standards like Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language OVAL and Security Content Automation Protocol SCAP the vulnerability management process is a challenging one often involving manual efforts with less than perfect information on which to prioritize effort. This means the fundamental process of assessing risk and compliance against policies will not go away anytime soon.

In today s environment vulnerability management is often a separate isolated task within the security operations landscape. Vulnerability management tasks typically comprise scanning the computing environment or otherwise collecting asset risk information identifying vulnerabilities and then attempting to remediate discovered risk or documenting exceptions when risks are accepted or cannot be directly addressed via applying software patches or so called patching . Vulnerability assessment still largely revolves around this scan and patch paradigm although there are numerous operational and business obstacles that make it difficult to simply patch or otherwise directly mitigate every discovered issue. Indeed this process is expensive and time consuming and therefore often left incomplete which creates exposure for the enterprise.

A typical enterprise security infrastructure comprises tools and technologies at multiple OSI layers namely transport data application network and the like that at least theoretically combine to provide an overall level of protection for an enterprise. In practice however it is very difficult to drive a consistent complete risk assessment process spanning network application and web layers from pre production software development through to standard operating systems off the shelf software and network devices. This is because these tools operate in different worlds and involve differing mitigation strategies. Although some converged security solutions are emerging most enterprises have numerous security products deployed that address varying types of risks and threats operating at a specific layer throughout their defense in depth model. As a result most enterprises typically have layer specific data resulting in siloed processes and information. Moreover the individual s conducting vulnerability management do not always have seamless visibility and operational control of the multiple layers of security available that might already be addressing a discovered risk. Therefore in the absence of better information and processes the only course for protection is to patch the vulnerability. While this approach appears simple patching often is a complex operational process that is not easily carried out in large organizations. In addition patching a particular vulnerability often is not the best security option given the context of the business requirements and other operational constraints.

Security and operations functions are still in the process of converging. Those responsible for performing a remediation task and those in the security organization have information needs that differ. This causes challenges when trying to facilitate a security process across functional areas. It is also very difficult to compare an already complex and challenging risk assessment process with the existing security countermeasures that are in place so that the optimal mitigation strategy is deployed. These tasks must also be carried out under the umbrella of corporate security policy. This gap creates exposure duplication of effort non compliance and overall inefficiency and higher costs to secure the environment and comply with regulations.

Accordingly there remains a need in the art to provide a solution that identifies risks and intelligently maps the attributes of those risks to the most effective countermeasures. These techniques and methods should make enterprise wide intelligence immediately actionable to mitigate risk while at the same time protecting against evolving threat vectors within a computing environment.

This disclosure describes a security countermeasures management platform SCMP that allows security and compliance users to view risks and vulnerabilities in their environment with the added context of what other mitigating security countermeasures are associated with that vulnerability and that are applicable and or available within the overall security architecture. Additionally the platform allows users to take one or more actions from controlling the operation of a security countermeasure for mitigation purposes e.g. changing an Intrusion Prevention setting from permit notify to block or enabling disabled filters to simply documenting the awareness of a security countermeasure that is in place.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the invention. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or by modifying the invention as will be described.

 Vulnerability refers to a weakness which allows an attacker to reduce a system s information assurance. Typically vulnerability is a consequence of three elements a system susceptibility or flaw attacker access to the flaw and attacker capability to exploit the flaw. To exploit the vulnerability an attacker must have at least one applicable tool or technique that can connect to a system weakness.

 Risk data refers to findings extracted from various risk tools such as without limitation network vulnerability scanners web application scanners dynamic application security testing database scanners antivirus scanners software assurance scanners static application security testing anti malware solutions scanners of virtual environments or automated penetration testing tools.

 Countermeasure refers to a security solution designed to address a specific risk or set of risks to an enterprise. Typically a countermeasure is deployed at various levels of the seven layer OSI stack as part of layered security architecture. Examples of countermeasures include without limitation next generation firewall host based intrusion prevention data leakage protection encryption products identity and access management application shielding and gateway appliances.

 Cost typically refers to hard and soft costs required to deploy a particular countermeasure. In one embodiment cost is comprised of time spent identifying an issue and enacting the required configuration change within a countermeasure solution. Time may be a function of complexity or a relatively easy task that must be performed multiple times or a combination of both. It may also include opportunity cost of other projects that are not advanced as a result as well as the potential operational impact of deploying the countermeasure e.g. blocking important legitimate traffic or denying access to a business critical application 

 Effectiveness refers to the technical ability of a countermeasure to directly remediate a risk. Thus for example filtering a port on a firewall is only partially effective as many advanced persistent threats are masked inside of permitted traffic. But an IPS filter designed to block SQL injection attacks is very effective in stopping that malicious traffic associated with a SQL injection attack.

 Value with respect to a countermeasure refers to a weighted combination result of its cost to implement and the level of its effectiveness in reducing risk. If a countermeasure is easy and not costly to implement and if it mitigates a multilayer risk to critical assets e.g. malware that targets known software vulnerabilities in a key business application it is highly valued. If on the other hand the countermeasure is costly to implement and has little risk reduction e.g. a countermeasure that mitigates vulnerability on an internal machine with very limited access it is considered to have lower value.

The platform may be implemented in a software as a service SaaS or cloud based model or as a standalone product. More generally the product or service is provided using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions interfaces databases data structures and the like that together facilitate or provide the inventive functionality. In a typical implementation the service comprises a set of one or more computers. A representative machine is a network based server running commodity e.g. Pentium class hardware an operating system e.g. Linux Windows OS X or the like an application runtime environment e.g. Java .ASP and a set of applications or processes e.g. AJAX technologies Java applets or servlets linkable libraries native code or the like depending on platform that provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. An interface typically is web based. As described the product or service may be implemented in a standalone server or across a distributed set of machines. Typically a server connects to the publicly routable Internet an intranet a private network or any combination thereof depending on the desired implementation environment. The network may be wire line or wireless.

In general the platform is associated with a computing environment which itself includes systems subsystems devices applications databases and the like and preferably comprises a number of components. A user interface typically web based provides the interface for a user to operate one or more aspects of the platform from scanning the network to finding vulnerabilities to selecting countermeasures s and providing reports. A core component is a taxonomy module having a countermeasure knowledge base CMKB which is a database for mapping exposures vulnerabilities to one or more associated or corresponding countermeasures that could address the exposure i.e. countermeasure intelligence taxonomy by grouping exposures to impact categories or classes that correspond to applicable countermeasures. For example a vulnerability impacts that indicates a server logging failure would correspond to the countermeasure of file integrity monitoring and host intrusion prevention as another security countermeasure for addressing the same issue. The platform preferably also includes a countermeasure interoperability application programming interface API for collection of countermeasure data from different devices as well as for interacting with these devices e.g. to enact a specific mitigating action. Preferably the API also interfaces with one or more third party or native scanners to collect exposure information. As noted above preferably the platform interface outputs displays the countermeasure options in the particular computing environment based on what is applicable but not discovered or available in the network. A countermeasure policy engine allows the user to deploy one or more countermeasure processes based on prescribed policies that may include for example control of a countermeasure for direct mitigation purposes documentation of existing countermeasures for compliance purposes and the like. In general the platform may be configured to act on a vulnerability exposure by remediating the issue by documenting an existing compensating countermeasure by documenting risk exceptions or the like.

As will be seen by scanning or collecting of vulnerability exposures the platform provides actionable results options for the user to select the existing countermeasures for security protection and visibility as well as compliance auditing purposes. In use the taxonomy module with its CMKB shows one or more corresponding countermeasures for an exposure. Then via a policy module the user may apply a process either to select which countermeasure device IPS UTM or the lie is appropriate to mitigate the exposure i.e. to control it or if not appropriate or possible then to document what other means are existing in the network architecture that are protecting for the exposure i.e. awareness . Preferably the platform provides visibility to countermeasures that are applicable and available to discovered risks as well applicable countermeasures that are not currently available in the network the latter provides the user with valuable information namely potential tools or devices to improve the security posture of the computing environment. Once a countermeasure is applied against an exposure the decision to do so may be documented for compliance and audit purposes.

Preferably the platform provides one or more countermeasure effectiveness ratings and these ratings provide a quantitative method to compare the cost and effectiveness of applying a particular countermeasure to the reduction in risk that results. The platform preferably also provides one or more different types of reports to show risk reduction and effectiveness as well as the security posture of the computing environment.

The ACI engine provides the basic functionality of implementing the risk to countermeasure taxonomy that identifies available and or desired if unavailable countermeasures. The ACI engine provides an enhanced level of security information. Preferably the engine leverages standards such as CVE CVSS CWE and CAPEC and combines risk perspectives from different layers of the computing stack unifying them into a combined threat view to express impact attributes like injection vectors methods of attack and likelihood. From this unified view the platform knowledge base implements a recommendation taxonomy that maps the connections between these risk and threat attributes to the most effective set of applicable countermeasure s for mitigating them. It is the information center that enables the ACI engine to converge a unified view of risks and threats with a unified layered defense capability. The engine can uncover hidden patterns in data modeling possible outcomes and answering questions that are not surfaced by prior art techniques.

Through use of the various application programming interfaces the SCMP is an extensible platform for receiving data and orchestrating actions across multiple disparate risk input sources and countermeasure solutions. The platform is seamlessly integrated into existing software hardware or web based solutions.

The applicable countermeasures found include several that are identified. The applicable countermeasures not found include several that are might be used but are not present or available in the computing environment. The relative effectiveness and cost data are also displayed.

In this manner a countermeasure presentation is provided to the user that presents a listing of applicable and available countermeasures for remediation of an identified vulnerability. The user can view and compare the cost and effectiveness rankings and then determine a best course of action in the event additional action is required.

According to another aspect the platform also is adapted to receive additional data defining a policy based countermeasure workflow associated with a particular countermeasure of the one or more discovered countermeasures to attempt to address the particular vulnerability. This is the set policy operation in . In addition to being defined the policy based countermeasure workflow also may be implemented to attempt to address the particular vulnerability using the particular countermeasure. Typically the policy based countermeasure workflow provides for one of control of the particular countermeasure for mitigation of the vulnerability risk documentation of the particular countermeasure for awareness purposes and documentation of the particular countermeasure for configuration compliance audit and reporting purposes.

The countermeasure knowledge base may be configured in any manner to associate risk data to associated or corresponding countermeasures that can address an exposure. Although not meant to be limiting preferably the knowledge base is configured such exposures are grouped to impact categories or classes that correspond to applicable countermeasures in the form of the taxonomy . For example a vulnerability impact that indicates a server logging feature may correspond to the countermeasure of file integrity monitoring and host intrusion prevention as other security countermeasures for addressing the same issue. Of course this is merely representative of the taxonomic approach. As already noted preferably the platform provides the capability of interacting with countermeasure devices to enact a specific mitigating action i.e. a countermeasure control . Using the policy engine the user can define and deploy a policy based countermeasure workflow to address risk the applicable and available countermeasures in the manner previously described.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the platform provides significant advantages. The platform unifies risk elements articulates the attributes of those risks and it intelligently maps the risks to the most effective countermeasures to take action. In this manner the techniques herein thus combine comprehensive risk intelligence with active mitigation. The approach transforms multiple sources of risk data in a physical and virtual environment into a unified insight across vulnerabilities software weaknesses and malware. The platform exposes to the user what security tools best address a given set of risks based on threat impact categories using a risk to countermeasure taxonomy for mapping exposures to corresponding countermeasures. The approach enables the user to dynamically tune and configure an enterprise s security architecture on a general threat landscape and on an enterprise s unique risk profile.

The platform enhances security awareness and intelligence to achieve a more advanced mitigation construct beyond simply patching a discovered vulnerability. It provides a more agile decision framework to enable users to prioritize resources on the most critical security issues in the computing environment in less time and with less effort as compared to prior art approaches. The platform eliminates duplication of efforts that exist when security tools are siloed with little shared information for the operator s of the tools. The active countermeasures intelligence ACI functionality also allows operators to clearly document their approach to mitigating risks across the entire security architecture and not just whether a vulnerability is patched when the option of patching or changing a configuration is not operationally possible or beneficial. This fulfills a key pain point in audit and compliance for documenting exceptions. It also lowers operation costs and frees up valuable resources with the automation of security policies. The platform recommends a best defensive strategy based on a more comprehensive risk assessment. Preferably it prioritizes resources on the most critical issues quickly and efficiently with a more agile mitigation decision framework.

The platform enables a user to understood and address a much higher level normalized view of risk across an entire information stack and to immediately initiate mitigation on the appropriate countermeasure solution s when faced with a exposure thread.

By combining multiple layers of risk into a unified threat profile the user can better understand and address risks across the physical and virtual enterprise. The approach also enables incorporation of advanced remediation intelligence that enables organizations to automate tasks confidently and within the context of security policy. The process enables the enterprise to manage vulnerabilities and to sustain compliance while streamlining processes and reducing costs.

The platform allows the user to take action from controlling the operation of a security countermeasure for mitigation to simply documenting countermeasures that are in effect. The platform enables intelligent process orchestration using policy based workflow from a range of manual to quasi automated to fully automated countermeasure tasks.

As previously described preferably the security countermeasure management platform is implemented as a managed service offering although this is not a limitation. In such instance a business entity customer of the service has a machine such as a workstation notebook computer tablet computer or mobile computing device. Typically a business entity user accesses the service provider architecture by opening a web browser or web application on the machine to a URL associated with a service provider domain. Access may also be through an automated process such as via a Web services application programming interface API . Where a web browser is used the client authenticates to the managed service in the usual manner e.g. by entry of a username and password. The connection between the business entity machine and the service provider infrastructure may be encrypted or otherwise secure e.g. via SSL or the like. Although connectivity via the publicly routed Internet is typical the business entity may connect to the service provider infrastructure over any local area wide area wireless wired private or other dedicated network. The service provider architecture upon which the management platform operates typically comprises an IP switch for traffic management a set of one or more web server machines to export a front end typically a set of web pages a set of one more application server machines to provide the above identified functionality a database management system to manage the knowledge base and a set of one or more specialized server machines for administration management billing and other management related functions and operations. A representative web server machine comprises commodity hardware e.g. Intel based an operating system such as Linux and a web server such as Apache 2.x. A representative application server machine comprises commodity hardware Linux and an application server such as WebLogic 9.2 or later . The database management system may be implemented as an Oracle or equivalent database management package running on Linux. The SCMP infrastructure also may include a name service FTP servers load balancing appliances other switches and the like. Each machine typically comprises sufficient disk and memory as well as input and output devices. The software environment on each machine includes a Java virtual machine JVM if control programs are written in Java. Of course the particular hardware and software implementation details described herein are merely for illustrative purposes are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. In a representative embodiment a typical machine in the service infrastructure is a processor based server running Linux. There are typically a set of such servers operating at a given location e.g. an Internet data center .

In the alternative the SCMP is implemented as a standalone product or system comprising machines devices programs processes databases data structures and the like in association with or as an adjunct to other computing resources in an environment. The solution may be implemented in whole or in part as an appliance based offering as a set of dedicated libraries together with an SDK as dedicated software or the like.

The disclosed subject matter may be implemented within or in association with a vulnerability management system of the type described in commonly owned U.S. Publication No. 2010 0242114 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Familiarity with these known techniques is presumed.

