---

title: Facilities management
abstract: A system for facilities management can include a tag device having a transceiver and a facilities management process. The facilities management process can include an application service for receiving the location of the tag device from the transceiver, at least one geographical work zone, and a tracking module configured for recording a time period the tag device is within each geographical work zone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280902&OS=09280902&RS=09280902
owner: DSG TAG Systems, Inc.
number: 09280902
owner_city: Surrey
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120124
---
This application is a continuation in part and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 082 886 filed on Apr. 8 2011 which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 082 886 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 322 715 filed on Apr. 9 2010 which is also incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

Operation and maintenance of a golf course can involve a significant investment of capital and manpower. Maximizing the utility of a course calls for maintaining greens fairways putting ranges driving ranges and other playing areas in a particular condition requiring attention to the condition of grasses and other greenery. In addition the large size of typical courses calls for wide variety of maintenance vehicles and course personnel to manage the golf course facility.

The acquisition and maintenance of golf carts and other course vehicles presents a significant investment in itself. However the use of these vehicles particularly by patrons can raise further concerns. Unregulated operation by novice or reckless drivers can present risks to the drivers themselves as well as to the vehicles other patrons and the course landscape. These problems can be addressed by monitoring and managing access to and use of course vehicles. As golf course operations multiply in size and number of facilities management of larger vehicular fleets can present continuing challenges to architecture and implementation of such systems.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In describing and claiming the present invention the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set forth below.

It is to be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

Methods and systems are set forth herein for managing mobile assets and tracking personnel with equipment within a geographic area for facilities management. Particular embodiments set forth methods and systems for monitoring and managing vehicular assets based on information about location and movement of such assets within a geographic area. The vehicle assets e.g. vehicles or facilities vehicles as used herein can include vehicles on wheels or equipment that can be carried by personnel such as power equipment like a hand held trimmer. In an aspect the information can be used to track the time the assets are within a specified geographical area such as a work zone or idle non work periods outside the specified geographical area. The time period can be determined by recording an entry time and an entry date when the vehicle with a tag device used to determine the vehicle s location enters the geographical work zone and recording an exit time and an exit date when the vehicle exits the geographical work zone. When a vehicle enters a geographical home zone the system can cease recording the time period for the geographical work zone or work activity. In another aspect personnel can be associated with the vehicle assets for specified time period such as a day or shift. In another aspect personnel not associated with a vehicle or piece of equipment with a device tag can carry a tag device with similar or basic functionality as the device tag associated with the vehicle. The information generated by the device tag can be used to generate a facilities management value. For example the information can be used to track labor costs or time worked by personnel activity or work efficiency fuel usage or power usage by equipment average time or cost to maintain the geographical work zone and or last time the geographical work zone was maintained and the type of maintenance performed.

It should be understood that the embodiments discussed herein are contemplated for use with any type of mobile asset and particularly any type of vehicle that can be made to move about in the area of interest including automobiles and other conveyances both powered and unpowered such as powered and unpowered vehicles mobile maintenance or grounds keeping machines and the like. For purposes of illustrating the various aspects of the methods and systems the discussion below will be primarily directed to describing exemplary embodiments directed to monitoring and managing vehicles in and around a golf course. It should be noted however that the elements and principles discussed herein are applicable to management applications of facilities outside the field of golf course management. For example references to carts and vehicles in the following discussion should be understood as generally applicable to vehicular assets that can be operated in and around golf courses such as golf carts automobiles riding mowers scooters motorcycles all terrain vehicles snowmobiles and the like. Similarly reference to a golf course can generally also be applied to any geographic area within which monitoring and management of vehicular assets and work flows may be desirable. The methods and systems described can be used in any facility where work performed can be defined by time spent in distinct geographically areas such as a golf course.

It is also noted that discussion of methods and systems herein can be interchangeable with respect to specific embodiments. In other words specific discussion of a method herein is equally applicable to embodiments as they relate to the system and vice versa.

A system for facilities management can comprise a plurality of vehicles where one or more of the vehicles are equipped with a tag device. The tag device can include or be functionally connected to elements that collect and provide information about the location and movement of the vehicle. In a particular embodiment the tag device can include or at least is functionally connected to a global positioning system GPS receiver a motion sensor or an inertial measurement unit IMU . The IMU can be used to detect changes in motion changes acceleration or changes in orientation of the vehicle in a three dimensional 3D coordinate system. In another embodiment the tag device or other monitoring device can be coupled to the instrumentation panel or sensors of the vehicle to provide information about the vehicle such as a battery usage a battery voltage a fuel level a running engine indication and similar types of status and diagnosis information that can be transmitted to a facilities management data system and or stored in a server or database. The tag device can further include one or more elements having transceiver functionality so as to provide for communication of information to and from the vehicle. The transceiver can include a transmitter receiver and at least one antenna. Communication can be any type of communication network suited for transmitting data across the distances included in the area particularly wireless LAN and mobile device networks using standards such as the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi. In particular the network can be configured so that each tag device can communicate with a server.

In an embodiment the tag device can include an internal battery to supply its power needs. In a specific embodiment the tag device is capable of drawing upon its internal battery and on an external power source such as a vehicle battery. In order to maximize the duty cycle of the internal battery while minimizing the impact on a vehicle battery the system can assess when it is appropriate for the tag device to draw power from the vehicle battery. For example it may be more suitable to draw on the vehicle battery when said battery is well charged or is itself connected to an external power source and less suitable in other situations e.g. low charge or during heavy use . In an aspect of the embodiment the system can utilize various heuristics to determine when to draw upon the vehicle battery. Such heuristics can include but are not limited to time motion location as well as vehicle battery voltage and voltage trends.

In another example the tag device or transceiver can be coupled to an input device and or an output device on or near the vehicle where personnel associated with the vehicle can log information relative to geographical zone or location and or a specified time. In another example personnel associated with the vehicle can communicate with personnel at another location such a central control station or another vehicle. The input device can include a mouse keyboard touch screen microphone camera card reader scanner or similar device. The microphone can be used with a voice recognition application to convert verbal messages into text. The output device can include a display touch screen speaker or similar device. The speaker can be used with a text conversion application to convert text into verbal messages. In an example the output device can display the location of the vehicle on map. In another example various locations on the map can be tagged with instructions and or a prioritized list of scheduled work assignments.

In a particular embodiment the various functionalities e.g. GPS motion sensing receiving transmitting are integrated into the tag device to form a single package. However embodiments in which one or more functionalities are provided by devices that are external to the tag device are also contemplated by the description herein.

In accordance with the present embodiment communication between tag devices and a server facilitates the storage and handling of vehicle data for tracking monitoring and management of the vehicles by personnel managers or other user s . Embodied on the server can be one or more modules such as a tracking module comprising computer executable code configured for collecting analyzing manipulating and presenting data received from the tag devices and other vehicle monitoring systems. These modules can include databases map data user interfaces communications server and or client modules and others embodied on the server as data structures and code. The computer executable code can integrate with existing computer aided design CAD programs aerial photographs or map data such as Google Earth to generate specified geographical areas such as geographical work zones and geographical home zones where the map data is associated with a coordinate system a map representation based on geographic information system GIS data and or GPS coordinates.

In a particular embodiment data related to the geographical area can be embodied on the server. In one aspect the geographical area data can include a coordinate system or a map representation based on GIS data. In an additional aspect the area data can include designations of various types of zones within and around the course area or facility and the square footage or acreage data of the area. The zones can be designated according to a crew or organizational division providing the maintenance or work manager responsible for area type of work terrain features and improvements function and the like. For example a golf course can include without limitation pedestrian paths cart paths tee areas fairways greens rough fringe bunkers water hazards and driving ranges which require different types of management and maintenance. Each of these features can constitute different zones or be grouped into zones sub zones or other category e.g. work groups . In a particular aspect code is embodied on the server by which zones can be added deleted and modified. In another example the golf course or a facility can include a general category for the work zones where the geographical area is to be maintained and a general category for the home zones where equipment is stored maintained or repaired. Vehicle time outside the work zone or the home zone may be categorized as a non work time non productive time or travel time.

The server can further hold one or more databases populated with information sent by tag devices and or elements associated therewith. In a particular aspect databases of location information time information personnel information vehicle and equipment information and consumables e.g. materials and fuel information can be stored on the server. For example an onboard GPS receiver can periodically acquire the vehicle s GPS position from a satellite network either arbitrarily or spontaneously or at a determined sampling interval. In another configuration the GPS receiver can periodically acquire the vehicle s GPS position when the vehicle is moving based on data from a motion sensor or IMU and cease sampling GPS data when the vehicle is idling or relatively still. In an example the tag device can send each position data point to the server for storage. A database can collect and hold a number of location points for each vehicle together with the time at which the position was received. The system can provide real time tracking of each vehicle. These location points can be used to construct a history of the vehicle s location over time i.e. a location trail . The dimensions of the database can be based on the GPS sampling interval and the amount of accessible monitoring time desired. In another example the database can periodically e.g. daily purge the database of sampled vehicle location points and retain information relative to the vehicle entering and exiting each geographical zone and other facility management data. In another configuration the database can use a first in first out FIFO type queue in the database to cycle through stored sampled vehicle location points. In another configuration the database may store the vehicle location point and time when the vehicle enters or exits each geographical zone. In a specific embodiment the location information the time information the course map and or the geographical zones can then be viewed together to show where the vehicle s current and previous locations lie relative to the mapped area and any zones therein. The vehicle s current position can be represented by an icon on the mapped area. The icon may change appearance when the vehicle enters a zone or an alert is triggered. The icon may include a timer indicating the time the vehicle is within the zone such as a work zone. The timer can include a cumulative time within the zone over a periodic time frame e.g. a shift or day or a time within zone each time the vehicle enters the zone. The display associated with server such as at a central control station and the display associated with the vehicle display can display different types of information. The information displayed may vary based on the status of the personnel viewing the data where the information displayed to a manager may include more information and may vary from a worker. In a configuration the user interface for the display associated with server and or vehicle display can allow access to the facilities management system and or the vehicle with a user name and password or a personnel identification card which can be read by a card reader associated with the server user interface or the vehicle user interface.

The facilities management system or server can be configured to run the facilities management process which can include an application service and a scheduling module. The application service can receive a location of the tag device from the transceiver. The scheduling module can include a calendar to periodically e.g. hourly daily weekly monthly seasonally or yearly schedule work activities for specified vehicles equipment and or personnel. The scheduling module can be used to forecast time equipment materials and supplies e.g. fuel and personnel for the work activities in the facilities management system. In an example the scheduling module can compare periodic activity of the vehicle with prior periodic activity such as an average time period for an activity or a prior time period for an activity of the vehicle using information provided by the tracking module. The tracking of periodic activity can be used to monitor efficiency for various activities vehicles equipment work zones and or personnel.

In another aspect motion information and sensor data can also be stored on the server. The use of the motion sensor and or IMU can reduce the sampling rate for the GPS receiver. For example an onboard motion sensor can detect episodic or sustained motions undergone by the vehicle and the tag device can transmit this information to the server. In a specific aspect the motion information can include physical dimensions of the motion e.g. the relative direction of motion and magnitude of velocity and or acceleration. In another aspect time stamping can be utilized so that temporal information can be included such as the time at which the motion commences and ceases and the duration of motion.

The server can further have a vehicle management process embodied thereon as machine executable code where said process includes a tracking module configured for processing information received from tag devices to provide for management of vehicles equipment and other assets in and around the facility. In a particular embodiment vehicles are equipped with a tag device and include a GPS device a motion sensor or IMU and other vehicle sensors. The GPS receiver periodically determines the position of the vehicle while the motion sensor monitors the presence or absence of motion by the vehicle. The other vehicle sensors can monitor other vehicle conditions such as an engine running indicator fuel level or battery voltage. The tag device can send GPS location motion data and other sensor data to the server.

In an example the server can further have a vehicle management process embodied thereon as machine executable code where said process includes a tracking module configured for processing information received from tag devices to provide for management of golf carts and other assets in and around a golf course. In a particular embodiment vehicles are equipped with a tag device and include both a GPS device and a motion sensor. The GPS receiver periodically determines the position of the vehicle while the motion sensor monitors the presence or absence of motion by the vehicle. The tag device sends both GPS location and motion data to the server.

The tracking module can comprise a procedure that compares location data to course maps to and or zones and ascertain the vehicle s location s or location trail on the course. In one aspect the tracking module can include databases of information from tag devices and data structures representing designated zones. The procedure can further determine a vehicle s location relative to any designated zones associated with the course. In a particular aspect the procedure can be configured to display location information with geographic zones via a graphic user interface an example of which is shown in . The graphic user interface can operate on a computer situated to be accessible to golf course personnel such as in a clubhouse maintenance facility or security facility.

In an additional aspect map images may be included with zones in the map representation to facilitate recognition of terrain and features. The map image can be any type that shows desired features of the geographical area including but not limited to satellite images topographic maps computer aided drawings hand drawings aerial photographs and the like.

A plurality of vehicles can also be viewed in the graphic user interface and each vehicle can be given a label or other designation which can be signified by text symbols or icons. This aspect is illustrated in which shows a graphic user interface displaying a golf course map representation in which the current locations of five vehicles golf carts through and a course marshal s cart are shown along with their location trails . In one aspect location trails can be coded e.g. by color or pattern to aid in distinguishing between the history of different individual vehicles.

Designated zones and other features can further be overlaid on the map. An example of this is shown in which includes an outer course boundary designation bold dashed line and two limited access zones in the lower right corner. The user interface can be configured to be used for setting and adjusting attributes of particular vehicles and zones.

The graphic user interface can further include an information display that provides a user with information about vehicles such as an alphanumeric representation of vehicle location vehicle operational status or alerts generated for vehicles.

A number of factors can influence the accuracy and precision of GPS measurements thereby affecting their reliability in ascertaining vehicle location. For example location information sent by a stationary GPS device can exhibit drift over time i.e. sample to sample variation in location that are not due to any actual change in location. In accordance with an embodiment the vehicle management system can utilize GPS data quality measurements to assess the reliability of location information. In a particular embodiment the system can determine the number of satellites horizontal dilution of precision and estimated horizontal precision error for a set of coordinates. The reliability of coordinates is then based on whether the quality measurements meet specified criteria. In a particular aspect the coordinates can be retained or discarded based on this validation process. In another aspect the quality measurements are used to validate further events based on the coordinates such as zone violations and alerts. For example vehicle location coordinates may be collected that indicate that a vehicle is just within a particular zone but the quality measurements indicate a certain probability that the actual location could be outside the zone. In such a case the coordinates may be deemed insufficiently reliable to trigger an alert without additional validation.

In accordance with the embodiment motion data can be used to validate the location data so as to provide more reliable trails and other location information. For example a change in location occurring without a concurrent indication of motion can be viewed as possibly due to drift. The location change can then be treated accordingly by the tracking module. Possible actions with regard to such data can include deleting the information from the database leaving the information in place but flagging it and or assigning a code or grade to the information to indicate a level of reliability. Similarly motion conditioned location information can be taken into account in process for constructing location trails. Trails can be constructed or edited to include only a limited number of questionable location points or none at all. In another aspect trails themselves can be graded to reflect the number or proportion of questionable location points they contain.

In one embodiment more than one level of motion information can be utilized in tracking vehicles. In one aspect a motion sensor on the vehicle can be configured to detect undifferentiated simple motion i.e. any type of movement undergone by the vehicle such as occurring from driving impact tilting rolling etc. Such motion may or may not be associated with an actual change in location of the vehicle. However simple motion may warrant heightened attention to the vehicle. Accordingly detection of simple motion can be used to trigger more frequent collection of location information. In another aspect of the embodiment a motion sensor can be configured to detect particular types of motion such as motion that is indicative of operation that results in a change in location e.g. an operator driving the cart . More specifically the motion sensor can detect the direction of movement. An accelerometer is one nonlimiting example of such a sensor. This type of motion qualified motion is more relevant to issues such as theft or otherwise unauthorized operation of the vehicle and can be used to trigger appropriate alerts and or control actions. In addition the directional information in qualified motion can be used to validate a location trail. For example a set of coordinates provided by the GPS receiver may indicate a false direction of motion e.g. sideways . The qualified motion information can be used to validate or invalidate this location information and in the latter case can trigger flagging or deletion of a false trail.

The location information motion information tracking process and other elements discussed can facilitate not just monitoring of vehicles and other assets but also direct or indirect management of such assets. In a particular example a vehicle can be equipped with one or more vehicle controller devices that when engaged limit the responses of the vehicle to input from its driver. This can involve limiting vehicle speed limiting or preventing either forward or backward motion and turning off the vehicle s motor. An example of one such controller device is a relay that when powered disconnects the vehicle s ignition switch.

In a particular aspect the vehicle controller device is configured to be engaged remotely either directly or through the tag device. By combining this functionality with those described above in connection with the tracking functionality it is possible to limit or prevent vehicle operation within designated physical or temporal zones. For example the controller device can be engaged to render a vehicle inoperable when someone attempts to drive it into a prohibited location e.g. a bunker or to operate the vehicle after business hours.

In a particular embodiment the monitoring process embodied on the server includes a control module. The control module can be configured to initiate a signal that engages a vehicle controller device on a vehicle. In a particular aspect the control module can recognize an alert generated by certain activity such as the vehicle entering a zone designated as off limits to that vehicle or its driver. Such an alert can be generated through an interaction between the control module and the tracking process. For example when the tracking module acquires a location for a vehicle that coincides with a map zone designated as off limits e.g. a parking lot an alert can be generated or triggered by the tracking module or by the control module. This alert can in turn trigger one or more vehicle control actions including causing the control module to remotely engage a vehicle controller device on the vehicle that acts to prevent operation of the vehicle that would cause further encroachment of the prohibited zone. An example of such an action can involve shutting off the vehicle s motor and disconnecting the ignition to prevent the operator from restarting the vehicle. Alternatively the vehicle controller device can disengage the vehicle s forward drive so that the vehicle can only be backed out of the prohibited zone.

It is contemplated that effective management of vehicles can be accomplished using varying levels of vehicle control where both physical control and virtual control of vehicles are employed in course management. This is particularly relevant where relays solenoids and other devices requiring power are used as controller devices for vehicles. Under such an approach some alerts may call for sustained engagement of controller devices. One example is a situation in which a vehicle is driven onto the bank of a stream or other steep terrain where there is a danger that further operation would result in damage to the vehicle or injury to the driver. Another example is when an operator drives a vehicle off a course grounds that is surrounded by high pedestrian traffic creating an ongoing risk that the vehicle might be stolen. Alternatively for activity that does not create an ongoing concern e.g. slight or accidental movement of the vehicle sustained engagement of vehicle controller devices may be unnecessary. In such cases it can be more efficient to refrain from long term engagement when a shorter engagement will suffice. Accordingly in one aspect a vehicle control action can be performed for an amount of time that less than the duration of the triggering alert. More specifically a control device e.g. a trigger lock can be engaged upon generation of an alert but can then shut off or enter a standby mode before the alert ends. However the control device can be re engaged by the occurrence of a triggering event during the duration of the alert e.g. vehicle motion or location change and remain engaged for a certain time or until the alert is ended.

In an embodiment the tag device can include an internal battery to supply its power needs. In a specific embodiment the tag device is capable of drawing upon its internal battery and on an external power source such as a vehicle battery. In order to maximize the duty cycle of the internal battery while minimizing the impact on a vehicle battery the system can assess when it is appropriate for the tag device to draw power from the vehicle battery. For example it may be more suitable to draw on the vehicle battery when said battery is well charged or is itself connected to an external power source and less suitable in other situations e.g. low charge or during heavy use . In an aspect of the embodiment the system can utilize various heuristics to determine when to draw upon the vehicle battery. Such heuristics can include but are not limited to time motion location as well as vehicle battery voltage and voltage trends.

In a particular aspect the system can include a plurality of control schemes that in turn can each correspond to one of a plurality of alert levels. As discussed above location information and motion information can be used to more effectively ascertain what is happening to each vehicle. This can in turn facilitate the assignment of alert levels where each alert level is suited to the level of safety or security concern associated with particular types of occurrences. Each alert level can then elicit one or more actions deemed appropriate for the level of concern raised.

The number and types of alert levels as well as the actions they elicit can be preset in the processes embodied on the server or alternatively they can be set and adjusted by course personnel or other user. The actions can include an alert message provided to the user an alert message provided to the vehicle operator or both. In one aspect the message may be a visual message such as provided via a graphical user interface an email a text message and the like. For example referring again to visible alert messages can indicate violation of particular zones or features. As illustrated in Cart has crossed the outer course boundary Geofence while Cart and Marshal have entered restricted zones . More specifically at the time the display is generated Marshal remains in a restricted zone while Cart has encroached a restricted zone at one point in its location history. Different colors fonts icons and other indicia can be used to indicate different alert levels. In another aspect auditory alerts can be used such as a horn siren beep or other sound signal or a voice message delivered to a speaker telephone or radio.

Other actions can include vehicle control actions such as activation of controller devices onboard the vehicle as described above so as to limit or lock the vehicle from further proscribed operation. This is illustrated in the user display shown in where the icon for Cart includes a padlock symbol to indicate that its operation is restricted due to a zone violation here entering an automobile parking lot .

One example of a hierarchy of alerts and actions in accordance with this embodiment can be based on the type of movement undergone by the vehicle as ascertained from location information and motion information. A purely exemplary set of alerts governing controller activation is shown in Table 1 though it should be appreciated that other actions such as alert messages could be governed by the same alerts or a different set.

In another aspect alerts can be graded based on the location of the vehicle relative to designated zones as exemplified in Table 2 for use of vehicle controller devices combined with alert messages 

In another aspect alerts and corresponding actions can be conditioned on the time of day at which the activity occurs. For example one set of alerts can be used for managing vehicles during business hours while a different set is used for after hours management. Taking the example further after hours alerts can be set to trigger more prohibitive actions and for longer durations than are used during business hours.

An example of a system for monitoring and managing vehicles in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in . An on board tag device receives location information from a GPS satellite network and detects vehicle motion and transmits this information via cellular network and internet to a computer system such as a server . Such a system can comprise machine readable code for a vehicle management process embodied on the server wherein the vehicle management process comprises an application service configured for receiving information from on vehicle tag devices and includes subprocesses directed to data transport protocol system operations as well as a model to provide object persistence. These elements are shown here to illustrate the nature of such a service but are not exhaustive of elements that can be included in accordance with the level of knowledge in the art.

The process further includes a tracking module and a control module . The tracking module is configured to insert location information into a database . For example the location information can be used to provide a series of vehicle positions. In one aspect motion related information can be used to condition or verify location information to yield the series of positions. The database can also include map related information such as the zones designated in the area to be managed. Vehicle positions are compared to one or more zones to test for hits i.e. coincidences of vehicle location with zone coordinates. Hits are then checked against the settings for the zones to determine whether the hit is a violation of zone restrictions.

The tracking module then causes the control module to generate one or more alerts and control actions based on these analyses. The control module is configured to generate actions that can be used to manage operation of the vehicles on the course including delivery of alert messages and activation of on vehicle controller devices that limit or prevent certain vehicle operations. In a particular aspect the control module is configured to generate different actions in response to an alert level.

The functionalities of the system particularly tracking vehicle movement relative to designated zones ascertaining the level of concern raised by particular movements and locations and assigning a management action deemed appropriate to that activity each reside primarily on the control server and particularly in the vehicle management process. One feature of this arrangement is that the system does not require particular proprietary on vehicle devices. That is it is possible to implement the system using dumb on vehicle devices motion sensors GPS devices transmitters etc. Such devices are readily obtainable from many market sources so that vehicles can be equipped with whatever device is most available or most inexpensive as needed. Furthermore the system can be implemented using an assortment of models of each device type as long as the model is suitable for its basic function. Therefore more vehicles and more devices can be added to the system without being concerned with exactly matching the models already in use. As a consequence the system is highly scalable.

Another feature can be that the system is readily customized to a particular course and the needs or preferences of course managers. That is zone configuration zone properties alert levels control actions and other attributes can be set and modified at the server level. As such modifications to the system need not require modifying the on board devices of each vehicle. This facilitates changing the system to reflect new course policies or even new terrain in the event that the course is reconfigured. In addition the system is portable i.e. the process and vehicles can be transferred to another course and implemented at that course by updating the course map.

In another particular embodiment some functionalities of the server based process can also be provided in the on vehicle devices so that those functionalities can remain operational in the event that network communication is disrupted.

As the number of vehicles to be managed increases synchronous real time processing of all incoming tag position data can increase processing power requirements. In some cases this requirement may become expensive or even prohibitive. In an embodiment the vehicle management process is configured to monitor vehicles asynchronously in such a way as to yield substantially real time results. In a specific embodiment the general steps of position detection checking for hits and violations generating alerts and causing control actions as discussed above are not all repeated at each instance of location acquisition. That is once a new position is added to the database the system need not immediately perform zone hit tests. Instead zone hit testing and violation checks may be run at particular intervals e.g. every few seconds and operate on batches of positions rather than individual positions. Likewise alert generation and control actions can be similarly decoupled where alerts generated within a set interval are processed as a batch. The intervals batch size limits and other parameters can be adjusted manually or automatically to suit different levels of concern based on considerations such as danger associated with a type of violation time of day night operator class and the like.

In another aspect further scalability is provided through multiplication and offloading of process components. That is any of zone hit testing violation checks alert generation and vehicle controller activation can be offloaded to servers other than the server receiving tag information. Therefore large scale management architectures can be accommodated without requiring prohibitive increases in computing power. For example a large golf complex or even multiple courses can be monitored and managed using a server cluster.

An example embodiment of a process illustrating these principles is shown in the chart of where the dotted borders signify separate process components. For example tasks for populating the database tasks for zone testing of the database and tasks for alert generation and vehicle controller activation can be allocated and replicated among separate process components . These components are isolated from each other and only share the database information in common. As such each of the components or combinations thereof can be handled on separate machines in a network or at separate locations and further can each be replicated as indicated by the scale of the system.

In another example the tracking module can comprise a procedure that compares location data to course maps to and or zones and ascertain the vehicle s location s or location trail in the facility. The location trail or the pattern of vehicle s motion can be used to generate efficiency models. For example the fairways of a golf course can be mowed in a variety of patterns. Some patterns or configurations may use less time and fuel than other patterns which can be tracked and monitored using the tracking module. In one aspect the tracking module can include databases of information from tag devices and data structures representing designated zones. The procedure can further determine a vehicle s location relative to any designated zones associated with the facility. In a particular aspect the procedure can be configured to designate geographic zones such as work zones A H and a home zone and display location information for vehicles A B within geographic zones via a graphic user interface an example of which is shown in . The graphic user interface can operate on a computer situated to be accessible to personnel such as in a central control station clubhouse maintenance facility or security facility.

As illustrated in each zone can be setup with markers to delineate the boundaries of the zones. A dialog box such as a zone properties dialog box may be used to setup the properties of the zone or other features of the system like vehicle properties. The dialog box can include a location and area and can set an alert when vehicles enter or exit the zone. The zone properties can apply to different management activities or features of the facility like fairways or greens. The zone properties can track specified types of vehicles equipment personnel or patrons in the zone. In another example the zone properties can provide different priorities for alerts for vehicles entering and exiting a zone such as a home zone. The alerts can include an alarm or pop up window in the graphical user interface or an email or text that can be sent to security or a manager which could apply to vehicle activity after work hours.

In an additional aspect map images may be included with zones in the map representation to facilitate recognition of terrain and features. The map image can be any type that shows desired features of the geographical area including but not limited to satellite images topographic maps computer aided drawings hand drawings aerial photographs and the like.

A plurality of vehicles such a mower A or a cart B can also be viewed in the graphic user interface and each vehicle can be given a label or other designation which can be signified by text symbols or icons. In one aspect zones and vehicle icons can be coded e.g. by color or pattern to aid in distinguishing between different type of zones and vehicles. The vehicle icon zone type of vehicle can be selected to provide additional information on the vehicles. The graphic user interface or a report can further include an information display that provides a user with information about the vehicle such as a vehicle s label a vehicle type or category a vehicle s work group or operator a vehicle s start time and or end time in a particular zone or each zone a vehicle s distance traveled in the zone a vehicles moving time and or idle time a vehicle s fuel or battery level. Designated zones and other features can further be overlaid on the map. The user interface can be configured to be used for setting and adjusting attributes of particular vehicles and zones.

In another example the server can generate reports to track and monitor the activity and costs of to manage a facility. For example an area work activity report can include the time spent maintaining a facility by each vehicle group or vehicle type e.g. greens fairways or roughs over a selected period to time e.g. a week or month the time spent outside work zone e.g. travel time between work zones but excluding time in home zones time spent working each area by each work group and or an average time for maintaining an area. A report can further extract activity information based the work zone work group feature vehicle used or personnel performing the activity. For example on a golf course a work group can include a bunkers fairways greens spray rig tees and turf. Each hole can be defined by a work zone and can include various work groups. The activities of the various work groups in a work zone can be summed together to calculate the total time to management or maintain a work zone.

Reports can also be generated to show a work history for various tracked and monitored areas and activities. For example the work history report can provide a table showing the work zones and the work groups. Information in the table can include the last date and or time activity was performed for a work group in a work zone and the time to perform the activity. The work history report can be used to schedule future activities for a work group in a work zone. The scheduling module may be used to determine a frequency of an activity and the tracking module with the scheduling module can assign and prioritize activities based on the prior activities for a work group in a work zone. Reports can be generated to show vehicle information which can be used to evaluate vehicles and equipment and the effectiveness of various types of vehicles and equipment and to schedule maintenance for the vehicles and equipment. In one configuration a vehicle can be assigned to a work group so activity performed within a work zone by the assigned vehicle can be categorized with the work group.

In an example alerts can be used to provide real time monitoring of work activity and facilities management. Alerts can be used to identify inefficiencies or activities requiring attention such as prolonged idle time. Alerts can be organized in a hierarchy of alerts and actions which can be based on various factors such as when the tag device enters or exits the work zone a location a priority a work crew a distance traveled in the geographical work zone moving time idle time a time of day and a facilities management category. The facilities management category can be any information that is monitored by the system. Alerts can be customized based on a specific activity or condition. In another aspect alerts and corresponding actions can be conditioned on the time of day at which the activity occurs. For example one set of alerts can be used for managing vehicles during work hours while a different set is used for after hours management. Taking the example further after work hours alerts can be set to trigger more prohibitive actions and for longer durations than are used during work hours.

An example of a system for monitoring vehicles and managing facilities in accordance with the present invention is illustrated in . An on board tag device receives location information from a GPS satellite network and detects vehicle motion and transmits this information via cellular network and internet to a computer system such as a server . Such a system can comprise machine readable code for a vehicle management process embodied on the server wherein the vehicle management process comprises an application service configured for receiving information from on vehicle tag devices and includes subprocesses directed to data transport protocol system operations as well as a model to provide object persistence. These elements are shown here to illustrate the nature of such a service but are not exhaustive of elements that can be included in accordance with the level of knowledge in the art.

The process further includes a tracking module and scheduling module . The tracking module is configured to insert location information into a database . For example the location information can be used to provide a series of vehicle positions. The database can also include map related information such as the zones designated in the area to be managed. The database can include vehicle information time stamp information and alert information.

The tracking module module can communicate with the scheduling module to schedule activity for the vehicles. The scheduling module may prioritize activities for the vehicles based on prior activity determined from information collected by the tracking module. In an example instructions for the scheduled activity may be transmitted back to the vehicle.

The functionalities of the system particularly tracking vehicle movement relative to designated zones can reside on the control server and particularly in the vehicle management process. One feature of this arrangement is that the system may not require particular proprietary on vehicle devices. That is it is possible to implement the system using dumb on vehicle devices motion sensors GPS devices transmitters etc. Such devices are readily obtainable from many market sources so that vehicles can be equipped with whatever device is most available or most inexpensive as needed. Furthermore the system can be implemented using an assortment of models of each device type as long as the model is suitable for its basic function. Therefore more vehicles and more devices can be added to the system without being concerned with exactly matching the models already in use. As a consequence the system is highly scalable.

Another feature can be that the system is readily customized to a particular facility and the needs or preferences of the facility managers. That is zone configuration zone properties alert levels and other attributes can be set and modified at the server level. As such modifications to the system need not require modifying the on board devices of each vehicle. This facilitates changing the system to reflect changes in labor cost fuel costs vehicle costs work flows and or efficiency models.

In another particular embodiment some functionalities of the server based process can also be provided in the on vehicle devices so that those functionalities can remain operational in the event that network communication is disrupted.

Another example provides a method for managing facilities as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of equipping a vehicle with a tag device having a transceiver as in block . The operation of designating a zone in a geographical work area in which the vehicle operates follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be monitoring motion of the vehicle as in block . The operation of monitoring location of the vehicle follows as in block . The method can further include transmitting the location and motion via the tag device to a vehicle management process embodied on a server and comprising computer executable instructions for comparing the location of the tag device to the zone and recording a time period when the location of the tag device is within the zone as in block .

All or parts of the management system can be upgraded or downgraded to a desired version. Version changes can be made to firmware components embodied on the devices of the system such as the tag devices or vehicle control devices. In a particular aspect a different version can be provided by transmitting the version information to the component to be upgraded or downgraded. The transmission costs imposed on the communication network by firmware delivery can be reduced by employing a content agnostic approach. In one such approach a binary difference between two versions of firmware can be ascertained and this difference can be embodied in a firmware patch. The patch can then be delivered in either compressed or uncompressed form and integrated into the existing firmware thereby accomplishing the change from one version to another. Also other information such as updated zone information or device configuration can be transmitted to the devices as part of routine system operation. In a particular aspect such transmissions are executed automatically while version upgrades or downgrades can be manually initiated.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

