---

title: Mitigating the effect of a change in sensor calibration parameters
abstract: The disclosure relates to mitigating the effect of a sudden change in sensor calibration parameters. An embodiment of the disclosure retrieves a current calibration parameter value for the sensor, determines a new calibration parameter value for the sensor, and generates transitional calibration parameter values based at least on the current calibration parameter value and the new calibration parameter value using an interpolation function configured to prevent a sudden change in the sensor calibration parameter values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09625490&OS=09625490&RS=09625490
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09625490
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120313
---
The present application for patent claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 565 727 entitled MITIGATING THE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN SENSOR CALIBRATION PARAMETERS filed Dec. 1 2011 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosure relates generally to mitigating the effect of a change in sensor calibration parameters.

Cell phones are frequently equipped with sensors such as a gyroscope and an accelerometer that track the movement of the cell phone. The gyroscope tracks the rotation of the device as it tilts forward or backward turns from portrait to landscape and twists from side to side. The accelerometer measures the linear movement of the device as it moves up or down left or right and toward or away from the user. The data from the gyroscope and accelerometer can be digitized and synthesized to support a motion based user interface on the cell phone as well as other applications such as motion based video games.

For accuracy sensors must be calibrated and occasionally recalibrated. Sensor calibration and auto calibration methods usually cause a sudden change e.g. a relatively instantaneous jump in streaming sensor data. That is after a new value for a calibration parameter is determined the corrected sensor data that are subject to the new calibration value generally suffer from a sudden change when the new calibration value is introduced in the correction. This can lead to an undesirable experience for users of an application that uses the calibrated sensor data.

Some applications that use the calibrated data could actually malfunction if the data have sudden changes. For example a 3D pointing application e.g. in a video game or the user interface that uses gyroscope or accelerometer data may suddenly change the direction of pointing if the gyroscope or accelerometer bias suddenly changes. Slow changes however may be tolerated since the user has the chance to react to the change.

One solution to avoid the sudden changes data jumps due to recalibration is to avoid the calibrated data stream entirely by those applications i.e. data clients that cannot tolerate the jumps. Another solution is to apply the calibration only once at the beginning of the data usage session.

The disclosure relates to mitigating the effect of a sudden change in sensor calibration parameters. An embodiment of the disclosure retrieves a current calibration parameter value for the sensor determines a new calibration parameter value for the sensor and generates transitional calibration parameter values based on at least the current calibration parameter value and the new calibration parameter value using an interpolation logic configured to prevent a sudden change in the sensor calibration parameter values.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

UEs and connect to the RAN at a portion served by a first packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN a home agent HA a foreign agent FA etc. . The first packet data network end point in turn connects via the routing unit to the Internet and or to one or more of an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server a provisioning server an Internet Protocol IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Session Initiation Protocol SIP Registration Server and or the application server . The application server is illustrated as including one or more media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and one or more regional dispatchers . . . N A. UEs and . . . N connect to the RAN at a portion served by a second packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN FA HA etc. . Similar to the first packet data network end point the second packet data network end point in turn connects via the routing unit to the Internet and or to one or more of the AAA server a provisioning server an IMS SIP Registration Server and or the application server . UE connects directly to the Internet and through the Internet can then connect to any of the system components described above.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet and or laptop PC. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information . Finally embodiments include logic configured to calibrate and correct sensor data as will be described in more detail below.

It will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

An embodiment of the invention creates a smooth transition from a calibration parameter that is already in use to a newly determined parameter value in order to avoid jumps in the calibrated data. A suitably selected time function morphs the previous value to the new value providing a smooth transition over time. As an example a linear change between the previous calibration parameter and the new calibration parameter can be used. The time constant of the transition i.e. the time needed to reach the new value is also suitably selected. The consideration for the selection is the tolerance against jumps in applications that are consumers of the data.

Sensor may be any sensor that detects an input and generates an associated output e.g. a gyroscope an accelerometer a microphone a transducer i.e. tactile sensor a photo detector i.e. light sensor etc. Sensors are well known in the art and will not be further described here for the sake of brevity. Sensor outputs a stream of raw sensor data to sensor calibration module and data correction module . Sensor calibration module receives the raw sensor data from sensor and generates calibration parameters to send to data correction module . Generating the calibration parameters will be discussed in more detail below. Data correction module receives the raw sensor data from sensor and the calibration parameters from sensor calibration module and generates calibrated sensor data based on these inputs. Traditionally when a new calibration parameter value is determined it is applied immediately and there is often a noticeable change e.g. a discontinuity step change etc. in the corrected sensor data that are subject to the new value. As will be discussed in more detail below system mitigates the effect of a change in sensor calibration parameter value by transitioning to the new value gradually over time using techniques such as those described in the following paragraphs.

The interpolation logic generates intermediate i.e. transitional values of the calibration parameters that are between the current values of the calibration parameters and the newly determined values of the calibration parameters. The interpolation logic may additionally use one or more past sets of calibration parameters. That is the interpolation logic may use one or more past sets of current and new calibration parameters along with the current set of current and new parameters in order to generate the transitional values. This is multi point interpolation.

The interpolation logic may be a linear or non linear function and generates calibration parameter values based on a given transition time. For example linear interpolation logic may generate transitional values at equal intervals between the current calibration parameter value and the new calibration parameter value. Sensor calibration module could then output the transitional values to data correction module at equal intervals over the given transition time. The given transition time may be based on the difference in value between the current and new values of the calibration parameters or a fixed time period or based on some other factor. For example if the given transition time is based on the difference between the current and new values and the difference between those values is large the transition time would be longer than if the difference between the values was smaller.

At the end of the given transition time the new values not the intermediate values of the calibration parameters may be established as the current values of the calibration parameters and output to data correction module . Alternatively the new values of the calibration parameters may be established as the current values of the calibration parameters after completion of the interpolation logic. Either way calibration module will output the new values of the calibration parameters as the current values of the calibration parameters after the transition from the current values to the new values is complete.

The given transition time may be changed i.e. increased or decreased to improve the calibration correction performance. For example if the transition time is too short the user may notice a sudden change in sensor data. In such a case the transition time could be increased. Further the transitioning may be performed in real time as sensor calibration module receives raw sensor data. Alternatively the transitioning may be done in a post processing mode if the new values of the calibration parameters are time stamped.

Data correction at a particular time twith calibration parameters index j for data point x is given by the formula bias ScaleFactor Traditionally when new calibration parameters e.g. index j 1 are introduced at a later time t the new correction is applied immediately bias ScaleFactor This causes discontinuities e.g. a step or jump in the calibrated data. The following is an example of an embodiment of the invention using a linear interpolation function that may be implemented in the interpolation logic.

In contrast to the step change discussed above an exemplary embodiment of the invention introduces the new values of the calibration parameters gradually over time so that they are fully effective at a time t T where T is a configurable transition time. For example when 0

For each raw data value received after t a new corresponding bias and scale factor is applied until they reach their newly determined value at t T at which point they are kept at their newly determined value. It will be readily apparent to one of skill in the art that the calibration parameters need not be only bias and scale factor but rather may include bias scale factor axis non orthogonality axis misalignment cross sensor misalignment e.g. in the case of multiple sensors etc.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for mitigating the effect of a change in sensor calibration parameters. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

