---

title: Structural systems for restraining elevated surface tiles
abstract: A system for assembling a building surface and a building surface assembly that include surface tiles and stability members disposed between the surface tiles to restrict relative movement therebetween. The stability members may advantageously be placed between outer edge segments of the building surface tiles to restrict relative movement of adjacent surface tiles, such as due to seismic activity, vibrations, or high winds. The building surface tiles may include structures such as engagement channels for receiving and engaging the stability members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08695288&OS=08695288&RS=08695288
owner: United Construction Products, Inc.
number: 08695288
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
This application claims priority as a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 094 364 filed Apr. 26 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 387 317 issued Mar. 5 2013 and entitled SYSTEMS AND SUPPORT ASSEMBLIES FOR RESTRAINING ELEVATED DECK COMPONENTS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to the field of structural systems for restraining surface tiles such as for elevated floors decks and walkways.

Building surfaces such as elevated floors decks terraces and walkways are desirable in many environments. One system for creating such assembled surfaces includes a plurality of surface tiles such as concrete tiles e.g. pavers stone tiles or wood tiles and a plurality of spaced apart support pedestals upon which the surface tiles are placed to be supported above a fixed surface such as a roof. The surface may be elevated above a fixed surface by the support pedestal to promote drainage to provide a level structural surface for walking and or to prevent deterioration of or damage to the surface tiles or to a substrate below the tiles. The support pedestals can have a fixed height or can have an adjustable height such as to accommodate variations in the contour of the fixed surface upon which the pedestals are placed or to create desirable architectural features. The surface tiles may also be supported by other structures e.g. by structural beams in addition to or in lieu of the support pedestals.

Although a variety of shapes are possible in many applications the surface tiles are generally rectangular in shape having four corners. In the case of a rectangular shaped tile each of the spaced apart support pedestals can support four adjacent surface tiles at the tile corners. Stated another way each rectangular surface tile can be supported by four pedestals that are disposed under each of the corners of the tile.

It is also known that large or heavy tiles can be supported by additional pedestals at positions other than at the corners of the tiles to provide increased structural stability. For example a tile may be supported by a pedestal disposed directly beneath a central portion of the tile. Further in some applications it is desirable to support the tiles along an outer edge e.g. between corners of the surface tiles in addition to supporting the corners of the tiles.

One example of a support pedestal is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 588 264 by Buzon which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The support pedestal disclosed by Buzon can be used in outdoor or indoor environments and is capable of supporting heavy loads applied by many types of building surfaces. The support pedestal generally includes a threaded base member and a threaded support member that is threadably engaged with the base member to enable the height of the support pedestal to be adjusted by rotating the support member or the base member relative to the other. The support pedestal can also include an extender or coupler member disposed between the base member and the support member for further increasing the height of the pedestal if necessary. Alternatively support members extenders or coupler members may be in the form of a pipe or box shaped support that may be cut to length.

One problem associated with some systems and structural assemblies for supporting e.g. elevating surfaces formed with discrete surface tiles is that the support structures may not adequately restrict relative lateral and or vertical movement between adjacent surface tiles. This failure of current structural systems may become more pronounced when the structures are utilized in seismically active geographic areas or other locations that may be subject to disruptive vibrations of the fixed surface upon which the structures are placed or are utilized in exterior environments that may be subject to high wind conditions. More particularly disruptive vibrations or high winds may cause relative lateral and or vertical movement between surface tiles when the surface tiles are not adequately restricted from such relative movement and this situation may result in increased stress being placed on the surface tiles e.g. when adjacent surface tiles strike one another and on the support structure itself. Further while some structural systems provide a means to anchor corner portions of the surface tiles to an underlying support it has been found that the corner portions are often too weak to safely and securely restrict movement of the surface tiles. This problem is particularly significant for surface tiles fabricated from brittle materials such as concrete or stone and for larger surface tiles such as large wooden surface tiles.

It is therefore an objective to provide a structural system for assembling a surface e.g. an elevated surface that has improved structural stability compared to existing systems particularly in areas that are prone to disruptive vibrations and or high winds. In one embodiment a structural system for supporting a plurality of building surface tiles is provided. The system includes a plurality of support pedestals and a plurality of stability members. The support pedestals may include a support plate having a top surface and being configured to operatively support a plurality of building surface tiles in horizontally spaced apart relation e.g. when the support pedestals are placed upon a fixed surface. The stability members are configured to be disposed between adjacent building surface tiles that are operatively arranged to form a building surface. In this regard the stability members may include a central portion and a stabilizing arm extending horizontally away from the central portion where the stabilizing arm has a top edge a bottom edge and at least a first tile engaging element protruding laterally from a first side of the stabilizing arm between the top edge and the bottom edge.

The foregoing embodiment is subject to a number of characterizations. In one characterization the stabilizing arms further include at least a second tile engaging element protruding laterally from the stabilizing arm between the top edge and the bottom edge. For example the first tile engaging element may protrude from a first side of the stabilizing arm and the second tile engaging element may protrude from a second side of the stabilizing arm opposite the first side. The first and second tile engaging elements may include horizontally extending ribs laterally protruding from the first and second sides of the stabilizing arm. The first and second tile engaging elements may also include a horizontally extending arcuate surface portion laterally protruding from the first and second sides of the stabilizing arm. In another example the first and second tile engaging elements may include a horizontally extending oblique surface portion laterally protruding from the sides of the stabilizing arm.

In another characterization the stabilizing arm may include an inner hollow portion adjacent to the first tile engaging element. In another characterization the stability members may include a vertically extending aperture disposed through the stability members. In this regard the system may further include a plurality of mechanical fasteners that are configured to be placed through the vertically extending apertures to secure the stability members to the support plates.

In another characterization the stabilizing arm has a length of at least about inch. In another characterization the first tile engagement element protrudes laterally from the stabilizing arm by at least about 1 32 inch. For example the first tile engagement element may protrude laterally from the stabilizing arm by at least about inch. In another characterization the support pedestals include a base plate and a central section interconnecting the base plate and the support plate. In yet another characterization the stability members are fabricated from a material selected from the group consisting of wood natural stone concrete metal polymers plastic or composites thereof.

According to another embodiment a system for assembling a building surface is provided. The system includes a plurality of building surface tiles and a plurality of stability members. The building surface tiles include a top surface a plurality of corner portions and a plurality of outer edge segments disposed between the corner portions where the outer edge segments extend downwardly from the top surface and have an outer edge segment thickness. The stability members are configured to be placed between two adjacent outer edge segments of two adjacent building surface tiles such that the stability members are disposed below the top surfaces of the building surface tiles and are at least partially disposed within adjacent stability member engaging portions that are disposed in the two adjacent outer edge segments of the two adjacent building surface tiles.

The foregoing embodiment may also be subject to a number of characterizations. For example the system may include a plurality of support pedestals that are configured to vertically elevate the building surface tiles above a fixed surface such as where the support pedestals include a support plate having a top surface that is configured to support the building surface tiles.

In another characterization the stability members may include a washer form having an outer periphery. For example the stability member engaging portions may include an engagement channel formed in the outer edge segments where the washer forms are configured to simultaneously be engaged within adjacent engagement channels to restrict movement e.g. vertical and or horizontal movement of the building surface tiles relative to each other. In one aspect the outer periphery of the washer forms has a thickness that is approximately equal to or slightly less than the width of the engagement channels e.g. such that the washer form top and bottom surfaces contact top and bottom surfaces of the engagement channels.

In another characterization the stability members may include a stabilizing arm horizontally extending along a length of the stability members. For example the stabilizing arm may horizontally extend from a central portion of the stability members. In one aspect the stabilizing arm may include at least a first tile engagement element protruding laterally from a first side of the stabilizing arm. The stabilizing arm may also include at least a second tile engagement element protruding laterally from the stabilizing arm. In this regard the first tile engaging element may protrude from a first side of the stabilizing arm and second tile engaging element may protrude from a second side of the stabilizing arm. For example the first and second tile engaging elements may include horizontally extending ribs laterally protruding from the sides of the stabilizing arm. The first and second tile engaging elements may also include a horizontally extending arcuate surface portion laterally protruding from the sides of the stabilizing arm. In another aspect the first and second tile engaging elements may include a horizontally extending oblique surface portion laterally protruding from the sides of the stabilizing arm. In any of the foregoing characterizations the stability member engaging portions may include an engagement channel disposed in the tile for operatively receiving the tile engaging element. The engagement channels may extend along a portion of the outer edge segments of the building surface tile such as where the engagement channels transect a central portion of the outer edge segments of the building surface tiles. In one aspect the engagement channels do not transect the corner portions of the surface tiles.

According to another characterization the building surface tiles are fabricated from concrete. In another aspect the building surface tiles are fabricated from a material selected from the group consisting of wood stone plastic metal and composites.

In another characterization the building surface tiles include at least three corner portions and at least three edge segments. In another characterization the outer edge segment thickness is at least about 1 inch and is not greater than about 3 inches. In yet another characterization the system further includes mechanical fasteners that are configured to secure the stability members to an underlying support. For example the stability members may optionally include a vertically extending aperture disposed through the stability member that is configured to operatively receive the mechanical fasteners therethrough.

In another embodiment a building surface assembly is provided. The building surface assembly may include a plurality of building surface tiles and a plurality of stability members that are operatively interconnected to restrict relative movement of the surface tiles. The building surface tiles may include a top surface a plurality of corner portions and a plurality of outer edge segments disposed between the corner portions the outer edge segments extending downwardly from the top surface and having an outer edge segment thickness. The stability members are disposed between adjacent edge segments of adjacent building surface tiles and are operatively engaged with the outer edge segments of the building surface tiles to restrict relative movement of the surface tiles.

This embodiment may also be subject to a number of characterizations. In one characterization the stability members are secured to an underlying tile support. In one characterization the assembly further includes a plurality of support pedestals at least a portion of the support pedestals being disposed beneath outer edge segments of the adjacent building surface tiles to vertically support and elevate the building surface tile above a fixed surface where the support pedestals comprise a support plate having a tile support surface that supports the building surface tiles.

In another characterization the stability members include a washer form having an outer periphery. For example the outer periphery of the washer form may simultaneously engage the engagement channels of adjacent surface tiles to restrict relative movement of the surface tiles. The outer periphery of the washer form may have a thickness that is approximately equal to or is slightly less than the width of the engagement channel.

In another characterization the stability members include a stabilizing arm horizontally extending along a length of the stability members. In one aspect the stabilizing arm horizontally extends from a central portion of the stability members. For example the horizontally extending stabilizing arm may include horizontally extending ribs laterally protruding from a side of the stabilizing arm such that the ribs frictionally engage the outer edge segments of the surface tiles. In another characterization the outer edge segments may include stability member engaging portion wherein the stability arms are operatively engaged with the stability member engaging portions. For example the stabilizing arms may include at least a first tile engaging element that laterally protrudes from a first side of the stabilizing arms wherein the stability member engaging portions disposed in the surface tiles comprise an engagement channel that operatively receives the first tile engaging element. For example the stabilizing arm may further include at least a second tile engaging element laterally protruding from a second side of the stabilizing arm. The first and second tile engaging elements may include horizontally extending arcuate surface portions laterally protruding from the sides of the stabilizing arm. Further the first and second tile engaging elements may include a horizontally extending oblique surface portion laterally protruding from the sides of the stabilizing arm.

In another characterization the engagement channels may extend along a portion of the edge segments of the surface tiles. For example the engagement channels may transect a central portion of the edge segments of the surface tiles. In a further characterization the engagement channels do not transect the corner portions of the surface tiles.

In another characterization the surface tiles may be fabricated from concrete. In another characterization the surface tiles may be fabricated from a material selected from a group consisting of wood stone plastic metal and composites. In yet another characterization the building surface tiles may include at least three corner portions and at least three edge segments. In yet another characterization the system may further include a plurality of mechanical fasteners securing the stability members to the underlying support. For example the stability members may include vertically extending apertures therethrough that operatively receive the mechanical fasteners. The underlying support may include the top surface of a support pedestal.

The surface tiles may be comprised of virtually any material from which a building surface is constructed. Examples include but are not limited to slate tiles natural stone tiles plastic tiles composite tiles concrete tiles e.g. pavers wooden deck tiles including hardwood deck tiles tiles of metal fiberglass grating rubber tiles and the like. The surface tiles illustrated in are rectangular in shape. However surface tiles may be square or any other appropriate shape e.g. polygonal shapes such as hexagonal or triangular and the building surface may include combinations of different shapes and or different sizes of surface tiles . As illustrated in each surface tile may include a top surface outer edge segments having an outer edge thickness and a plurality of corner portions .

During assembly the support pedestals may be placed in spaced apart relation on fixed surfaces including but not limited to rooftops on grade e.g. natural ground over concrete slabs including cracked concrete slabs and may be placed within fountains and water features used for equipment mounts and the like. Further although illustrated in as being laid out in a symmetric pattern the support pedestals may also be laid out in various configurations as may be dictated by the shape and size of the surface tiles .

Although the support structure is described and illustrated herein as being comprised of support pedestals the support structure may include other structural elements to support the tiles in addition to or in lieu of support pedestals. For example the support structure may include structural beams upon which the surface tiles are placed. Also the support structure may include bracing elements e.g. metal plates or channels that are configured to attach to two adjacent surface tiles e.g. using an adhesive to provide securement of the adjacent surface tiles to each other.

A support pedestal such as support pedestal may be disposed beneath the corner portions of adjacent surface tiles . Other support pedestals such as support pedestal may be disposed under the outer edge segments of the surface tiles . That is support pedestals such as support pedestal may be placed between the corner portions and proximate to a central portion of the outer edge segment . Such a configuration may be desirable when using very heavy and or very large surface tiles such as large concrete surface tiles or the like. Although not illustrated support pedestals may be disposed in other locations such as below a central portion of the surface tiles .

The support pedestals forming the support structure may be fixed height height adjustable support pedestals or any combination and may be constructed of any appropriate materials e.g. plastic . For example referring to a support pedestal may broadly include a base member including a base member extension e.g. a cylindrical base member extension that extends upwardly from a base member plate e.g. a base plate when the support pedestal is operatively placed on a fixed surface. The base member may include base member threads not visible on a surface of the base member extension e.g. internal or external threads.

With continued reference to a support member is configured to be operatively connected to the base member and includes a support plate and a support member extension e.g. a cylindrical support member extension that extends downwardly from the support plate . The support member may include support member threads e.g. external or internal threads on the support member extension that are adapted to threadably engage base member threads to connect the support member to the base member more specifically to operatively attach the support member extension to the base member extension . Thus the support member may be mated directly to base member threads and may be rotated relative to the base member or vice versa to adjust the height of the support pedestal . The support plate is thereby disposed above the base member to support a surface tile thereon. The support plate may also include an aperture such as one configured to receive a mechanical fastener therethrough.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that many other types of support pedestals may be utilized in connection with the present invention. Exemplary support pedestals are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 588 264 by Buzon U.S. Pat. No. 6 363 685 by Kugler U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0261329 by Kugler et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 921 612 by Knight III et al. and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0023385 by Knight III et al. Further the support pedestals may be interconnected such as in the manner disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0011012 by Knight III et al. Each of the foregoing U.S. Patents and Patent Publications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Also as is noted above the surface tiles may be supported by other means such as by structural beams.

Broadly characterized the present invention provides a structural system for assembling a building surface that includes a plurality of building surface tiles and also includes a plurality of stability members that are configured to be placed between two adjacent outer edge segments of two adjacent building surface tiles such that the stability members are disposed between and engage the two adjacent outer edge segments to operatively restrict movement e.g. horizontal and or vertical movement of the two adjacent surface tiles relative to each other. Such a system is particularly advantageous when the system is assembled in areas that are prone to periodic vibrations such as due to seismic activity or man made activity e.g. a train station . Such systems are also particularly useful for assembling building surfaces in areas that are prone to high winds e.g. on roof tops as high winds can cause uplift of the surface tiles.

A stability member is configured to be placed between two adjacent outer edge segments of two adjacent building surface tiles such that the stability member restricts relative movement of the two adjacent building surface tiles when the stability member is operatively disposed between the outer edge segments . For purposes of clarity only illustrates one of the two adjacent surface tiles between which the stability member is disposed.

The stability member includes a stabilizing arm that horizontally extends along a length of the stability member . As illustrated in the stabilizing arm extends away from a central portion of the stability member . The stability member also includes tile engaging elements comprised of several horizontally extending ribs that laterally protrude from a side of the stabilizing arm . The tile engaging elements may frictionally grip the outer edge segments of adjacent surface tiles when the stability member is moved downwardly between the outer edge segments . The stability member may optionally be secured to an underlying surface e.g. a support pedestal or beam using a mechanical fastener .

To provide support for the surface tiles and to provide a surface to which the stability member may be attached a support pedestal having a top surface may be provided. The support pedestal supports the surface tile by elevating the surface tile above a fixed surface when the support pedestal is wholly or partially disposed beneath the surface tile . The support pedestal may be configured to receive the mechanical fastener through the support plate to secure the stability member to the support pedestal . For example the support pedestal may include an aperture for receiving that fastener . Alternatively the fastener may be of a type that does not require a receiving aperture such as a self tapping screw that can be driven into the support plate.

It should be noted that the height of the stabilizing member is not greater than e.g. is less than the thickness of the outer edge segments and so that the stabilizing member may be fully disposed beneath the top surfaces and

A stability member is configured to be placed between two adjacent outer edge segments of two adjacent building surface tiles such that the stability member restricts relative movement of the two adjacent building surface tiles when stability member is disposed between the outer edge segments . As with described above for purposes of clarity only illustrates one of the two adjacent surface tiles between which the stability member is disposed.

The stability member is a washer form that is configured to be disposed within a stability member engaging portion disposed on the outer edge segment of the surface tile . As illustrated in the stability member engaging portion comprises an engagement channel e.g. a notch or slot that is configured to operatively receive the stability member within the engagement channel . Although not illustrated the adjacent outer edge segment will also include a stability member engaging portion comprising an engagement channel to also receive and engage the stability member

As is described above with respect to the support pedestal supports the surface tile by elevating the surface tile above a fixed surface when support pedestal is wholly or partially disposed beneath the surface tile . The support pedestal may also be configured to receive a mechanical fastener through the support plate to secure the stability member to the support pedestal .

The support pedestal is disposed beneath adjacent outer edge segments and of the surface tiles and to support the surface tiles e.g. in conjunction with other support pedestals not illustrated . The stability member is disposed between the adjacent outer edge segments and and may be secured to the underlying support pedestal using a mechanical fastener e.g. a threaded fastener .

The stability member includes an outer periphery that is simultaneously disposed within the engagement channels formed in the outer edge segments and . The outer periphery of the washer form may have a thickness that is slightly less than or approximately equal to the width of the engagement channels. In this manner relative movement of the adjacent surface tiles and can be restricted.

Thus as is described above a stability member may be disposed within the engagement channels to secure the surface tiles and to the support pedestal . Also as is illustrated in stability members may optionally be placed within corner portions and of the surface tiles and . Such structures are described in further detail in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 094 364 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It will be appreciated that the stability members may take a variety of shapes so long as the stability member is configured to operatively engage the outer edge segments of adjacent surface tiles to restrict relative movement between the adjacent surface tiles.

Although not illustrated in a substantially similar tile engaging element structure as structure may be disposed on an opposite side of the stability member see .

The stability member also includes an aperture vertically extending through the stability member along the central portion of the stability member . In this manner a mechanical fastener may be placed through the aperture to secure the stability member to an underlying support surface.

As is noted above with respect to it is an advantage of this particular embodiment that the stability member may be utilized to restrict movement of adjacent surface tiles without requiring the outer edge segments of the adjacent surface tiles to have any particular structure for receiving and engaging the stability member . In this regard it will be appreciated that other structures for the stability member can be envisioned. For example the stabilizing arm may be in the form of a wedge e.g. a tapered shim having a thickness that decreases from the top edge to the bottom edge without requiring horizontally extending ribs to grip and engage the outer edge segments of the adjacent surface tiles.

Similarly illustrates a stability member having a tile engaging element that includes a horizontally extending oblique surface portion laterally protruding from the sides of the single stabilizing arm . The oblique surface portion may be configured to be operatively disposed within an engagement channel in the outer edge of a surface tile having a mating surface structure i.e. an engagement channel having an oblique cross section of similar size and dimensions as the oblique surface portion

Each of the stability members and may also include apertures and respectively that vertically extend through the stability members and and are configured to receive mechanical fasteners therethrough to secure the stability members to an underlying support surface.

In any of the embodiments illustrated in and the stabilizing arm may have a length such of at least inch. Further the tile engaging elements may protrude laterally from the stabilizing arm by at least about 1 32 inch such as by at least inch to securely engage the outer edge segments of the surface tiles. Further the height of the stability members may be less than the thickness of the outer edge segments of the surface tiles such that the stability members may be disposed completely below a top surface of the surface tiles.

The present invention may also encompass a method for the construction of a building surface assembly including several of the components described above. For example a method may include the steps of partially inserting a stability member into a stability member engaging portion e.g. an engagement channel disposed in an outer edge segment of a first surface tile and then placing a second surface tile adjacent the first surface tile such that the stability member is partially engaged with a stability member engaging portion e.g. an engagement channel in the second surface tile. The stability member may be secured to one or both of the stability member engaging portions using e.g. an adhesive to facilitate construction. The stability member may then be secured to an underlying surface e.g. a support pedestal a beam or a bracing element to inhibit relative movement between the first and second surface tiles. This process may be repeated with a plurality of surface tiles to form a building surface that is structurally stable.

In another method a plurality of surface tiles having outer edge segments are operatively arranged to form a building surface e.g. by placing outer edge segments of adjacent surface tiles in proximal spaced apart relation. A stability member may them be inserted between the outer edge segments of adjacent surface tiles and forced downwardly to frictionally engage each of the adjacent outer edge segments. The stability member may be secured to an underlying surface e.g. a support pedestal a beam or a bracing element to inhibit relative movement between the adjacent surface tiles. This process may be repeated with a plurality of outer edge segments of a plurality of surface tiles to form a building surface that is structurally stable.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it is apparent that modifications and adaptation of those embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art. However it is to be expressly understood that such modifications and adaptations are within the scope of the present invention.

