---

title: Remote control of mobile devices to perform testing of wireless communications networks
abstract: A remote testing and control system sends instructions to perform a test to a mobile device, receives test results from the mobile device in response to the instructions, presents the test results within a user interface so that that the test results are viewable by a user, and receives an input to control the test results. The test results may be received and presented within the user interface in real-time. The instructions to perform the test may be scheduled to be sent at a specified time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08811912&OS=08811912&RS=08811912
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08811912
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120406
---
The concepts and technologies disclosed herein generally relate to remote data collection. More particularly the concepts and technologies disclosed herein relate to remote control of mobile devices to perform testing of wireless communications networks.

Wireless communications service providers traditionally utilize drive testing to test signal strength and coverage of their networks. The results of drive testing are typically used by a wireless communications service provider to prioritize investments in new cell sites and equipment to improve the network quality and coverage. Drive testing typically involves hundreds or even thousands of technicians and specially designed vehicles and testing equipment. This is incredibly costly to the wireless service provider and so many wireless service providers are looking at alternatives to eliminate or at least reduce the need for drive testing and the expense associated therewith.

Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for remote control of mobile devices to perform testing of wireless communications networks. According to one aspect disclosed herein a method for testing a wireless communications network remotely via a mobile device is executed by a remote testing and control RTC system. The RTC system sends instructions to perform a test to the mobile device receives test results of the test performed by the mobile device in response to the instructions to perform the test presents the test results within a user interface and receives an input to control the test results.

In some embodiments the RTC system receives the test results from the mobile device and presents the test results within the user interface in real time. Real time is defined herein as the actual time during which a process or event occurs. In the aforementioned embodiments the RTC receives and presents the test results in real time meaning the test results are available for presentation within milliseconds so that it is available virtually immediately as feedback. Real time is also used herein interchangeably with live and instantaneous. The present inherent latencies of communications and computer processes may prevent real time processes such as the receipt and presentation of test results from occurring within an infinitesimal amount of time. It should be understood however that real time is also used herein to broadly encompass zero time and any time that approaches zero as a limit.

In some embodiments the input to control the test results includes a request to stop the test. In these embodiments in response to receiving the request to stop the test the RTC system sends instructions to stop the test to the mobile device and no longer receives the test results until the test is resumed if at all. As an alternative to resuming the test the RTC system may receive request to initiate a new test. The new test in some embodiments includes one or more parameters that are different from the parameters included in the test. In any case the RTC system sends instructions to perform the new test to the mobile device receives new test results of the new test performed by the mobile device in response to the instructions to perform the test and present the new test results within the user interface.

In some embodiments a user of the RTC system may review the test results of the test and determine that it would be beneficial or in some instances necessary to perform the new test in an effort to troubleshoot one or more aspects of the wireless communications network. The new test results may be received and presented within the user interface in real time. In some embodiments the results of the test and the new test are presented simultaneously so as to enable easy viewing by a user to facilitate troubleshooting one or more aspects of the wireless communications network.

In some embodiments the input to control the test results includes a request to pause the test. In these embodiments in response to receiving the request to pause the test the RTC system sends instructions to pause the test to the mobile device and no longer receives the test results of the test while the test is paused. In these embodiments the RTC system also receives a request to resume the test sends instructions to resume the test to the mobile device and then resumes receiving the test results of the test.

In some embodiments the RTC system archives test results in a test results data store. The archived test results may be analyzed for use in making decisions regarding the deployment of additional network resources such as but not limited to cell sites and associated equipment.

In some embodiments the instructions to perform the test include instructions to attach to the wireless communications network and to perform the test on the wireless communications network. The wireless communications network in these embodiments may include a mobile telecommunications network or a WI FI network.

In some embodiments the instructions to perform the test include instructions to attach to the wireless communications network to perform the test and to attach to a second wireless communications network to send the test results of the test to the RTC system via the second wireless communications network. The wireless communications network in these embodiments may include a mobile telecommunications network or a WI FI network. The second wireless communications network in these embodiments may include a mobile telecommunications network or a WI FI network. In some embodiments the wireless communications network is a mobile telecommunications network and the second communications network is a WI FI network. In other embodiments the wireless communications network is a WI FI network and the second communications network is a mobile telecommunications network.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented for example as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

While the subject matter described herein may be presented at times in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices mobile devices wireless devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of a computing system computer readable storage medium and computer implemented methodologies among others for remote control of mobile devices to perform testing of wireless communications networks will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment for various embodiments presented herein will be described. The illustrated operating environment includes a mobile device A A a mobile device B B and a mobile device N N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as mobile device s . Each of the mobile devices may be a mobile telephone such as a smartphone or another computing device such as a laptop computer a tablet computer a notebook computer an ultraportable computer a personal digital assistant PDA or any other type of computing system configured to perform the various operations described herein. In particular each of the mobile devices is configured to communicate with a remote testing and control system RTC system via a wireless communications network .

In some embodiments the wireless communications network is or includes a wireless wide area network WWAN such as a mobile telecommunications network utilizing one or more mobile telecommunications technologies to provide data services and or voice services to the mobile devices and or other devices not shown . The mobile telecommunications technologies that may be utilized by the wireless communications network to provide data services and or voice services to the mobile devices include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or a combination thereof. Moreover the wireless communications network may utilize various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like. Data communications may be provided using General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and various other current and future wireless data access technologies or standards. The wireless communications network may be configured to provide voice and or data communications with any combination of the above technologies. The wireless communications network may be configured to or adapted to provide voice and or data communications in accordance with future generation technologies.

In some embodiments the wireless communications network is or includes a wireless local area network WLAN operating in accordance with one or more Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards such as IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n and or future 802.11 standard referred to herein collectively as WI FI . Draft 802.11 standards are also contemplated. In some embodiments the WLAN is implemented utilizing one or more wireless WI FI access points. In some embodiments one or more of the wireless WI FI access points is another computing device with connectivity to a WWAN and as such is functioning as a WI FI hotspot. Connections to the WLAN may be secured via various encryption technologies including but not limited WI FI Protected Access WPA WPA2 Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP and the like.

Although only a single network is illustrated it is contemplated that one or more of the mobile devices may be in communication with one or more other networks not shown . The other network s may also be WWAN or WLAN networks which facilitate a connection to the wireless communications network or are provided as stand alone networks.

In the illustrated embodiment each of the mobile devices includes a test client application . In particular the mobile device A A includes a test client application A A the mobile device B B includes a test client application B B and the mobile device N N includes a test client application N N hereinafter referred collectively and or generically as test client application s .

The test client application is configured to receive instructions from the RTC system to perform one or more tests on a wireless communications network such as the illustrated wireless communications network and or one or more other networks not shown . In general the test client application can be configured to perform any type of test to acquire metrics regarding one or more operational aspects of the wireless communications network or whatever network the test client application has been instructed to test. By way of example and not limitation illustrative tests include throughput tests latency tests call tests short message system SMS tests multiple radio access bearer mRAB tests i.e. simultaneous voice and data tests voice over Internet protocol VoIP video mean opinion score MOS or idle tests. In some embodiments a test includes the collection of diagnostic data that can then be used by an engineer or other individual or entity associated with the wireless service provider that provides the wireless communications network or the other network s being tested to troubleshoot one or more operational aspects thereof.

In some embodiments the mobile devices are configured with an operating system such as but not limited to SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS MOBILE OS from MICROSOFT CORPORATION WINDOWS PHONE OS from MICROSOFT CORPORATION PALM WEBOS from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION BLACKBERRY OS from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED IOS from APPLE INC. and ANDROID OS from GOOGLE INC. In some embodiments the test client application is integrated within the functionality provided by the operating system of the mobile device . In some embodiments the test client application is configured to execute on top of the operating system. In some embodiments the test client application is configured to utilize one or more application programming interfaces APIs of the operating system and or another application executing on the mobile devices .

In some embodiments the test client application is configured to perform one or more tests per instructions received from the RTC system and to provide test results of the one or more tests to the RTC system . In some embodiments the test client application also is configured to receive instructions through input received by the mobile device . In these embodiments an engineer or other individual or entity associated with the wireless service provider that provides the wireless communications network or the other network s can utilize the test client application to select a mode of control.

The mode of control may be manual testing whereby a test is performed on the mobile device in response to a request to initiate the test received via direct input to the mobile device . The test client application may then provide for the selection of one or more tests to perform and for the input of test settings for the test s .

The mode of control may allow remote control whereby the mobile device is rendered available for testing and a notification identifying the available for testing status of the mobile device can be sent to the RTC system . The mobile device is then controllable via the RTC system for performing tests.

The mode of control may be prompted remote control whereby the mobile device receives a notification from the RTC system to wake up and be ready for receipt of instructions to perform one or more tests.

In some embodiments instructions to perform one or more tests are sent to one or more of the mobile devices . These instructions may include instructions to attach to the wireless communications network if the mobile device is not already attached thereto perform one or more tests on the wireless communications network and send test results of the one or more tests to the RTC via the wireless communications network . Alternatively in some embodiments the instructions to perform the test include instructions to attach to the wireless communications network perform one or more tests on the wireless communications network and to attach to a second wireless communications network to send the test results of the test to the RTC system via the second wireless communications network.

The wireless communications network is illustrated as being in communication with the RTC system . The RTC system is configured to execute a number of modules in order to perform various operations described herein. In the illustrated embodiment the RTC system is configured to execute a data analysis module a user interface module a test schedule module a pending test module a test result search module a test results archive module a real time test results module and a scheduled test results module to perform various operations described herein. The modules may execute on a single RTC system as in the illustrated embodiment or in parallel across multiple RTC systems. In addition each module may consist of a number of subcomponents executing on RTC systems or other computing systems or devices within or in communication with the RTC system . Two or more of the modules may be combined. The modules may be implemented as software hardware or any combination thereof.

The data analysis module is configured to analyze test results to create one or more graphical representations of the test results. A graphical representation may include but are not limited to a table spreadsheet column chart line chart pie chart bar chart area chart scatter chart surface chart doughnut chart bubble chart image icon map text any combination thereof or the like.

The user interface module is configured to generate and or manage user interface elements to receive instructions to initiate tests schedule tests view test results search test results and to perform other operations described herein with reference to A B A C A C and A G. The user interface module is configured to communicate with the data analysis module to receive graphical representations of the test results for presentation by the RTC system . The user interface module is also configured to receive input or other interactions via the user interface elements to instruct one or more of the illustrated modules to perform various operations such as described herein below.

The test schedule module is configured to schedule of one or more tests to be performed by one or more of the mobile devices . The test schedule module is configured to provide test scheduling information to the user interface module to facilitate the scheduling of tests via a user interface as will be described in greater detail below with reference to . In some embodiments the test schedule module facilitates the scheduling of a test via a location in which the test is to be performed. The granularity with which a location is selected can be any granularity including for example state city zip code neighborhood street highway interstate or the like. After a location is selected the test schedule module may allow a user to select one or more mobile devices within that location to use for the test and to setup test details such as which tests to perform and the date and time of the tests.

The pending test module is configured to manage pending tests. Pending tests are tests for which the instructions have been sent to one or more of the mobile devices . Management of pending tests may include for example editing or deleting pending tests. The pending test module is configured to provide pending test information to the user interface module to facilitate the scheduling of tests via a user interface as will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The test results search module is configured to search a test results data store for test results of one or more tests that have been performed by one or more of the mobile devices . The user interface module is configured to receive search queries and or other search related information and provide this information to the test results search module so that the test results search module can perform searches of the test results data store based upon the search queries and or other search related information as will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The test results archive module is configured to archive test results in the test results data store . The test results archive module is also configured to access the test results data store to obtain archived test results and to provide the archived test results to the user interface module to facilitate the viewing of archived test results via a user interface as will be described in greater detail below with reference to . Alternatively the user interface module may obtain archived test results directly from the test results data store .

The real time test results module is configured to receive real time test results from one or more of the mobile devices and to provide the real time test results to the user interface module for presentation in a user interface as will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

Real time is defined herein as the actual time during which a process or event occurs. In the aforementioned embodiments the RTC system and more particularly the real time test results module receives and presents the test results in real time meaning the test results are available for presentation within milliseconds so that it is available virtually immediately as feedback. Real time is also used herein interchangeably with live and instantaneous. The present inherent latencies of communications and computer processes may prevent real time processes such as the receipt and presentation of test results from occurring within an infinitesimal amount of time. It should be understood however that real time is also used herein to broadly encompass zero time and any time that approaches zero as a limit.

The scheduled test results module is configured to receive scheduled test results. The scheduled test results may be received from the real time test results module or may be received directly from one or more of the mobile device s . For instance the scheduled test results module may receive the scheduled test results in real time or may be delayed a specific or arbitrary time. The scheduled test results search module is configured to provide scheduled test results to the test results data store for storage to retrieve schedule test results from the scheduled test results data store and to provide the scheduled test results to the user interface module for presentation in a user interface as will be described in greater detail below with reference to . Alternatively the user interface module may obtain scheduled test results directly from the test results data store .

The test results data store as briefly described above is configured to store test results received from the real time test results module and or the scheduled test results module to provide test results to the real time test results module the scheduled test results module and to provide the test results directly to the user interface module upon request or automatically.

Turning now to a flow diagram showing aspects of a method for testing a wireless communications network remotely via a mobile device will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

It also should be understood that the illustrated methods can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their respective entireties. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined below. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used in the description and claims is used expansively herein to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems wireless devices mobile devices minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices processor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system sends instructions to perform one or more tests to one or more of the mobile devices . For ease of explanation the remaining operations of the method will be described in context of one test and one mobile device referred to herein below for simplicity as the mobile device . It should be understood however that any number of tests and or any number of mobile devices may be used in performing the method and or the other methods described herein below.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives test results of the test performed by the mobile device . In some embodiments the test results are received in real time by the real time results module . In these embodiments the real time results module may then provide the real time test results to the user interface module for presentation within a user interface at operation . The real time results module also may provide the real time test results or more particularly a copy thereof to the test results data store for storage as archived test results and for later retrieval by the test result archive module and or the user interface module .

In some embodiments the test results are received by the scheduled test results module . In these embodiments the scheduled test results module may receive the test results from the real time results module in real time or with some delay. In these embodiments the scheduled test results module alternatively may receive the test results from the mobile device wherein the test results are sent by the mobile device to the RTC system after some delay that is not in real time. In any case the scheduled test results module may then provide the scheduled test results to the user interface module for presentation within a user interface at operation . The scheduled test results module also may provide scheduled test results or more particularly a copy thereof to the test results data store for storage as archived test results and for later retrieval by the test result archive module and or the user interface module .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives an input to control the test results received at operation and presented at operation . In some embodiments the input to control the test results includes a request to stop the test. In these embodiments in response to receiving the request to stop the test the RTC system sends instructions to stop the test to the mobile device and no longer receives the test results until the test is resumed if at all. and the description thereof provide additional details regarding the stop control. In some embodiments the input to control the test results includes a request to pause the test. In these embodiments in response to receiving the request to pause the test the RTC system sends instructions to pause the test to the mobile device and no longer receives the test results of the test while the test is paused. In these embodiments the RTC system also receives a request to resume the test sends instructions to resume the test to the mobile device and then resumes receiving the test results of the test. and the description thereof provide additional details regarding the pause control.

Another control of the test results provides for the export of test results to a document such as a spreadsheet word processing document presentation map Web page or any other document or file that can include the test results. It should be understood that the document need not be able to present the test results in human understandable form. For instance the document may contain data that is readable by an application that is configured to utilize the data to present the test results in human understandable form. A non limiting example would be a document that is useable by a mapping application to create a map of the test results the document itself may not be understandable by a human but the map created by the mapping application would be understandable by a human.

Another control of the test results provides for the manipulation of a graphical representation such as a table chart graph or other graphical representation such as described herein above. A manipulation be used to perform a function such as but is not limited to zoom in zoom out rotate add contextual information remove contextual information edit the graphical representation some combination thereof or the like.

Other controls of the test results include but are not limited to play fast forward and rewind. This functionality is used respectively to playback test results such that the results can be viewed over a specified time to advance forward through playback of the test results faster than by using the play control or to rewind through the playback of the test results.

As explained above to control test results can include the control of test results within a user interface such as playback of test results and or the control of one or more tests that provide the test results.

Turning now to a method for stopping a test being performed remotely via the mobile device will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives a request to stop the test such as via the user interface module . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system sends instructions to stop the test to the mobile device . In response to the instructions to stop the test the test client application stops the test and awaits further instructions if any.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives a request to initiate one or more new tests. For ease of explanation it is assumed that the request received at operation is a request to initiate one test although the request may be to initiate multiple tests. Moreover the new tests may be directed to the same mobile device as the test or to a different mobile device. It should be understood however that different tests may at least in part be used to perform troubleshooting functions and as such it may be beneficial in some cases to utilize the same mobile device so that a comparison of test results of the test to test results of the new test can be fairly drawn. The new test may be directed to a different mobile device if there is a problem with the mobile device that is apparent from the test results of the test and that would indicate the test results are inaccurate or otherwise unusable because the test results do not offer a reliable source of information about operational aspects of the wireless communications network or other network being tested.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system sends instructions to perform the new test to the mobile device . At operation in response to the instructions the RTC system receives new test results of the new test performed by the mobile device . The method then proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system presents the new test results within a user interface such as in a manner similar to presenting the test results described herein above with reference to operation of .

From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation . Alternatively from operation the method may receive further input to control the new test results. The further input to control the new test results may be similar to the input to control the test results as described herein above with reference to operation of .

Turning now to a method for pausing a test being performed remotely via a mobile device will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives a request to pause the test such as via the user interface module . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system sends instructions to pause the test to the mobile device . In response to the instructions to pause the test the test client application pauses the test and awaits further instructions if any.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system no longer receives test results of the test while the test is paused. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives a request to resume the test. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system sends instructions to resume the test to the mobile device . At operation in response to the instructions the RTC system resumes receiving test results of the test. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system resumes presenting the test results within a user interface such as in a manner similar to presenting the test results described herein above with reference to operation of .

From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation . Alternatively from operation the method may receive further input to control the test results. The further input to control the test results may be similar to the input to control the test results as described herein above with reference to operation of .

Turning now to a method for selecting one or more mobile devices to be used for testing a wireless communications network will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described in context of the mobile device being made available for selection. It should be understood however that any number of mobile devices configured with the test client application may be made available for selection depending upon the control mode that is active for a particular mobile device.

The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system and more particularly the user interface module presents a user interface. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system provides a map of the mobile devices that are available for testing. In addition to the mobile devices that are available for testing in some embodiments the map may include devices that are not available for testing such as those in the manual testing control mode and or devices that are available to be prompted for testing such as those in the prompted remote control mode. Selection of a device in the prompted remote control mode in some embodiments initiates an SMS message that is directed to the device to wake up the device prior to or along with instructions to perform one or more tests.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system receives a selection of one or more mobile devices from the map. One or more tests and parameters thereof may be specified. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the RTC system sends instructions to perform one or more tests to the selected mobile devices. The method then proceeds to operation and the method ends.

Turning now to and first to an illustrative schedule test user interface will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the schedule test user interface is provided as tab dedicated to user interface features for scheduling tests to be performed by one or more mobile devices. The schedule test user interface in other embodiments is a dedicated user interface for scheduling tests to be performed by one or more mobile devices. In some embodiments the schedule test user interface is provided on a display that is communicatively coupled to the RTC system . In some embodiments the schedule test user interface is provided to a Web server for inclusion as a Web page or as part of a Web page. In some embodiments the RTC system functions in part as the Web server. Alternatively the RTC system provides the schedule test user interface to the Web server.

The illustrated schedule test user interface includes a credentials prompt . The credentials prompt prompts a user such as an engineer individual or other entity that desires to utilize the RTC system to input credentials to gain access to the RTC system . In the illustrated embodiment the credentials prompt prompt a user for a user identification user ID and password. Other credentials are contemplated. Moreover although the credentials prompt is shown specifically via the schedule test user interface the credentials prompt may be shown in any of the below described user interfaces and may be used repeatedly to authenticate the user s access to particular data presented via the RTC system . In some embodiments a user ID is associated with pending tests scheduled tests and or test results.

Turning now to the schedule test user interface includes a location selection menu . The location selection menu allows a user to select a location in which the user desires to perform one or more tests. In the illustrated embodiment the location selection menu is a drop down menu that provides the available states in which to perform one or more tests with the state of Georgia having been selected. It should be understood that the location selection menu alternatively may contain more or less granular location selection. Moreover although the illustrated location selection menu is a drop down menu another type of menu system prompt or field may be used to acquire a location in which the user desires to perform one or more tests. In some embodiments additional menus other prompts or fields are added to facilitate a more or less granular location selection. For instance another drop down menu may be added to include the selection of a particular city within a selected state. The illustrated embodiment shows the selection of a location from the location selection menu via a mouse cursor. Selection of a location may occur through other mechanisms including but not limited to voice single touch multi touch touch gestures keyboard joystick or some combination thereof.

Turning now to the schedule test user interface includes the location selection menu a map interface that shows the selected location which in the illustrated embodiment is the state of Georgia and a legend . The legend includes a manual control mode identifier a user prompt control mode identifier and an available to test identifier to identify different statuses of a plurality of mobile devices currently located with the state of Georgia. In the illustrated embodiment one of the mobile devices that is available to test has been selected. Upon selection the map interface shows an information overlay that in the illustrated embodiment shows a telephone number associated with the selected mobile device and the location of the selected mobile device in latitude and longitude coordinate. It is contemplated that the information overlay may include more or less contextual information. Additional contextual information may include but is not limited to mobile device battery power number of tests performed within a time period type of tests performed within a time period type of tests available to be performed manufacturer model serial number international mobile equipment identity IMEI and one or more users associated with the device.

Turning now to the schedule test user interface includes a test name field for input of a name of a test a device number field for input of a device number associated with the selected device and a device location field for input of a location of the selected device. The test name field the device number field and or the device location field may be automatically populated or manually populated. Moreover these fields and the remainder of the information shown in may be requested for each mobile device that is to be used to perform a test. These fields may also be configured to accept input for multiple selected mobile devices simultaneously to facilitate batch processing of tests. In the illustrated embodiment of the schedule user interface also includes test description information a contacted device number field a repeat test field a call duration field a text field a test type selection menu a cancel button a schedule button and an instant button .

The test description information A identifies a throughput test that has been selected as indicated by the checked checkbox the contacted device number field A is grayed out to indicate that a contacted device number is not needed for the throughput test the repeat test field A allows for input of a number of times the throughput test is to be repeated the call duration field A is grayed out to indicate that a call duration is not needed for the throughput test and the text field A is also grayed out to indicate that text is not needed for the throughput test.

The test description information B identifies a call test that has been selected as indicated by the checked checkbox the contacted device number field B allows for input of a telephone number of a device that is to be contacted for the call test the repeat test field B allows for input of a number of times the call test is to be repeated the call duration field B allows for input of a duration for a call to be used during the call test and the text field B is grayed out to indicate that text is not needed for the call test.

The test description information C identifies a message test that has been selected as indicated by the checked checkbox the contacted device number field C allows for input of a telephone number of a device that is to be contacted for the message test the repeat test field C allows for input of a number of times the message test is to be repeated the call duration field C is grayed out to indicate that a call duration is not needed for the message test and the text field D allows for input of text to be included in the messages used for the message test.

The test description information D identifies an MRAB test that has been selected as indicated by the checked checkbox the contacted device number field D allows for input of a telephone number of a device that is to be contacted for the MRAB test the repeat test field D allows for input of a number of times the MRAB test is to be repeated the call duration field D allows for input of a duration for a call to be used during the MRAB test and the text field D is grayed out to indicate that text is not needed for the MRAB test.

The test description information E identifies an idle test that has been selected as indicated by the checked checkbox. Since the idle test is a test of the idle state of the selected mobile device the idle test does not include any of the aforementioned fields although the aforementioned fields may be displayed grayed out.

The test type selection menu allows for the selection of which network type to test for a throughput test. In some embodiments the network type selections include a mobile telecommunications data network and a WI FI network. In some embodiments the network type selections include different specific mobile telecommunications data networks and or WI FI networks such that a user can specify exactly which network to test.

Selection of the cancel button clears the aforementioned fields if applicable. In some embodiments selection of the cancel button returns the user to the schedule test user interface shown in .

Selection of the schedule button causes the schedule test user interface to change to the view shown in so that the user can enter date and time information for the test. Selection of the instant button will initiate the test and cause the schedule test user interface to change to the view shown in .

Turning now to the schedule test user interface includes a start test date selection interface a start test time selection interface a stop test date selection interface and a stop test time selection interface for facilitating the selection of a start test date a start test time a stop test date and a stop test time respectively for the test. It should be understood that the other mechanisms to facilitate the selection of a start test date a start test time a stop test date and a stop test time are contemplated. The schedule test user interface shown in also includes the schedule button . Selection of the schedule button causes the schedule test user interface to change to the view shown in .

Turning now to the schedule test user interface includes a scheduled test notification to notify the user that the requested test has been scheduled. In the illustrated embodiment the user may select a tab to continue using the RTC system .

Turning now to an illustrative pending test management user interface will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the pending test management user interface is provided as a tab dedicated to user interface features for managing pending tests to be performed by one or more mobile devices. The pending test management user interface in other embodiments is a user interface dedicated to managing pending tests to be performed by one or more mobile devices. In some embodiments the pending test management user interface is provided on a display that is communicatively coupled to the RTC system . In some embodiments the pending test management user interface is provided to a Web server for inclusion as a Web page or as part of a Web page. In some embodiments the RTC system functions in part as the Web server. Alternatively the RTC system provides the pending test management user interface to the Web server.

The illustrated pending test management user interface includes a test device number column a nick name column a start date column a start time column a stop date column a stop time column an edit button a delete button and a cancel button . The test device number column includes the telephone numbers of the devices that have pending tests associated therewith. The nick name column includes the nick names of the tests. The start date column includes the start dates of the tests. The start time column includes the start times of the tests. The stop date column includes the stop dates of the tests. The stop time column includes the stop time of the tests.

Selection of the edit button allows a user to edit information for a selected test which in the illustrated embodiment is the second test with the nick name Alpharetta 2. Selection of the delete button allows a user to delete a selected test. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection abort a delete operation and or abort an edit operation.

Turning now to and first to a live test results user interface will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the live test results user interface is provided as a tab dedicated to user interface features for presenting live test results. As noted herein above live test results are the same as real time test results. The live test results user interface in other embodiments is a user interface dedicated to user interface features for presenting live test results. In some embodiments the live test results user interface is provided on a display that is communicatively coupled to the RTC system . In some embodiments the live test results user interface is provided to a Web server for inclusion as a Web page or as part of a Web page. In some embodiments the RTC system functions in part as the Web server. Alternatively the RTC system provides the live test results user interface to the Web server.

The illustrated live test results user interface includes a plurality of test result viewer interfaces a controls interface and a cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces allow a user to select test results for from a test selection menu . More particularly a first test result viewer interface A includes a first test selection menu A a second test result viewer interface B includes a second test result viewer interface B a third test result viewer interface C includes a third test result viewer interface C and a fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth test result viewer interface D. It is contemplated that more or less of test result viewer interfaces may be presented within the live test results user interface . The number of test results viewer interfaces may be set by default and changed by the user. In some embodiments the user can add or delete test results viewer interfaces move the test results viewer interfaces around the live test results user interface and otherwise manipulate the test results viewer interfaces such as expanding shrinking minimizing or maximizing the test results viewer interfaces . Full screen views of one or more test results viewer interfaces are also contemplated.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. It should be understood that the fast forward icon may only be available if the current view of the test results is at a time before a present time during which the live results are being presented. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to the live test results user interface includes the plurality of test result viewer interfaces the controls interface and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces in each include a graphical representation of the selected test results. More particularly the first test result viewer interface A includes a first graphical representation of cell ID test results the second test result viewer interface B includes a second graphical representation B of neighbor cell test results the third test result viewer interface C includes a third graphical representation C of received signal strength indication RSSI test results and the fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth graphical representation D of peak upload test results. Although specific test results are shown these should not be interpreted as being limiting in any way nor should the type of graphical representations shown.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to and first to a scheduled test results user interface will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the scheduled test results user interface is provided as a tab dedicated to user interface features for presenting scheduled test results. The scheduled test results user interface in other embodiments is a user interface dedicated to user interface features for presenting scheduled test results. In some embodiments the scheduled test results user interface is provided on a display that is communicatively coupled to the RTC system . In some embodiments the scheduled test results user interface is provided to a Web server for inclusion as a Web page or as part of a Web page. In some embodiments the RTC system functions in part as the Web server. Alternatively the RTC system provides the scheduled test results user interface to the Web server.

The illustrated scheduled test results user interface includes a test device number column a nick name column a start date column a start time column a stop date column a stop time column a start button an export button and a cancel button . The test device number column includes the telephone numbers of the devices that have scheduled tests associated therewith. The nick name column includes the nick names of the tests. The start date column includes the start dates of the tests. The start time column includes the start times of the tests. The stop date column includes the stop dates of the tests. The stop time column includes the stop time of the tests.

Selection of the start button causes the scheduled test results user interface to proceed to the view shown in . Selection of the export button causes the scheduled test results to be exported to a document as described in greater detail herein above. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to cancel an operation.

Turning now to the illustrated scheduled test results user interface includes a plurality of test result viewer interfaces a controls interface the export button and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces allow a user to select test results from a test selection menu . More particularly a first test result viewer interface A includes a first test selection menu A a second test result viewer interface B includes a second test result viewer interface B a third test result viewer interface C includes a third test result viewer interface C and a fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth test result viewer interface D. It is contemplated that more or less of test result viewer interfaces may be presented within the scheduled test results user interface . The number of test results viewer interfaces may be set by default and changed by the user. In some embodiments the user can add or delete test results viewer interfaces move the test results viewer interfaces around the live test results user interface and otherwise manipulate the test results viewer interfaces such as expanding shrinking minimizing or maximizing the test results viewer interfaces . Full screen views of one or more test results viewer interfaces are also contemplated.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. It should be understood that the fast forward icon may only be available if the current view of the test results is at a time before a present time during which the live results are being presented. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to the scheduled test results user interface includes the plurality of test result viewer interfaces the controls interface the export button and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces in each include a graphical representation of the selected test results. More particularly the first test result viewer interface A includes a first graphical representation A of cell ID test results the second test result viewer interface B includes a second graphical representation B of neighbor cell test results the third test result viewer interface C includes a third graphical representation C of RSSI test results and the fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth graphical representation D of peak upload test results. Although specific test results are shown these should not be interpreted as being limiting in any way nor should the type of graphical representations shown.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to and first to an archived test results user interface will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the archived test results user interface is provided as a tab dedicated to user interface features for presenting archived test results. The archived test results user interface in other embodiments is a user interface dedicated to user interface features for presenting archived test results. In some embodiments the archived test results user interface is provided on a display that is communicatively coupled to the RTC system . In some embodiments the archived test results user interface is provided to a Web server for inclusion as a Web page or as part of a Web page. In some embodiments the RTC system functions in part as the Web server. Alternatively the RTC system provides the archived test results user interface to the Web server.

The illustrated archived test results user interface includes a test device number column a nick name column a start date column a start time column a stop date column a stop time column a view button an export button and a cancel button . The test device number column includes the telephone numbers of the devices that have archived tests associated therewith. The nick name column includes the nick names of the tests. The start date column includes the start dates of the tests. The start time column includes the start times of the tests. The stop date column includes the stop dates of the tests. The stop time column includes the stop time of the tests.

Selection of the view button causes the archived test results user interface to proceed to the view shown in . Selection of the export button causes the archived test results to be exported to a document as described in greater detail herein above. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to cancel an operation.

Turning now to the illustrated archived test results user interface includes a plurality of test result viewer interfaces a controls interface the export button and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces allow a user to select test results from a test selection menu . More particularly a first test result viewer interface A includes a first test selection menu A a second test result viewer interface B includes a second test result viewer interface B a third test result viewer interface C includes a third test result viewer interface C and a fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth test result viewer interface D. It is contemplated that more or less of test result viewer interfaces may be presented within the archived test results user interface . The number of test results viewer interfaces may be set by default and changed by the user. In some embodiments the user can add or delete test results viewer interfaces move the test results viewer interfaces around the archived test results user interface and otherwise manipulate the test results viewer interfaces such as expanding shrinking minimizing or maximizing the test results viewer interfaces . Full screen views of one or more test results viewer interfaces are also contemplated.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to the archived test results user interface includes the plurality of test result viewer interfaces the controls interface the export button and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces in each include a graphical representation of the selected test results. More particularly the first test result viewer interface A includes a first graphical representation A of cell ID test results the second test result viewer interface B includes a second graphical representation B of neighbor cell test results the third test result viewer interface C includes a third graphical representation C of RSSI test results and the fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth graphical representation D of peak upload test results. Although specific test results are shown these should not be interpreted as being limiting in any way nor should the type of graphical representations shown.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to and first to a global search user interface will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the global search user interface is provided as a tab dedicated to user interface features searching for test results. The global search user interface in other embodiments is a user interface dedicated to user interface features for searching for test results. In some embodiments the global search user interface is provided on a display that is communicatively coupled to the RTC system . In some embodiments the global search user interface is provided to a Web server for inclusion as a Web page or as part of a Web page. In some embodiments the RTC system functions in part as the Web server. Alternatively the RTC system provides the global search user interface to the Web server.

The illustrated global search user interface includes a location selection menu . The location selection menu allows a user to select a location in which the user desires to search for test results. In the illustrated embodiment the location selection menu is a drop down menu that provides the available states in which to search for test results of one or more tests with the state of Georgia having been selected. It should be understood that the location selection menu alternatively may contain more or less granular location selection. Moreover although the illustrated location selection menu is a drop down menu another type of menu system prompt or field may be used to acquire a location in which the user desires to search for test results of one or more tests. In some embodiments additional menus other prompts or fields are added to facilitate a more or less granular location selection. For instance another drop down menu may be added to include the selection of a particular city within a selected state. The illustrated embodiment shows the selection of a location from the location selection menu via a mouse cursor. Selection of a location may occur through other mechanisms including but not limited to voice single touch multi touch touch gestures keyboard joystick or some combination thereof.

Turning now to the illustrated global search user interface includes the location selection menu a map interface that shows the selected location which in the illustrated embodiment is the state of Georgia a start date selection menu and an end date selection menu . The start date selection menu allows a user to select a start date and the stop date selection menu allows the user to select the end date for a date range within which to search for test results of one or more tests.

Turning now to the illustrated global search user interface includes the location selection menu the map interface that shows the selected location which in the illustrated embodiment is the state of Georgia the start date selection menu which in the illustrated embodiment shows Apr. 17 2012 and the end date selection menu which in the illustrated embodiment shows Apr. 19 2012. The illustrated global search user interface also includes a selected area which a user has selected to fine tune the location within which to search for test results of one or more tests. Selection of a select button provides a user with control to select the selected area or another area within the map interface within which to search for test results for one or more tests. Selection of a search button initiates the search based upon the parameters input in .

Turning now to the illustrated global search user interface includes the elements described above with regard to . The illustrated map interface shows the selected area a plurality of mobile devices within the selected area illustrated as white circles and an information overlay that provides location information for a selected one of the mobile devices.

Turning now to the illustrated global search user interface includes a test device number column a nick name column a start date column a start time column a stop date column a stop time column a start button and a cancel button . The test device number column includes the telephone numbers of the devices that are associated with tests provided by the search. The nick name column includes the nick names of the tests. The start date column includes the start dates of the tests. The start time column includes the start times of the tests. The stop date column includes the stop dates of the tests. The stop time column includes the stop time of the tests.

Selection of the start button causes the global search interface to proceed to the view shown in . Selection of the cancel button allows a user to cancel an operation.

Turning now to the illustrated global search user interface includes a plurality of test result viewer interfaces a controls interface the export button and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces allow a user to select test results from a test selection menu . More particularly a first test result viewer interface A includes a first test selection menu A a second test result viewer interface B includes a second test result viewer interface B a third test result viewer interface C includes a third test result viewer interface C and a fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth test result viewer interface D. It is contemplated that more or less of test result viewer interfaces may be presented within the global search user interface . The number of test results viewer interfaces may be set by default and changed by the user. In some embodiments the user can add or delete test results viewer interfaces move the test results viewer interfaces around the global search user interface and otherwise manipulate the test results viewer interfaces such as expanding shrinking minimizing or maximizing the test results viewer interfaces . Full screen views of one or more test results viewer interfaces are also contemplated.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. Selection of the export button causes the presented test results to be exported to a document such as described in greater detail above. Since not test results are shown in the export button may be grayed out. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to the global search user interface includes the plurality of test result viewer interfaces the controls interface the export button and the cancel button . The test result viewer interfaces in each include a graphical representation of the selected test results. More particularly the first test result viewer interface A includes a first graphical representation A of cell ID test results the second test result viewer interface B includes a second graphical representation B of neighbor cell test results the third test result viewer interface C includes a third graphical representation C of RSSI test results and the fourth test result viewer interface D includes a fourth graphical representation D of peak upload test results. Although specific test results are shown these should not be interpreted as being limiting in any way nor should the type of graphical representations shown.

The controls interface allows a user to play test results by the selection of the play icon pause test results by the selection of the pause icon stop by the selection of the stop icon rewind test results by the selection of the rewind icon and fast forward test results by the selection of the fast forward icon. Selection of the export button causes the presented test results to be exported to a document such as described in greater detail above. Selection of the cancel button allows a user to clear a selection cancel a current operation revert to a previous user interface or some other functionality to cancel a previous operation.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. Although connections are not shown between the components illustrated in the components can interact with each other to carry out device functions. In some embodiments for example the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented. The mobile devices described herein above may be configured like the mobile device . It should be understood that the mobile device may include additional functionality or include less functionality than now described.

As illustrated in the mobile device includes a display for visually displaying data including but not limited to GUI elements text images video virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data and the like. The mobile device also includes a processor for processing data and or executing computer executable instructions of one or more applications stored in a memory .

In the illustrated embodiment the applications include the test client application an operating system OS application and other applications . In some embodiments the OS application is one of SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS MOBILE OS from MICROSOFT CORPORATION WINDOWS PHONE OS from MICROSOFT CORPORATION PALM WEBOS from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION BLACKBERRY OS from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED IOS from APPLE INC. and ANDROID OS from GOOGLE INC. These operating systems are merely illustrative of the operating systems that may be used in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the other applications include for example visual voicemail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications navigation applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications or portions thereof are stored in the memory and or in a firmware and are executed by the processor . The firmware may also store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. In some embodiments the OS or a portion thereof such as a kernel is stored in the firmware .

The mobile device also includes an input output I O interface for the input output of data such as location information presence status information user IDs passwords application initiation start up requests and other input output of data associated with the embodiments disclosed herein. In some embodiments the I O interface is a hardwire connection such as a universal serial bus USB mini USB micro USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ411 port RJ11 port proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device is configured to synchronize with another device e.g. a computer to transfer content stored to from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device is configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface . In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device instead of or in addition to a communications component .

The communications component interfaces with the processor to facilitate wireless communications with one or more networks. In some embodiments the one or more networks include networks that utilize a mobile wireless technology. In some embodiments one or more networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via a cellular network and one or more WI FI WIMAX or other non cellular wireless network.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers each configured to communicate over the same or a different wireless technology standard. For example the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMAONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA W CDMA OFDM SDMA and the like. In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards.

In the illustrated embodiment the communications component includes a first cellular transceiver that operates in one mode e.g. GSM and an Ncellular transceiver operates in a different mode e.g. UMTS . While only two cellular transceivers are illustrated it should be appreciated that more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The illustrated communications component also includes an alternative communications transceiver for use by other communications technologies including WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC other RF combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also facilitates reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like.

The communications component processes data from a network such as an internet the Internet an intranet a home broadband network a WI FI hotspot and the like via an internet service provider ISP digital subscriber line DSL provider or broadband provider.

Audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component that includes a speaker for the output of audio signals and a microphone to collect audio signals.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a universal subscriber identity module USIM system that includes a SIM slot interface for accommodating a USIM card. In some embodiments the USIM system is configured to accept insertion of other SIM cards for access to other network types such as GSM. In other embodiments the USIM system is configured to accept multiple SIM cards. In still other embodiments the USIM system is configured to accept a universal integrated circuit card UICC with one or more SIM applications stored thereupon.

The mobile device may also include an image capture and processing system image system . Photos may be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The mobile device may also include a video system for capturing processing recording and or modifying video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to a MMS message and sent to another mobile device.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a location component for sending and or receiving signals such as global positioning system GPS data assisted GPS data WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like for determining a location of the mobile device . The location component may communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component interfaces with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component includes one or more sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its location or transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also includes a power source such as one or more batteries and or other power subsystem AC or DC . The power source may interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

The computer system includes a processing unit a memory one or more user interface devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more network devices each of which is operatively connected to a system bus . The bus enables bi directional communication between the processing unit the memory the user interface devices the I O devices and the network devices .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the computer system . Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The illustrated memory includes an operating system modules and the test results data store . The modules include the data analysis module the user interface module the test schedule module the pending test module the test result search module the test results archive module the real time test results module and scheduled test results module each of which is described in greater detail herein above.

The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE WINDOWS MOBILE and or WINDOWS PHONE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS and or iOS families of operating systems from APPLE INC. the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems such as proprietary operating systems and the like.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants telephones e.g. cellular IP or landline or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules. In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such the wireless communications network described herein above. Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a WLAN such as a WI FI network a WWAN a wireless personal area network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH or a wireless metropolitan area network WMAN . Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a WAN such as the Internet a LAN such as the Ethernet a wired personal area network PAN or a wired metropolitan area network MAN .

The network embodied as a cellular network may utilize a mobile telecommunications technology such as but not limited to GSM UMTS CDMA ONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation mobile telecommunications technologies. In addition mobile data communications technologies such as GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future mobile data communications technologies are contemplated for use by the network . Therefore the embodiments presented herein should not be construed as being limited to a particular mobile telecommunications technology and or standards utilizing such technologies.

As used herein communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the MD . For purposes of the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves signals and or other transitory and or intangible communication media per se.

Encoding the software modules presented herein also may transform the physical structure of the computer readable media presented herein. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable media whether the computer readable media is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software disclosed herein may be encoded on the computer readable media by transforming the physical state of the semiconductor memory. For example the software may transform the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. The software also may transform the physical state of such components in order to store data thereupon.

As another example the computer readable media disclosed herein may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software presented herein may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations also may include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for remote control of mobile devices to perform testing of wireless communications networks have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

