---

title: Interactive voice access and notification system
abstract: An interactive voice access and notification method includes monitoring one or more notification events associated with one or more recipients identified by a user to detect a trigger of the notification event(s). The method also includes initiating a call to the recipient(s) in response to detecting the trigger of the notification event(s). The method also includes playing back an interactive audible notification message received from the user in response to confirming the recipient(s) are on the call. The method further includes sending a confirmation response to the user when a response from the recipient(s) to the interactive audible notification message triggers a confirmation response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008628&OS=09008628&RS=09008628
owner: TBM, LLC
number: 09008628
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120208
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 367 416 filed Feb. 6 2009 entitled Interactive Voice Access and Retrieval of Information which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 054 460 filed May 19 2008 entitled System Method and Computer Program Product for Interactive Voice Access and Retrieval of Information. 

The present disclosure relates generally to automatic notification systems and more particularly to an interactive voice access and notification system.

Various conventional platforms provide textual interaction with multiple information databanks. However physical inability and multitasking have increasingly dictated the use of hands free systems such as voice response systems. While conventional resources such as the Internet or World Wide Web have provided users with a ready access to a wide array of information accessing such information has conventionally required text based queries. Similarly other services accessible either through the Internet or from other sources generally require a user to interface using text based key stroke commands. While voice response interfaces are available e.g. subscriber s voice mail system robust capabilities for information access is desirable. Furthermore existing voice response interfaces are limited to a particular function and are not readily adaptable to a user s information requirements. As society becomes more mobile i.e. access to wireless communication and more dependent on instantaneous dissemination of information notification of important information with the ability to confirm receipt of the information using voice response is desirable.

For example emergency responders e.g. firefighters search and rescue teams or others need to be contacted immediately to see who is nearby and available. Conventionally such life critical dispatching operations are left to human operators. Human operators contact the appropriate person and determine whether that person can respond to the emergency. However human operators conventionally receive hundreds of phone calls with different emergencies that make it difficult to reach an emergency responder efficiently.

In other instances conventional notification systems inform a user when an electronic mail e mail message was received and allows the user to read the message. Some conventional notification devices provide services that send stock updates sport scores weather alerts traffic updates or other variable information to text compatible communication devices. However the message may not arrive to the intended recipient in a timely manner because people can forget to carry their communication devices with them or the communication devices can fail for any variety of reasons. Conventional services can determine whether the communication device received the notification but ensuring that the intended recipient received the notification is desirable.

In still other instances a recipient can very quickly be inundated with information that the recipient is not interested in. Conventional automated notification systems notify the recipient of all e mail e.g. on a store and forward basis regardless of whether the message is unsolicited spam or an expected message. Sorting through the unwanted messages with greater efficiency is desirable.

In some conventional approaches of communication a user carries multiple communication devices. The user communicates with a combination of devices such as a pager a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a two way communication device e.g. BLACKBERRY or others. However having multiple communication devices makes it difficult to maintain each device in operating condition and affordable communication service.

In other conventional approaches text to speech TTS technology provides users the ability to retrieve e mail messages over the telephone by reading a text message to the user. However the user must call in and sift through all the messages in the user s voice mailbox so informing the user when a message has arrived is desirable.

Thus what is needed is a solution for using voice based communication to reduce dependency of text based communication and increase assurance of information reaching recipients. The solution should permit interactive voice access and retrieval of information without the limitations of conventional techniques.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure an interactive voice access and notification method includes monitoring one or more notification events associated with one or more recipients identified by a user to detect a trigger of the one or more notification events. The method also includes initiating a call to the one or more recipients in response to detecting the trigger of the notification event s . The method also includes playing back an interactive audible notification message received from the user in response to confirming the one or more recipients are on the call. The method further includes sending a confirmation response to the user when a response from the one or more recipients to the interactive audible notification message triggers a confirmation response.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure an interactive voice access and notification apparatus includes a memory and one or more processors coupled to the memory. The processor s is configured to monitor one or more notification events associated with one or more recipients identified by a user to detect a trigger of the notification event s . The processor s is further configured to initiate a call to the recipient s in response to detecting the trigger of the notification event s . The processor s is further configured to play back an interactive audible notification message received from the user in response to confirming connection with the recipient s . The processor s is further configured to send a confirmation response to the user when a response from the recipient s to the interactive audible notification message triggers a confirmation response.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a computer program product for interactive voice access and notification includes a computer readable medium having non transitory program code recorded thereon. The program code includes program code to monitor one or more notification events associated with one or more recipients identified by a user to detect a trigger of the notification event s . The program code also includes program code to initiate a call to the recipient s in response to detecting the trigger of the notification event s . The program code also includes program code to play back an interactive audible notification message received from the user in response to confirming connection with the recipient s . The program code also includes program code to send a confirmation response to the user when a response from the recipient s to the interactive audible notification message triggers a confirmation response.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present disclosure in order that the detailed description that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the disclosure. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiments disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present disclosure. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the technology of the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the disclosure both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present disclosure.

A detailed description is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of various embodiments. The scope of the embodiments is limited only by the claims and encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description. These details are provided solely for the purposes of example and the embodiments may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details.

In one embodiment the notifier can include components e.g. an event listener a call driver and a call flow manager that generate and provide event notifications to the user . In another embodiment the notifier can provide notifications or alerts related to scheduled event generators and unscheduled event generators . In still another embodiment triggers generated by event listener can also detect calendar events and scheduled broadcasts . In still other embodiments other triggers can detect a pager alert e mail message stock quotes traffic alerts weather alerts Amber alerts homeland security advisories voice mail message fax message online auction bid alerts or other unscheduled events.

In some examples one of the pollers and can detect activity from event generators such as receipt of an e mail message . The poller that detected the received email message updates the event database with the email notification which may include storing the email contents as well. The event listener can compare the e mail message against the user notification rules which can be stored in the event database . In other embodiments the event generators may be stored remote from the event database but may be triggered by an external source such as traffic alerts or a weather alerts . The event database can store information about the event generators and the information stored can be searched to find event generators that match the user notification rules . The notifier can query the event database . For example when an event generator from event generators is matched to a rule of the user notification rules then the notifier can provide a voice recognition unit with information of the event. The voice recognition unit can then call the user at the number specified by a notification configuration module or the rule of the user notification rules . In other embodiments the notification configuration module can provide direction or control as to how the event may be provided to the user by phone. Also the voice recognition unit can interact with the user by having the user respond to a prompt or verbal request to confirm that a person instead of an answering machine has answered the phone call. During the interaction between the voice recognition unit and the user the voice recognition unit may request that the user authenticate themselves. In another embodiment a Turing Test can be presented to the user visually or verbally in order to validate that the user received the event notification first hand. When responses from the user are deemed satisfactory the voice recognition unit can then proceed to transform text into verbal information about a first event intended for the user. The event database can then be updated to reflect a status showing that the event notification or actual message was delivered to or retrieved by the user . In still other embodiments interaction with that user can be extended to include actions by the notification system where such actions may include inserting bids based on online auction bid alerts perform stock transactions based on stock quotes

If user input is detected at block then the voice recognition unit may prompt the user for authentication information in block such as including but not limited to a personal identification number PIN typed into the keypad of mobile phone a spoken word or spoken phrase identifying the user. If the provided user authentication information is determined to be invalid in block then the user can be prompted for the authentication information again in block by repeating block through block until the authentication information is determined to be valid. The call can terminate in block . If the user is unable to authenticate him or herself then the voice recognition unit can hang up the call as depicted in block .

The voice recognition unit can attempt to reach the user later for as many times as the user has configured the notification configuration module for retries. A failed recognition can be counted as one attempt to notify the user . The notifier can have the flexibility to provide the user an option to call back at the phone number to check in with the system.

When authentication is valid in block the user can be informed of the notification event as shown in block . In one embodiment information about the event including subject matter and sender information at block can be spoken to the user . In block the voice recognition unit can wait for an input from the user . In some embodiments the user can interact with the voice recognition unit by choosing to listen to the event information skipping the event information proceeding to the next event information or hanging up the call. If the user chooses to listen to information about an event additional inputs from the user can be entered at any time during the call. In another embodiment a call can be managed by call flow manager . For example the user can choose an action that saves replays deletes skips replies proceeds or signs off from the system while the event is playing. When user input is detected or received in block the voice recognition unit can respond appropriately in block and block as necessary to speak about additional event information. At the end of the event the voice recognition unit can continue to wait for additional user inputs in block until there are no more events to narrate to the user as determined in block . When there are no more events the user can be signed out in block and the voice recognition unit can hang up.

In some embodiments the notification system can be configured to dispatch a call tree of emergency responders. For example homeland security advisories can be provided to all the emergency responders having their methods of contact entered into the user notification rules . In the event of an emergency the automated system can contact each responder e.g. user user and user concurrently and dispatch instructions for each responder in parallel. The notification system may require interaction with the user to determine if the appropriate person has received the message. Information about the message delivery can be fed back to a dispatch center which can then be displayed to a dispatcher. The dispatcher can determine how many responders are available and can stop the notification system from contacting further responders when an appropriate number have been reached. Automating the dispatching service with parallel notifications to multiple users allows the dispatcher to receive more emergency calls from those in distress and greatly reduce response times. Other examples of the notification system may include but is not limited to notifying users and law enforcement officers of when a child has been abducted in their area.

In other embodiments the notification system can be configured to manage notifications regarding personal matters. For example physicians offices can automatically remind patients of appointments and can offer the ability to reschedule. Airlines can automatically notify passengers when a flight is delayed or cancelled and can provide the ability to reschedule. Users of online dating services or any other classified advertising service can be notified when someone responds to their ad and can be provided an opportunity to perform multiple actions such as respond to the response request additional information or schedule a meeting with the respondent. In other examples financial companies can notify their customers when there is a problem with an account such as an overdraft or unusual activity on the account. Commercial sales can also make use of the notification system . For example a stock broker can automatically notify a customer when a stock of interest has dropped below a specified price and can allow the customer to purchase the stock. In another example an on line auction website can automatically notify a bidder regarding attainment of various bid objectives such as when a maximum bid has been exceeded or allow the bidder to increase their bid through the notification system .

The present disclosure can be used in many scenarios where the user is expecting an event to occur and with the accessibility to a mobile phone e.g. communication device a computing device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a multi function voice enabled device a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP device or other mobile phones is notified of the event s occurrence. The examples presented here are not meant to limit the implementations of the disclosure in any way but are intended to further illustrate exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the computer system can include an input device such as a mouse or other pointing device of the like e.g. a digitizer and a keyboard or other data entry device of the like. The computer system can implement output devices including but not limited to a display and a display interface . The computer system can include input output I O devices such as a communications interface a cable and a communications path which each can be connected to a network interface card or a modem. The communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between the computer system and external devices. Some exemplary devices that are connected to the communications interface may include a modem a network interface e.g. an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card or of the like. Software and data transferred via the communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other type of signal capable of being transferred across the communications interface using the cable . The cable links to the communications interface via the communications path . The communications path can carry electronic signals via the cable fiber optics a telephone line a radio frequency RF link or other types of communication channels.

In some embodiments computer programs may include object oriented computer programs which are stored in either the main memory or the secondary memory . In other examples the objected oriented computer programs may also be stored in a removable storage drive which generally refer to computer program products. Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform features of the present disclosure as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the present disclosure.

In other embodiments the disclosure is directed to a computer program product including a computer readable medium having control logic computer software stored therein. The control logic when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the disclosure as described herein. In still other embodiments the computer software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into the computer system using the removable storage drive hard disk drive or communications interface . The computer software can run as a standalone application running atop an operating system or can be integrated into the operating system.

In still other embodiments the computer system includes one or more of processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . The computer system can include the display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for presenting on the display . The computer system can also include a main memory such as random access memory RAM with a secondary memory . The secondary memory can include either a hard disk drive or a removable storage drive which represents a floppy diskette drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a compact disk drive CD ROM or of the like. The removable storage drive either reads from or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. The removable storage unit which can be referred to as a program storage device or a computer program product is accessed for reading and writing by removable storage drive . In some embodiments the removable storage unit includes a computer readable storage medium that stores computer data and instructions.

In yet another embodiment the secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or instructions be loaded into the computer system . For example a removable storage unit and an interface may provide an alternative storage capacity. Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface e.g. those found in video game devices or a removable memory chip e.g. an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM programmable read only memory PROM with associated socket which allow either data or instructions to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computer system . In some examples hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or other integrated circuits can implement one or more portions of the computer system to provide functionality as described herein. In other examples the computer system can be implemented in a combination of both hardware and software components.

The disclosure may be used for example in conjunction with a product registration system. In one example a manufacturer may use the notification function of the present disclosure to inform registered customers of new product features product defects or recalls. Similarly customers may be notified when the warranty on a registered product is about to expire with the option to purchase extended warranty coverage.

In another example the notification function may be integrated into a voice responsive product registration system. Such a system may allow a product purchaser to call into an automated voice responsive system to register the purchased product. The purchaser may be presented with any number of questions about the product purchased product preferences personal interests or of the like. The purchaser s verbal responses may be captured and stored in a database. A response to the questions may trigger an event notification. For example if the purchaser indicates an interest in a complementary product a notification may be sent to a sales agent about the complementary product to follow up with the purchaser. In another example the purchaser may indicate an interest in features that are not yet available and a notification may be sent to the purchaser when those features become available.

In other examples the notification function may be used in conjunction with a broadcast voice notification system that may speed and simplify the notification process. The broadcast voice notification system pushes important information or notices to individual recipients with security delivery authentication and single point activation. The broadcast voice notification system s secure voice alert administration is easy and intelligent and may allow the user to select people to notify and to make choices on the fly even to monitor who has been contacted moment by moment.

The broadcast voice notification system may provide a simple web interface which may allow a phone list to be instantly created or recalled a message to be typed or pasted and sent to many people simultaneously. The broadcast voice notification system may provide a seamless broadcasting system that gets a message delivered quickly. The broadcast voice notification system may contact all the people on a list at once and reading the message to them when they answer the phone. The user who originates the message may monitor its broadcast in real time through a computer based user interface. The user interface may show if a call attempt fails and the user may then try again at the appropriate time.

A monitor mechanism monitors the location of a calling party e.g. the user . This allows the system to monitor and access the nature of the message being received and provide appropriate location sensitive or responsive services such as a 411 system and to look up numbers and provide context relevant notification e.g. location time of day user profile related or others. during an interactive call with a user. Thus the system may not require a user to hang up and thereby provide another notification but instead while monitoring the persons current session the system may provide other relevant services. So for example if a user is looking up restaurants the system can offer them a voice coupon and notify the person that for example a particular nearby restaurant is offering a special deal right now and provide an option to connect the user to the establishment and give them the coupon offer. In doing so the system may also initiate a call to that restaurant let the restaurant staff know that someone is on the line that is asking for the coupon offer and then connect the call. According to another embodiment the system may offer a voice coupon and ask the user to confirm e.g. would you like the coupon In response to an affirmative verbal reply the system may email that coupon to the user or email the user a link to where they can register to receive the coupon. According to another embodiment the system may take user registration information using a voice registration functionality to take the person s complete name address info if necessary and or pull it out of the system e.g. perform a look up . The system may further register all of that person s interests and for example put them on a mailing list to mail them a free sample of an associated product.

Returning to block the system once again looks at alerts and so again with reference to the instant example and context a user may be doing a 411 lookup for a particular area e.g. requesting weather for a particular area news based on a zip code or others. Alternatively if the system knows a person s default area it may look to see if there is an alert either based on user preferences or some sort of emergency indicated to be associated with the particular geographical area of the user. If there is an alert processing may continue at block where an appropriate voice message may be generated to the user e.g. There is a weather alert for your region would you like to hear it If they say No then the system may continue back into the interactive system allowing the user to continue retrieving news or request new information. Alternatively if the answer is Yes the weather alert is instead provided after which the user is returned back into the system. While this system of context sensitive interrupts may be provided on the web to provide context sensitive ads using various web pages embodiments of the present system may read the text based information on a web page to provide context sensitivity with voice interaction with the user being offered context sensitive mechanisms based on their location and other factors while the system is retrieving data in a voice application.

In one aspect of the disclosure the user interaction may be based on real time requests for new data or information. For example real time requests may be associated with volatile or time sensitive data such as a user s online calendar appointments or various forms of social media information during a call or telephone session. The alert driver may interact with data on the Internet to identify and provide structured data sources such as RSS feeds text that is formatted in very specific ways weather reports having a very specific structure or others. Data may also be provided by private data sources homeland security alerts and information municipalities police precincts and other sources of preferably structured data. The alert driver feeds into an alert engine which contains rules and is a mechanism for deciding how to contact an end user. The alert engine may for example determine whether or not the system should attempt to contact a user based on certain rules e.g. depending on their time of day preferences and where to contact the user if they have provided us multiple points of contact multiple contact numbers or others. For example the alert engine may include an ability to spread a multiple destination with the same alert as may be useful use in an emergency scenario when it may be desirable to notify a group of 100 people for a particular emergency. Alerts can be provided to a receiving node as voice messages.

The interactive voice access and retrieval of information system can be implemented in conjunction with an interactive voice access and notification system. In one aspect of the disclosure the interactive voice access and notification system may support an electronic health record system that includes an alert capability. The electronic health record system may processes notification events provided or selected by a user. In one aspect of the disclosure the notification events may relate to the health and or well being of a family member. In this aspect of the disclosure the electronic health record system queues automated telephone calls to a recipient or contact e.g. a family member during a current scheduled time triggered by a notification event for monitoring the health and or well being of the family member.

In some aspects of the disclosure an event monitoring system monitors one or more notification events associated with one or more contacts in a contact list or other arrangement of contacts received from a user. The event monitoring system monitors the one or more notification events to determine a trigger for the one or more notification events. The event monitoring system also initiates a call including an audible notification message to the one or more contacts based on the trigger for the one or more notification events. The event monitoring system further sends a confirmation response to the user when response information from the one or more contacts triggers a confirmation response.

Although the response information from the one or more contacts includes personal health record the information or notification e.g. confirmation response sent to the user regarding the personal health record of the one or more contacts may be a generic message associated with the personal health record. The information may be generic to comply with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA specifications. For example the notification to the user may indicate that the call to the one or more contacts reports an out of range response. In some aspects of the disclosure the interactive voice access and notification system may prompt the user to login to the secure web interface to view the personal health record stored in a Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA compliant database.

Although the interactive voice access and notification system illustrated by is described with reference to an electronic health record system for monitoring the health of family members provided by a user the system also applies to monitoring any contact provided by the user to improve the general well being of the contact. For example the audible notification messages may be implemented to alert the contact to pay their rent utility bill send birthday or anniversary greetings or other non health related event.

The interface is configured to receive information identifying one or more contacts including but not limited to family members friends and or associates in an arrangement of contacts e.g. a contact list from the user . The interface may also be configured to receive one or more events e.g. notification events in an arrangement of notification events e.g. event list from the user . In one aspect of the disclosure the interface may be associated with a notifier e.g. notifier to receive the notification events from the user . The notifier may be integrated in the event monitoring system or may be independent but coupled to the event monitoring system . The interface may be further configured to receive a response report based on a response from one or more contacts . The response report may be arranged in a response list RL or other arrangement for display on the interface . In one aspect of the disclosure the response report may be received from the storage device .

The contacts can be aging seniors living in their own homes at a distance from other family members. The user or account owner creates the contact list of family members and friends who are eligible to receive the audible notification message. In one aspect of the disclosure the creation of each new contact by the user triggers an authentication or notification rule either immediately or at a user specified date and time. For example a triggering module not shown triggers the authentication rule in response to an addition of a new recipient. The authentication rule includes a time for contacting the recipient contact information for the recipient and or an identification information for the recipient. The authentication rule may include calling the contact confirming the identity of the contact and or requesting explicit permission to add the contact to the contact list for purposes of automated notification. In some aspects of the disclosure each contact that is an HIPAA covered entity may be added to the contact list or be monitored without explicit permission. For example pre existing signed documentation allowing such contact with an HIPAA covered entity may already exist. The authentication rule may be part of a broader notification rule e.g. notification rule . The notification rule may be implemented to acquire and save health related information of the contact in the storage device . Sending messages from the user to the contact in the contact list may be based on the successful authentication of the contact . For example the user may not send any further messages to the contact until for example the contact provides an approval.

The interface receives a notification event e.g. the notification event of or a list of notification events associated with one or more contacts . The notification event may be selected at the option of the user or created by the user . Each notification event created or selected by the user can generate one or more telephone calls to one or more contacts in the contact list . The notification event may include a customized message from the user a predetermined data collection dialog or the like. For example a notification event may include instructions to call a family member in the contact list every morning except Sunday at 11 15 am. The notification event may also include reading a personal or customized message e.g. pre recorded by the user asking a yes or no medication adherence question and recording a response asking for and recording health related information including blood sugar reading blood pressure reading and asking for and recording any response e.g. voice message from the family member.

The predetermined data collection dialog may also include a set of confirmation criteria rules. For example a confirmation criteria rule may indicate when a blood sugar reading of a family member is outside a predetermined range over a predetermined number of days in a row. When this blood sugar reading event occurs the confirmation criteria rule may facilitate notifying the user or a predetermined contact e.g. medical caregiver or medical emergency response entity via an e mail message a telephone call a voice mail message a short message service SMS message a pager alert and or a fax. The user may also access the response information by accessing a secure web interface e.g. interface and viewing the response. The response information may include medical related information of the contact including biometric measurement information data measured by a medical device diagnostic information and health status information of the contact . In one aspect of the disclosure the contact list and the list of notification events are maintained by the user and are stored in the storage device .

The event monitor module monitors the list of notification events to ensure that the notification events are implemented accordingly. In one aspect of the disclosure the event monitor module processes the notification events and queues automated telephone calls for a current scheduled time for one or more notification events. For example the event monitor module affirms the current scheduled time i.e. correct time recurrence schedule day of month day of week etc. of a notification event affirms the validity of a contact in the contact list and affirms the validity of an audible notification message in preparation for the queuing of a telephone call to a contact in the contact list . The call module initiates the call to the contact at an appropriate time affirmed by the event monitor module . The call module identifies when the call is answered by a live person and when the call is answered by the intended contact . The call may be re queued when the call is not answered by a live person and or when the call is not answered by the intended contact . The status of the call is saved in the storage device and or posted to the response list as an unsuccessful call. When the call module indicates the call is answered by the intended contact the audible notification message is read to the contact and the data collection dialogs are executed.

The response information received from the contact is recorded by a recording module and then stored in the storage device . A list of responses from one or more contacts may be provided to the response list for display on the interface . The response information is also monitored by the response monitor module to facilitate activation of any confirmation notification rules defined by the user . For example the response monitor module may trigger a confirmation response when the medical related information provided by the one or more contacts is outside of a predetermined range. The confirmation notification rules may be part of a notification rule e.g. notification rule . In one configuration when a confirmation rule is triggered by any response from the contact a notification message is sent by the confirmation module to the user via a specified communication channel. The specified communication channel may include an e mail message a voice mail message or telephone call a pager alert a short message service SMS message a multimedia messaging service MMS message a fax message a push notification to mobile device application or other communication channel. In this configuration the notification message which is based on the response information is monitored and processed to comply with HIPAA standards.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

