---

title: System and method for dynamic ASR based on social media
abstract: System and method to adjust an automatic speech recognition (ASR) engine, the method including: receiving social network information from a social network; data mining the social network information to extract one or more characteristics; inferring a trend from the extracted one or more characteristics; and adjusting the ASR engine based upon the inferred trend. Embodiments of the method may further include: receiving a speech signal from a user; and recognizing the speech signal by use of the adjusted ASR engine. Further embodiments of the method may further include: producing a list of candidate matching words; and ranking the list of candidate matching words by use of the inferred trend.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646604&OS=09646604&RS=09646604
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09646604
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120915
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to dynamic automatic speech recognition ASR and in particular to a system and method for dynamically altering ASR operation based upon information mined from social networking sources.

Contact centers generally exchange information with consumers through directed contacts. Directed contacts consist of emails phone calls or other forms of communication that are directed to the contact center or the consumer. However many people today exchange information or interact through non direct methods. Non direct communications require users to post communications to third party sites or forums but not to direct those communications to a specific person or organization. Non direct communication methods include social media which may include websites networks blogs micro blogs RSS feeds social media websites such as Linked In Facebook Twitter MySpace etc. and other types of social media.

Consumers are finding it useful to ask their questions complain about service and complement companies in the public forum of social media. Social media is often a canary in a coal mine i.e. an early indicator for possible service affecting events because social media users typically express themselves on social media channels before using traditional channels like voice. The addition of social media to valid contact center channels increases the overall coverage required by today s contact center. However contact centers have limited amounts of resources. The burden of keeping other traditionally static contact center self service channels current efficient and useful becomes a difficult problem. Therefore traditional contact centers do not react to trends in social media that duplicate trends from other channels like voice dialog via interactive voice response IVR . Delays in addressing a customer crisis results in lost time and money for a business.

Therefore a need exists to adapt speech grammars recognized by contact center channels based on real time trending events detected from social media in order to provide high customer satisfaction efficient call handling and minimizing the burden on today s contact center resources.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention provide a system and method to adjust an automatic speech recognition ASR engine the method including receiving social network information from a social network data mining the social network information to extract one or more characteristics inferring a trend from the extracted one or more characteristics and adjusting the ASR engine based upon the inferred trend. Embodiments of the method may further include receiving a speech signal from a user and recognizing the speech signal by use of the adjusted ASR engine. Further embodiments of the method may further include producing a list of candidate matching words and ranking the list of candidate matching words by use of the inferred trend.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects of the invention can be separately claimed.

The term in communication with as used herein refers to any coupling connection or interaction using electrical signals to exchange information or data using any system hardware software protocol or format.

A user context an extended user context and or a user social context as used herein means information about a user of a social media network that can be used to determine a value of that user.

The term social media network or social media is a service provider that builds online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Generally social media are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services.

The preceding is a simplified summary of embodiments of the disclosure to provide an understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is neither an extensive nor exhaustive overview of the disclosure and its various embodiments. It is intended neither to identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor to delineate the scope of the disclosure but to present selected concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as an introduction to the more detailed description presented below. As will be appreciated other embodiments of the disclosure are possible utilizing alone or in combination one or more of the features set forth above or described in detail below.

The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. To facilitate understanding like reference numerals have been used where possible to designate like elements common to the figures. Optional portions of the figures may be illustrated using dashed or dotted lines unless the context of usage indicates otherwise.

Social Media channels are gaining momentum as a platform for delivering and receiving customer support. Consumers are finding it useful to ask their questions complain about service and complement companies in the public forum of Social Media. The addition of Social Media to valid contact center channels increases the overall convergence required by today s contact center. The burden of keeping other traditionally static contact center self service channels current efficient and useful becomes a difficult problem.

Customers benefit from efficient interactive voice response IVR systems that make the most common menu choices and options easy to find and simple to navigate. This becomes very difficult when deploying a static system with many options and many levels of menus. Furthermore the need may arise to move menu items around based on time of day current events or trending problems.

Automatic speech recognition ASR can help with some of the difficulties of multilevel menu navigation. However ASR is not perfect. ASR is not 100 accurate in recognizing words phrases that are known to its vocabulary and it is 100 wrong on words phrases that are not known to its vocabulary. Recognizing speech regardless of the speaker is a challenge. When the system is uncertain choices must be made based on confidence scores. Real time data about trending problems may help determine a preferred choice when indicators such as confidence scores do not produce a clearly preferred option. An advantage of using social media trends is to expand or contract the size of the vocabulary to improve the likelihood of a correct match when a caller speaks on an unexpected topic that is showing up as a trend on social media. The adjustments provided by tracking social media trends may include vocabulary expansion or contraction and modifying probabilities e.g. weights and or penalties of existing vocabulary as a reaction to identified trends. Embodiments may apply a trending bonus after speech recognition to modify the confidence scores but a disadvantage is that this bonus can be applied only for terms that have been recognized and cannot be applied to new terms not already within the vocabulary of an ASR engine. Therefore adapting contact center channels based on real time trending events may be critical to achieving high customer satisfaction efficient call handling and minimizing the burden on today s contact center resources. For example delays in addressing a customer crisis may result in lost time and money for the business.

The disclosure will be illustrated below in conjunction with an exemplary communication system. Although well suited for use with e.g. a system using a server s and or database s the disclosure is not limited to use with any particular type of communication system or configuration of system elements. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed techniques may be used in any communication application in which it is desirable to utilize social media sources to dynamically alter ASR operation.

The exemplary systems and methods of this disclosure will also be described in relation to software modules and associated hardware. However to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present disclosure the following description omits well known structures components and devices that may be shown in block diagram form are well known or are otherwise summarized.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments or other examples described herein. In some instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as to not obscure the following description. Further the examples disclosed are for exemplary purposes only and other examples may be employed in lieu of or in combination with the examples disclosed. It should also be noted the examples presented herein should not be construed as limiting of the scope of embodiments of the present invention as other equally effective examples are possible and likely.

As used herein in connection with embodiments of the present invention the term contact as in customer contact refers to a communication from a customer or potential customer in which a request is presented to a contact center. The request can be by way of any communication medium such as but not limited to a telephone call e mail instant message web chat and the like.

As used herein in connection with embodiments of the present invention the term customer denotes a party external to the contact center irrespective of whether or not that party is a customer in the sense of having a commercial relationship with the contact center or with a business represented by the contact center. Customer is thus shorthand as used in contact center terminology for the other party to a contact or a communications session.

As used herein in connection with embodiments of the present invention the term empower refers to an ability by a party e.g. a customer to exercise rights abilities functions and so forth which had been formerly and exclusively reserved for exercise by another party e.g. a service agent .

The terms switch server contact center server or contact center computer server as used herein should be understood to include a Private Branch Exchange PBX an ACD an enterprise switch or other type of telecommunications system switch or server as well as other types of processor based communication control devices such as but not limited to media servers computers adjuncts and the like.

As used herein the term module refers generally to a logical sequence or association of steps processes or components. For example a software module may comprise a set of associated routines or subroutines within a computer program. Alternatively a module may comprise a substantially self contained hardware device. A module may also comprise a logical set of processes irrespective of any software or hardware implementation.

As used herein the term gateway may generally comprise any device that sends and receives data between devices. For example a gateway may comprise routers switches bridges firewalls other network elements and the like any and combination thereof.

As used herein the term transmitter may generally comprise any device circuit or apparatus capable of transmitting an electrical signal.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage and or transmission medium that participates in storing and or providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read. A digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include a tangible storage medium or distribution medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present disclosure are stored.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements of the embodiment without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

A communication system for interacting with persons using social media is shown in . The communication system can include a contact center a network and one or more types of social media networks or systems such as social media network social media network and or social media network . Social media networks and or can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke or other similar computer enabled systems or websites. The communication system can communicate with more or fewer social media networks and or than those shown as represented by ellipses .

The network can be any network or system operable to allow communication between the contact center and the one or more social media networks and or . The network can represent any communication system whether wired or wireless using any protocol and or format. The network provides communication capability for the contact center to communicate with websites or systems corresponding to the one or more social media networks and or . However the network can represent two or more networks where each network is a different communication system using different communication protocols and or formats and or different hardware and software. For example network can be a wide area network local area network the Internet a cellular telephone network or some other type of communication system. The network may be as described in conjunction with .

A contact center can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networking sites and or . The contact center can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The contact center can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems as described in conjunction with . The contact center can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the contact center to receive service and respond to directed and non directed contacts. For example the contact center can include the telephone or email system an interface to human agents systems to allow human agents to service and respond to received contacts and one or more systems operable to analyze and improve the function of agent interaction.

The contact center may include a dialog system and a social media gateway . While the dialog system and the social media gateway are shown as being a part of the contact system in other embodiments the dialog system and or the social media gateway are separate systems or functions executed separately from the contact center and or executed by a third party. The dialog system may process and receive messages. The social media gateway can receive and translate messages from the one or more social media networks and or . An embodiment of the dialog system is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with .

The contact center may also communicate with one or more communication devices . The communication devices can represent a customer s or user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the contact center to interact with the customer. The contact center can modify a non direct contact from a social media network and or into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device .

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware.

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the contact center from a social media network and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message between two friends on a Facebook page if not pertaining to a product or a service of the company operating the contact center may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete the non suitable message from the messages that are received by the social media network application programming interface API social media network API and or social media network API . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to translate those messages that should be received by the dialog system . Translation typically requires the conversion of the message into a different format.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics for filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the external customer or internal user e.g. agent or administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or customer of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks and or as some social media networks and or may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks and or . While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call.

The social media network API can be an application that the social media network and or provides to access the social media network and or . Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed for social media API . Examples of filter criteria include positive content of positive the source of posting an address field destination or recipient address fields a time stamp field a subject matter field and a message body field. For example a type of searchable content can be name of the business enterprise running or employing the contact center and or the products or services of the enterprise.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can be easily expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple social media networks .

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network and or . The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the dialog system . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the dialog system and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network and or .

Messages to the contact center are addressed to the contact center . For example a customer may become a friend of the contact center on a social media network such as Facebook. The customer may then address a message to the contact center on Facebook. This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the contact center but to the contact center s Facebook page. In other embodiments the contact center receives messages not addressed to the contact center . For example the contact center can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the contact center . The contact center may also search for messages or content on the social media networks and or . Exemplary search criteria include customer name customer profession customer home address customer business address customer employer name customer educational or professional background customer hobby personal or business interests customer family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the contact center can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

Further the social media network API can also retrieve user context or other extended information from the social media networks and or . User context or other extended information can include historical posts historical tweets or other historical communications that a user may have received or sent. Further user context or other extended information can include but is not limited to account information for a user the user s followers or friends information on where historical messages were posted e.g. geo location time date what type of device etc. trending analysis that the social media network and or might provide the user etc. Thus the social media network API can retrieve information that is associated with a user and a social media network and or but not necessarily a part of a current message. The social media network API is a gatherer of data which can be used to determine a value for the user of the social media networks and or .

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the dialog system . However in other embodiments the message filter eliminates information from within the messages before the redacted messages are sent to the dialog system . For example a message from a social media network may have three or four interactions between two parties not associated with the contact center . Only one of the several postings may be pertinent to the dialog system . As such the message filter can eliminate or delete at least a portion of the other messages for the dialog system . Thus the dialog system receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted. The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network and or while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks and or . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the dialog system .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the dialog system . Therefore the message aggregator can interrelate or combine messages based on information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the dialog system . Thus the dialog system may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message or grouping of messages can be sent from the social media gateway to the dialog system .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from an agent in the contact center can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be in a general format and translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the agent may post the response directly to the social media network and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

An embodiment of the dialog system is shown in . The dialog system can include one or more components which may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The dialog system can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a FPGA or ASIC. The components contained within the dialog system can include a dialog core that is communication with a message history database an agent interface and a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the heuristic rules and dialogs database can be in communication with a dialog creator .

The dialog core can include one or more sub components. For example the dialog core can include a trend analysis component a text processing component and an analysis tools component . These components similar to the components for the dialog system can be hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The dialog core may step through the states of a dialog data structure. A dialog data structure can include a set of inputs and associated actions that can be taken which allow for the automatic and structured response to social media requests or messages. For example if a user asks for a manual the input of the text word manual can cause the dialog system in accordance with a dialog data structure to send information about one or more manuals. In turn the receiver of the response may respond in kind with the selection of a certain user manual. In which case the dialog data structure may then instruct the dialog core to send the user to a website where the user can retrieve an electronic version of the manual. As such the dialog data structure provides a script a dialog that allows the dialog core to automate the interaction between the contact center and a person. This automation eliminates the need for agent involvement in some situations and makes the contact center more efficient and more effective. Further the automation expands the contact center s ability to answer numerous messages from the plethora of postings on the numerous social media networks and or .

The dialog creator will create a dialog data structure that includes instructions for various states for each social media message that comes into the contact center . The first instruction might be to send the social media message to the trend analysis component then to the text processing component and then execute a query of a Customer Relationship Management CRM database to determine if this user has an existing order . A CRM database can be a database as described in conjunction with and can store information about customers or other data related to customer relations. Finally the dialog data structure might decide that the social media message should be sent to a human agent for processing. The instructions or node transitions are executed in the dialog core and make use of many different components that the dialog creator combines in any way the user desires to handle the social media messages. The dialog core can make use of the trend analysis component text processing component or other systems. The dialog core may also interface with a CRM system and or database external databases social media user information e.g. followers friends post history etc. from the social media site or other systems.

The trend analysis component is operable to analyze trends that occur between two or more messages received by the social media networks and or . The two messages can be from different social media networks so that the trend analysis component can identify trends across several different social media networks and or . Trends can include multiple occurrences of the same word or phrase multiple occurrences of a customer identity product name or service or multiple occurrences of some other information that might indicate a trend. Further the trend analysis component may be able to identify escalations in the occurrences of particular text identities or other information or may identify multiple occurrences over a period of time. The trend analysis component may also be able to apply one or more different algorithms to occurrences of information within the social media networks and or . For example the trend analysis component can match the number of occurrences of a phrase or word over a period of time and apply analysis to determine if the occurrences are increasing or decreasing over the period of time.

The text processing component is operable to analyze text of one or more messages from social media networks or . Some possible methods for text processing can include Regular Expression Latent Semantic Indexing LSI text part of speech tagging text clustering N Gram document analysis etc. The text processing rules or models may be stored in and or retrieved from a text processing rules database . The text processing rules database can be a database as described in conjunction with that stores rules or models used by the text processing component .

The text processing component can identify one or more occurrences of a particular text such as using one or more of the message fields referenced above in order to associate that social media message with one or more dialogs data structures in the heuristic rules and dialog database . For example the text processing component can look for the word manual in the social media message. If the word manual is found the text processing component may retrieve a dialog data structure from the heuristic rules and dialogs database and as the dialog data structure instructs communicate with the customer about one or more owner s manuals repair manuals or other types of manuals. In another example if the social media message includes the words buy sell price discount or other types of words that may indicate the user or customer wishes to buy a product the text processing component can retrieve one or more dialog data structures from the heuristic rules and dialogs database that can provide instruction to assist the customer in purchasing products or services from the enterprise.

The analysis tools component is operable to analyze response messages received back from an agent interface . In analyzing the agent s responses the analysis tools component can determine if the dialog data structures originally retrieved by the text processing component met the needs of the customer. In the analysis the agent may enter one or more items of information for the analysis tools component about the response and about how the response matched with the dialog data structures . The analysis tools component can review the response and determine if it was similar to the response provided by the dialog data structure . Thus the analysis tools component can provide information to the dialog core or the dialog creator to improve the dialog data structures that are included in the heuristic rules and dialogs database .

The message history database can be any database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . Thus the message history database can store data in data fields objects or other data structures to allow other systems to retrieve that information at a later time. The message history database can store previous messages or information about previous messages. Thus for example if the trend analysis component is analyzing several messages over a period of time the trend analysis component can retrieve information about previous messages associated with the current analysis from the message history database . As such the trend analysis component can better detect trends occurring at the social media networks and or . The data stored by the message history database can include the entire message or only a portion of the message and in some circumstances include metadata about the message s .

The heuristic rules and dialogs database can be any type of database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database can store information in data fields data objects and or any other data structures. An example of information stored within the heuristic rules and dialogs database is described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database stores rules and dialogs data structures that automate responses to received social media messages. The dialogs data structures control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media network and or . The dialogs or heuristic rules can be created by a dialog creator . Thus the dialog creator can interface with user input to receive information about dialogs. The user input is then used to form the states and responses for a dialog data structure.

An agent interface is a communication system operable to send action items to contact center agents in the contact center . An agent can be a person or other system that is operable to respond to certain questions or requests from a customer. For example the agent can be a person that has specialized expertise in a topic area such as technical support. The agent interface can format the social message into an action item and forward that message to one or more agents . The agent interface can also receive response s back from the agents . The information provided by the agent may be used by the dialog core to complete a response to the social media message. For example the information may classify the social media message e.g. sales service etc. . In other embodiments the response is a complete response to the social media message that can be posted to the social media network and or .

An embodiment of a dialog data structure is shown in . The dialog data structure can be stored in several different forms of databases such as relational databases flat files object oriented databases etc. Thus while the term data field or segment is used herein the data may be stored in an object an attribute of an object or some other form of data structure. Further the dialog data structure can be stored retrieved sent or received during the processing of dialogs by the dialog core or the dialog creator . The dialog data structure stores one or more items of information in one or more segments. The numeric identifiers e.g. etc. shown in can identify the one or more segments.

The dialog data structure can include one or more input segments such as input segment and input segment a rules segment and or a dialog script segment . Input segments and each include one or more inputs that may be required to associate a social media message with the dialog data structure . The inputs segments and may include a customer identity a respective customer type a text word a phrase or other information that indicates that the dialog data structure is associated with or pertaining to the social media messages.

The input segments and may also include certain trends that the trend analysis component can identify. As such if a trend is identified and associated with the inputs and or the dialog data structure can be retrieved and used by the dialog core . While there are only two input segments and shown in there may be more or fewer input segments associated with the dialog data structure as indicated by ellipses .

The rules segment can include one or more heuristic rules that either help with the association of the respective dialog data structure with the social media message or control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media customer. For example the rule can state that the dialog data structure applies only if the social media message includes input segment but not input segment . One skilled in the art will be able to identify other types of rules that may govern the association of the dialog data structure with the social media message. In other embodiments the rules segment states that if the social media message includes inputs and or then the dialog core should respond with a certain type of action.

Generally a dialog script segment includes a script of actions or responses that direct one or more other components such as the dialog core to conduct actions or send the responses. The dialog script segment can include the one or more states and corresponding responses or actions required by the dialog core . If the dialog script segment applies that is if the social media message is requesting a certain type of information the dialog script segment may include the one or more responses that the dialog core should communicate to respond to that social media message. The dialog script segment can also include a response and a pointer to another dialog script segment or another dialog data structure . Further the dialog script segment may have one or more actions that may be taken by another component after a secondary response is received by a customer. Thus the dialog script segment can direct or instruct an interaction to continue with a social media user over a period of time and over several interactions between the user and the contact center .

It should be noted that the dialog script segment can reference one or more other dialog data structures . Thus the dialog script segment can direct the dialog core to reference at least one other dialog data structure to further act on the social media message. Further the social media message can be subject of two or more dialog script segments and direct the dialog core to complete two dialog script segments on the social media message. Also dialog script segments may not be associated with a response but direct the dialog core to complete other actions such as populating databases or gathering information. A Social Media Manager SMM dialog engine and associated dialog scripts programs may play a role in identification of a trend and in modifications to ASR grammars used by the dialog engine for the IVR and or ASR systems along with associated dialog scripts programs. The SMM dialog script application may receive an indication that a new trend has been identified or an old trend retired. The SMM dialog engine may then extract vocabulary associated with the new trend or old trend with assistance of the text analysis engine and request an update to the IVR dialog script application and or ASR engine to include or remove the vocabulary identified with the trend. In another embodiment the SMM dialog may post the information and context to a separate module that would determine the proper insertion or removal of the identified vocabulary.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention are able to monitor and gather social media data items e.g. Tweets Facebook posts blog entries etc. . The social media data items are processed by recognizing information extracting information and or categorizing information. The processed information is then imported into the contact center as work items to be further processed and or analyzed by automated agents or by live agents. The resulting analyzed social media data has many applications as a dynamic data source.

Social media monitoring and analysis is used to detect trending topics sentiment spikes and other events interesting to an enterprises contact center. With this information the invention dynamically adjusts IVR grammars call flows and prompts for callers during the duration of the detected event. Adjustments may also include changing weights associated with potential matches to items in a lexicon adding items to the lexicon and or deleting items from the lexicon. ASR weighting is also adjusted to influence speech recognition results and routing of speech based self service applications.

Public social sources may include the following Twitter Facebook. LinkedIn YouTube Blogs RSS search sites Google Bing etc. etc. Any site where users may post information about themselves or comment about current events and make that information available for social networking purposes may be used as a source of social information.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention include a continuously running social media monitoring system that looks for characteristics such as trends new topics and sentimental spikes. This system will monitor all sites configured. Interactions are monitoring and processed in real time producing up to the minute analysis of the state of the configured topics. Furthermore any unknown topic sentiment or trend items are noted and produce similar notifications. The analysis may include a combination of standard methods in cloud based services and internal created analysis of characteristics including text processing part of speech analysis language identification classification methods location based information time based information etc.

Topics may be configured depending upon the monitored social media channels. For example in Twitter the social media gateway may be configured by the user to search for a set of terms e.g. an airline might put in their airline name initials Delta DL and terms like flight ticket plane tarmac etc. An SMM may allow a user to establish a context of when those words are relevant and when they are not relevant. To illustrate Delta may also be associated with Delta Faucets a college fraternity or sorority a river delta and so forth. The context of a potentially ambiguous search term like Delta is establish by selecting a set of related terms that must appear with a search term before a hit of the search term is considered to be relevant. For example for the search term Delta the system may be configured to search for related terms like airline flight ticket in context with Delta to distinguish tweets on airline topics from other topic domains.

An SMM may also have an ability to receive mention and direct message type tweets. An mention is a type of tweet that contain text such as where the is the name of another user on twitter. For example Delta Airlines may establish a twitter handle DeltaAssist to allow customers to communicate with Delta social media associates. Direct message tweets are a non public person to person communications channel that Twitter supports for users that are followers of each other. For both mention and direct message tweets the social media message is specifically addressed to the company so topic configuration should not be necessary because such tweets are assumed to be on topic. For other social media channels e.g. Facebook Linked In the company may establish a page as an anchor point for conversations. The content of the conversations on that page are assumed to be on the topics related to the company because e.g. one typically would not post a message about Delta Faucets on the Delta Airlines Facebook page. Spam filters may also be useful in ensuring that posts are on topic.

The notification interactions are configured to trigger action by the contact center IVR ASR systems. The action may include an initial reconfiguration of the IVR ASR systems and or provisioning a duration of the reconfiguration and or provisioning that the reconfiguration is intended to be of indefinite duration and or the notifying a user of unforeseen triggers or states. For example a power outage event may be designed or set up to trigger an action that will last until the action is manually reset. In another example a generic service disruption may have a duration of e.g. 60 minutes after an end of a trend is detected or 60 minutes after a sentiment spike has returned to normal levels.

An aspect of the invention is the handling of unknown events such as unanticipated critical service events that may occur. Monitoring social channels may provide notification of these events before traditional incoming channel calls are affected by these critical service events. Critical service events may trigger certain actions. First the IVR ASR system may be notified of an unknown service event triggering some default processing in response. Second a notification trigger may be sent to notify an appropriate workflow chain to analyze and deal with the new event. This may include manual changes to the IVR ASR systems both in monitoring and in the contact center.

For example if a weather event or natural disaster occurs e.g. a tornado outbreak an earthquake a volcanic ash eruption etc. there may be unanticipated travel disruption throughout a region. Early notification through social channels would provide early warning of an increased call volume to come.

Once an IVR ASR system has received the notification information the system may dynamically adjust its user interface by adding deleting changing available options menus prompts grammar processing workflow i.e. the sequence in which a work item is handled in a contact center or adding deleting entries in an ASR lexicon etc. in order to accommodate the events as detected from the changing social state i.e. from changes in social information posted on social networking sites. For example the notifications may affect a single prompt may cause a change in order of individual menu items within a list may cause new menu item to be added to accommodate the new event and so forth. In addition the system may be configured to activate an entire dialog module that replaces or augments large parts of the response routing system. In another embodiment in accordance with the present invention only back end routing parameters are changed with no difference visible to the caller. Back end routing parameters may refer to data that a work flow engine or underlying call routing handling switch may use to make an assignment of a call to a specific resource e.g. contact center agent IVR etc. within a contact center. For example a trend might place callers with volcano issues into a different queue than they might have gone into based on their CRM demographic. Work flows use data to make routing determinations and the data used for those routing decisions may be modified by an identified trend.

An ASR engine may also receive the notification information and may dynamically change weights associated with candidate matches i.e. candidate matching words or phrases to detected speech. Speech recognition often operates based upon a list of probable results. Current events events and trends deduced or inferred from social media changes the probability that certain words would be spoken. Embodiments in accordance with the present invention may use the notification information to adjust or weight up or down the probability of match of a spoken word to a word in an ASR dictionary.

For example suppose it is known through social media channels that there exists a condition such as a snowstorm in a major city. Words associated with a snowstorm or its effects may temporarily become more common. For example callers to a travel reservation calling center may speak certain words more often such as change reservation or reschedule or snow and so forth. More generally if a list of the top n e.g. top three matches to a particular spoken word is determined based upon a calculated correlation or other method for matching and the list is presented in descending percentage of match all without the benefit of social media information then a match may be selected which is not necessarily the best match as long as it is within a predetermined percentage of the best match and as long as the selected match further positively correlates with a word mined from the social media channel.

Alternatively the data mined from the social media information may be used to adjust e.g. boost up or down the calculated correlation weighting or other method for matching the spoken word to produce a combined weighting. The selected word would then be selected as the top match based on the combined weighting.

An ASR system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention may provide greater control by the system over the prompt and response interactions with a user. The system may provide an adaptable platform that provides flexibility in response to data mined from social media sources or in response to voice responses from users. For example in a user initiative dialogue ASR system a user calling in may be provided with an open ended greeting when the call is answered by the ASR system such as How may I help you A lexicon used to recognize utterances e.g. speech from users may be augmented or a supplemental lexicon may be modified and used together with a core lexicon to add words related to topics whose interest and usage is trending higher in social media channels.

Additions to a lexicon recognized based upon data mining of social media channels may attempt to estimate persistence of the newly recognized words and phrases. For example low persistence words and phrases such as those related to a transient and low recurring event or phenomenon e.g. weather event earthquake volcanic ash etc. may be expected to occur less frequently as the transient phenomenon changes from being a present event to being a historical event. However high persistence words and phrases such as those related to a non transient or permanent e.g. renaming of an airport or high recurring event e.g. traffic jams etc. that may be expected to be encountered in the future even if presently the frequency of usage of those words and phrases may decline below a predetermined threshold or even if a certain amount of time has passed. Such high persistence words and phrases may be retained in the lexicon in order to reduce mismatches during a startup or training period if those words and phrases start trending higher again.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention provide a social media engine that monitors social media channels for subject matter in the domain of interest e.g. air traffic for words and phrases related to the domain of interest such as trips etc. in order to find out whether there are new topics and therefore new vocabularies that are being used by the public which may be added to a lexicon used by the ASR system.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention may also adjust weighting factors for words and phrases that are related to topics data mined from social media channels. For example if the word volcano or phrase volcanic ash or ash cloud is detected more frequently in social media channels then an embodiment of a system may add to the lexicon or provide greater weighting to related words and phrases such as rebook reservations flight delays hotel weather forecast and so forth. When such words and phrases are encountered the actions taken by some embodiments may be to map actions to existing options in the ASR system. In other embodiments new routing branches in the ASR system may be added or removed to handle changes in the types of inquiries based upon the trend of topics data mined from social media channels.

Embodiments may adjust a recognition grammar. Recognition grammar is a set of word patterns that informs an ASR system what to expect a human to say. Embodiments add words and phrases to the recognition grammar based upon social media channels and may also later remove or reduce the weighting in the recognition grammar of the added words and phrases as their usage in social media channels declines.

Embodiments may analyze a structure of the words and phrases detected from social media channels. For example detecting the words ash and volcanic in isolation in the social media channels is a result that has a certain level of importance and may trigger a relatively minor change in the response of the ASR system. However detecting a more specific phrase such as volcanic ash may trigger a relatively greater change in the response of the ASR system because it is more specific and therefore deemed to be of a higher level of importance. When users who use more specific phrases are more likely to refer to a known kind of event and may therefore trigger a more specific change in the response of the ASR system. Therefore there are at least two aspects to what can be learned from the line of social media channel data trends. First the grammar aspects i.e. the structure of ASR may be changed in response to the social media channel data. Second new words and phrases are added to the lexicon.

As a condition triggering the change in the response of the ASR system ebbs or is ameliorated the weighting adjustment can be lessened. A shaped sliding window e.g. bell curve hamming window triangular etc. may be useful for calculating a magnitude of time based changes to the weighting adjustment. In some embodiments words or terms added to a lexicon which are not expected to be permanent additions may be removed once their usage in social media channels has fallen below a predetermined threshold for at least a predetermined length of time. Once the condition has essentially passed normal ASR operation would resume.

At step an ASR engine matches the speech signals received in step to words from the lexicon as updated in step in order to produce a list of one or more candidate matches. The list of candidate matches may further have associated with each candidate match a score percentage or other indicator of a goodness of fit generically a score of the speech signals received in step to each of the matching words and or phrases from the updated lexicon. At step the list of matching words or phrases may be adjusted based upon the results of words and phrases data mined in step . For example if the matching words and or phrases include a score the score may be adjusted up or down or the ranking of matching words or phrases within the list may be otherwise adjusted. If the score of a matching word and or phrase from step is within a predetermined limit of a score of a next higher matching word and or phrase from the core lexicon the rank order of the matching word and or phrase from step may be promoted higher.

Environment further includes a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation SIP TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server . In this example server is shown as a web server and server is shown as an application server. The web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including SIP servers HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The environment may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s and or may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the server and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web file server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the web server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and web file server and or web application server may function as the system devices or components described in .

The environment may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. The database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. The database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10i that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. The computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the computer system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention system may be directed to chat and or IM dialog via a system directed structured dialog. For such embodiments trend terms may be mapped into existing call flow paths in the IVR and or ASR application by the methods presented herein.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the present invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof. It is understood that various embodiments described herein may be utilized in combination with any other embodiment described without departing from the scope contained herein. Further the foregoing description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. Certain exemplary embodiments may be identified by use of an open ended list that includes wording to indicate that the list items are representative of the embodiments and that the list is not intended to represent a closed list exclusive of further embodiments. Such wording may include e.g. etc. such as for example and so forth and the like etc. and other wording as will be apparent from the surrounding context.

Moreover the claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. In addition use of the term means in any claim is intended to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 6 and any claim without the word means is not so intended.

