---

title: Teeter-restraint device for wind turbines
abstract: A wind turbine system includes a shaft, a rotor for driving the shaft, and a first fluidic teeter control assembly. The rotor includes a first blade engaged to the shaft by a hub, and has a degree of freedom to pivot relative to the shaft. A first teeter angle is defined between an instantaneous position of the first blade and a time-averaged plane of rotation of the first blade. The first fluidic teeter control assembly is engaged between the rotor and the shaft for providing a first dynamic teeter restraining force as a function of the first teeter angle and a fluidic resistance. The first dynamic restraining force is relatively low when the first teeter angle is within a first teeter operation range, and the first dynamic restraining force is higher when the first teeter angle is outside that range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08647061&OS=08647061&RS=08647061
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08647061
owner_city: Rockford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 899 422 filed Sep. 6 2007 and titled TEETER RESTRAINT DEVICE FOR WIND TURBINES .

The present invention relates to wind turbines and more particularly to teeter control systems for wind turbines.

Wind turbines for converting wind energy to electrical energy typically comprise a rotor with one or more blades and a hub. The rotor is attached to and supported by a main shaft receiving the rotational power from the rotor and transmitting this power to a generator. The most popular type of large scale e.g. multi megawatt wind turbines orient the main shaft in a horizontal direction thereby making the rotational plane of the rotor lie in essentially a vertical direction.

Most contemporary horizontal axis wind turbines use a three bladed rotor and fixedly attach the rotor to the main shaft. Accordingly bending loads on the blades i.e. loads in a direction substantially perpendicular to a plane of rotation of the rotor are transmitted to the main shaft. These bending loads originate from uneven wind distribution over the swept area of the rotor and due to gyroscopic forces associated with the mass of the rotor when the rotor and a nacelle are yawed away from the wind direction. The shaft and supporting structure is thereby built according to the weight and strength required to support these loads.

Since the early 1930 s some large scale wind turbines have employed rotors with one or two blades with the distinction that the rotor is attached to the shaft through a pin called a teeter pin which allows the rotor to move perpendicular to a time averaged rotational plane of the rotor thereby eliminating the transmission of bending loads to the main shaft when the teetering motion is unconstrained .

An angle between the rotor blades at a given moment and the time averaged plane of rotation essentially a vertical plane is called the teeter angle . During normal operation teeter angle variation is desirable the teeter angle varies within a certain range which can be denoted as a standard operating range and within that range changes in response to wind shear which produces unequal wind velocity over the rotor swept area and turbulence and in response to gyroscopic forces produced by yawing the rotor into and away from a current wind direction. Due to a lag between load and displacement maximum teeter angle values for a two bladed rotor typically occur when a rotor azimuthal position is essentially horizontal i.e. parallel to the ground . At and around this horizontal rotor azimuthal position there is no chance of collision between a blade and the tower i.e. a blade tower strike . Only when the rotor is in a vertical azimuthal position does a blade pass in the vicinity of the tower. Consequently the acceptable range of teeter angle excursions depends on the azimuthal position of the rotor.

Teetering motion of the rotor reduces bending forces on the rotor that would otherwise be present and would cause fatigue in the blades hub and main shaft. There are two limits imposed on the teeter angle. The first limit is imposed by the mechanical structures at the rotor to main shaft junction. The other more constraining limit is due to blade tower collisions. That is if the teeter angle increases past a certain value as a blade is passing near the wind turbine support tower there is risk of catastrophic blade tower collision. To avoid this type of event most turbines with teetering rotors include a teeter restraint mechanism that prevents unwanted excursions of the teeter angle.

Two types of teeter restraint mechanisms are found in the prior art. One which is called the contact type consists of some flexible material such as an elastomer or a metal spring that becomes compressed once the rotor teeter angle exceeds a predetermined amount and contact between the rotor and the teeter restraint mechanism occurs. The restoring force imparted by this type of contact restraint mechanism onto the rotor is quite large and impulsive in nature. These restraining loads are undesirable because they promote fatigue and catastrophic damage thereby necessitating increased strength and weight in the rotor and nacelle structure. Furthermore this type of restraint mechanism is independent from the rotor azimuthal position therefore it provides unnecessary and damaging restraining force irrespective of rotor azimuthal position and hence generates restraining forces even in the absence of any risk of blade tower strike.

The other type of known teeter restraint mechanism uses a hydraulic cylinder regulated by a control system to provide a non impulsive force restraining teeter motion. With this type of mechanism teetering motion moves the piston within the cylinder thereby displacing hydraulic fluid into a circuit external to the cylinder. The circuit connects at least two cylinders so that the fluid ejected by one cylinder is accepted into the other. Restriction of teeter motion is generated by making the hydraulic fluid pass through a constriction or orifice located in this circuit. Because the pressure loss across the orifice increases with flow rate this mechanism provides a teeter restraint force that is proportional to and only to the teeter angular velocity rather than to the teeter angle itself. This behavior is undesired because most often maximal angular velocity occurs as the rotor crosses a teeter angle of zero degrees. Therefore this second type of teeter restraint mechanism places a large often maximal restraining force on the rotor when the rotor is at zero teeter angle well within the standard operating range and precisely when the possibility of tower strike is minimal. This restraining force is cyclic occurring at every rotor revolution and produces an unnecessary and damaging e.g. fatigue inducing load on the rotor and the main shaft. Furthermore large and beneficial teeter angular velocities also occur during nacelle yaw maneuvers wherein the unconstrained teeter angle variation prevents large gyroscopic forces from reaching the main shaft. The second type of mechanism device resists and fights against these rapid and beneficial teetering motions. In summary the second type of mechanism imposes a restraining force on the rotor in conditions when free teeter motion is desired including teeter angles inside the standard operating range and teeter angle excursions during yaw maneuvers thereby reducing if not eliminating the fundamental benefits of the teetering rotor design.

In addition known teeter restraint mechanisms lack means to prevent any teetering motion at desired times. For example prior art teeter restraint mechanisms do not allow teetering motion to be blocked during start up and during parked conditions when the rotor is not rotating.

A wind turbine system includes a shaft a rotor for driving the shaft and a first fluidic teeter control assembly. The rotor includes a first blade engaged to the shaft by a hub and has a degree of freedom to pivot relative to the shaft. A first teeter angle is defined between an instantaneous position of the first blade and a time averaged plane of rotation of the first blade. The first fluidic teeter control assembly is engaged between the rotor and the shaft for providing a first dynamic teeter restraining force as a function of the first teeter angle and a fluidic resistance. The first dynamic restraining force is relatively low when the first teeter angle is within a first teeter operation range and the first dynamic restraining force is higher when the first teeter angle is outside that range.

In general the present invention provides a fluidic teeter control system for a wind turbine that provides a dynamic teeter restraint force that varies as a function of teeter angle. This allows relatively low magnitude teeter restraint forces to be provided within a first range of teeter angles and larger magnitude teeter restraint forces to be provided outside that first range of teeter angles. This variation of magnitude of the teeter restraint force as a function of teeter angle can be implemented in different ways such as with varying depth grooves on an inner diameter wall of a hydraulic piston cylinder or with a hollow rod that can selectively create a fluid passage across a hydraulic piston in a cylinder. Such teeter restraint forces can be provided passively which permits embodiments that lessen wear fatigue and maintenance concerns. Optionally an external fluid circuit with a variable resistance valve can be provided to actively control teeter resistance force as a function of a signal from an azimuthal position sensor in order to further help reduce a risk of blade tower strikes. These and other features of various embodiments of the present invention are explained in greater detail below.

As the rotor rotates a time averaged rotational plane essentially a vertical plane is defined by the sweep of the rotor about an axis of rotation . The orientation of the rotor in the time averaged rotational plane is shown in in phantom as rotor . The teeter pin allows the rotor to move relative to the time averaged rotational plane . At any given moment a teeter angle is defined between the blades and of the rotor and the time averaged rotational plane . The teeter angle can vary within a maximum teeter range i.e. the allowed teeter angle excursion that can be accommodated by the rotor to main shaft structure for example plus or minus 8 with respect to the time averaged rotational plane but typically varies within a range denoted as a standard operating range for example plus or minus 3 with respect to the time averaged rotational plane . Changes in the teeter angle can occur in response to turbulence wind shear which produces unequal wind velocity over a rotor swept area and gyroscopic forces produced by yawing the rotor and nacelle about the yaw axis into and away from a current wind direction. During normal operation variation of the teeter angle is desirable reducing the transmission of bending loads to the main shaft when the teetering motion is unconstrained .

In order to control teetering motion of the rotor one or more teeter control assemblies are provided. In the embodiment illustrated in a first teeter control assembly and a second teeter control assembly are connected between the rotor and the main shaft . Each teeter control assembly and structurally joints at least one blade or or hub to a point fixed relative to the main shaft . As shown in with respect to the second teeter control assembly each teeter control assembly and is connected to the shaft with a teeter restraint pin located at a distance Lfrom the axis of rotation of the shaft . In the illustrated embodiment the teeter control assemblies and are connected to an internal cavity of the shaft .

A change in the teeter angle of the rotor will cause the piston to move along the piston axis . Inner diameter walls of the tube contain a number of grooves that allow the passage of working fluid axially with respect to the piston axis allowing passage of working fluid between a first volume in front of the piston head and a second volume behind the piston that is from one side of the piston head to the other. The number of grooves can vary as desired for particular applications. In one embodiment the grooves are aligned essentially parallel to the piston axis . Typically the grooves are substantially equally spaced from each other. The grooves change depth i.e. radial depth with respect to the piston axis as function of axial location. In particular the grooves can be deepest near a axial midpoint of the tube and shallowest at the axial extremities of the tube . The grooves can all extend substantially an entire interior axial length of the tube . In one embodiment different grooves can have different axial lengths.

For instance when the piston head is located near the axial midpoint of the tube an axial displacement of the piston caused by a change in teeter angle will cause working fluid to pass through the grooves from the first volume on one side of the piston head to the second volume on the other side of the piston head or vice versa. Because the grooves are relatively deep at this central axial location resistance encountered by working fluid passing through the grooves is small thereby creating only minimal restraining force on the piston and allowing essentially free teeter operation within the standard operating range .

As the teeter angle of the rotor exceeds the standard operating range the restraint forces raise smoothly and monotonically with teeter angle . The teeter control assembly thus allows essentially unconstrained free teeter motion when the teeter angle is within the standard operating range and provides a smoothly increasing restraining force at increasing teeter angles outside the standard operating range . When the piston head is located near the axial extremities of the tube the relatively shallow depth of the grooves creates a relatively large resistance to the passage of working fluid therethrough thereby creating a pressure differential across the piston head and hence a relatively large restraining force.

The particular relationship between teeter restraint force and teeter angle can vary as desired for particular application. For instance the configuration of the grooves influences the relationship between teeter restraint force and teeter angle . However a suitable relationship can generally be established as follows. Integrating the area under a curve plotted on a graph of teeter restraint force versus teeter angle e.g. the curve shown in the graph of will obtain a total force value that can be multiplied by the time over which the restraint force is applied to obtain a value of the impulse provided by the teeter restraint assembly . The value of the impulse provided by the teeter restraint assembly should be sufficient to stop teetering motion of the rotor which will depend upon the mass and teetering velocity of the rotor . Expected teetering velocities of the rotor experimentally known or determined can be used along with a known or measured mass of the rotor to anticipate suitable relationships between teeter restraint force and teeter angle for particular applications.

It is well known in the art that the pressure loss of fluid e.g. the working fluid through an orifice depends both on the orifice size as discussed above in relation to the depth of the grooves and to fluid velocity. It follows then that restraining force provided by the teeter control assembly increases with teeter angular velocity once the teeter angle exceeds the standard operating range . This velocity dependence is desirable because high teeter angular velocities at high teeter angles would otherwise increase the likelihood of a collision between one of the blades and and the support tower i.e. a blade tower strike .

All teetering motion including that in the standard operating range produces working fluid flow within the teeter control assembly . This flow is unavoidably affected by fluid viscosity hence is unavoidably accompanied by some degree of energy dissipation into heat. Consequently during operation of the wind turbine system the working fluid will reach a steady temperature above ambient. The working fluid temperature is determined by the ratio of energy dissipation to convective and conductive heat transfer away from the surface of the tube and the piston shaft . It should be noted that the teeter control assembly is in rotational motion in unison with the rotor hence the teeter control assembly receives an essentially constant flow of relatively cool atmospheric air that transports heat away from the cylinder through convection. In order to enhance this heat dissipation cooling fins not shown on the exterior of the tube or an external working fluid cooling circuit not shown can be employed to help further reduce working fluid temperature.

A thermal condition controller can help regulate working fluid temperature. For instance for wind turbine operations in extreme cold weather regions a working fluid pre heater e.g. an electric heater can be optionally included with the teeter control assembly see for use while the wind turbine system is stopped to bring the working fluid to operating temperature the pre heater is shown only schematically for simplicity . Once the turbine system commences operation the energy dissipation in the working fluid essentially can maintain the operating temperature without the need for added heat from the pre heater . Alternatively or in addition a fluid cooling apparatus e.g. a conventional refrigeration unit could be used like the pre heater to help control working fluid temperature by actively removing thermal energy from the working fluid as desired.

The most ideal behavior of the wind turbine system is to regulate the teeter restraining force based on both the teeter angle of the rotor as described above as well as an azimuthal position of the rotor . The azimuthal position is the angular orientation of the rotor about the axis of rotation . In particular the two bladed rotor at azimuthal angles near zero and 180 corresponding to a horizontal orientation of the blades and of the rotor has no chance of blade tower strike and the restraining force should be reduced in magnitude with respect to the restraining force produced when the blades and of the rotor are in a vertical position i.e. azimuthal angles of 90 and 270 . Relatively large restraining forces should be generated by the teeter control assembly only when maximum teeter angles of the maximum teeter range are approached. To accommodate a change in magnitude of restraining force as function of rotor azimuthal position an alternative embodiment of the present invention includes a means for sensing the azimuthal position of the rotor and a means for adjusting the restraining force resistance in response to the sensed azimuthal angle of the rotor .

Fluid resistance of the valve can be varied as function of the azimuthal angle of the rotor as follows. When the azimuthal angle is near 90 and 270 corresponding to a vertical position of the blades and of the rotor the valve is shut thereby making the teeter control assembly A respond as described above with respect to the teeter control assembly . In particular with the valve shut the resistance to motion of the piston head comes solely from the passage of working fluid through the grooves not shown in for clarity in the tube . When the azimuthal angle of the rotor is near zero or 180 the valve is opened allowing passage of working fluid from the first volume in front of the piston head to the second volume behind the piston head or vice versa and thereby eliminating most of the fluid resistance to motion of the piston . In an alternative embodiment of the teeter control assembly A the grooves can be omitted and teeter resistance provided solely by the external fluid circuit . In such an alternative embodiment a teeter angle sensor not shown can be used in conjunction with the azimuthal sensor .

Another concern with wind turbine operation is a need to block i.e. prevent or substantially reduce teetering motion of the rotor at selected times. For instance during start up and parked conditions it is desired to block teetering motion of the rotor .

The rod is arranged coaxially with a piston axis B and includes an opening to an internal cavity . The rod can rotate about the piston axis B but is fixed relative to the tube B to prevent translational movement the axial direction. The opening varies in width along the piston axis B. In the illustrated embodiment the rod is substantially cylindrical in shape and the opening is rhombic in shape.

The piston shaft B has an internal cavity that extends in a generally axial direction and the piston head B has a central opening that adjoins the internal cavity . Further a lateral opening is formed in the piston shaft B that is in fluid communication with the internal cavity . The lateral opening can have a rectangular shape. As the piston B moves within the tube B a portion of the rod can pass through the central opening in the piston head B and into the internal cavity in the piston shaft B. The piston B is rotationally fixed and can only move linearly along the piston axis B with respect to the tube B.

The rod can be rotated about the piston axis B between an engaged position that permits controlled teetering motion and a disengaged position that blocks teetering motion. is a cross sectional view of the teeter control assembly B with the rod rotated to an engaged position that permits controlled teetering motion. In the engaged position the opening in the rod and the lateral opening in the piston shaft B are aligned and the assembly B allows working fluid to flow between the first volume in front of the piston head B and the second volume behind the piston head B. In particular working fluid from the first volume can pass through a portion of the opening and into the internal cavity in the rod . Working fluid can pass axially through the internal cavity through the opening in the piston head B then back through the opening in the rod and through the lateral opening in the piston shaft B to the second volume an exemplary fluid flow is designated by arrow in . is a cross sectional view of the teeter control assembly B with the rod rotated to a disengaged position that blocks teetering motion. In the disengaged position the rod is rotated about the piston axis B such that the opening in the rod and the lateral opening in the piston shaft B are not aligned. In particular this essentially prevents working fluid from passing between the first and second volumes which prevents the piston B from moving and thus prevents teetering motion.

The width or circumferential dimension of the opening in the rod varies along the piston axis B with a maximum width at approximately its midpoint and less widths toward either end such that the fluid resistance to working fluid movement can vary depending on the position of the piston B. In other words the teetering restraint force can vary as a function of teeter angle . The teeter control assembly B thus provides an alternative means for varying teeter restraint force as a function of teeter angle while also providing a way to affirmatively block all teetering motion at selected times.

Furthermore the rod can be rotated such that some overlap between the opening in the rod and the lateral opening in the piston shaft B is provided but less than full alignment. This also allows fluid resistance to be controlled by rotation of the rod in addition to control due to axial movement of the piston B relative to the rod .

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance features described with respect to one embodiment such as azimuthal sensors variable resistance valves and working fluid thermal condition controllers can be readily adapted to other embodiments of the present invention.

