---

title: Method of automated demodulation and classification of phase-shift-keying signals using hysteretic differential zero-crossing time samples
abstract: An automatic zero-crossing signal demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying unknown modulation in a signal identifies unknown modulation in a signal, demodulates differential phase shift keying signals and automatically recognizes certain phase shift keying signals. This is accomplished by eliminating unknown term fin differential phase estimation, introducing a symbol rate tracking mechanism, applying hysteresis nonlinearity to eliminate phase shaping effect and using weighted average to estimate phase difference. Better estimates are accomplished by using hysteretic nonlinear function to detect zero-crossing points in eliminating false detecting of zero-crossing points caused by additive noise, and calculating differential phase without directly using center frequency to simplify estimation process. Present invention also encompasses automated zero-crossing signal surveillance demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying unknown modulation in a signal and method for automatic zero-crossing demodulation and classification of unknown modulation signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08472564&OS=08472564&RS=08472564
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08472564
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120402
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without payment to me of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates generally to the field of phase shift keying signals and more particularly to the field of automated modulation classification of phase shift keying signals with a zero crossing time sample technique.

Automated modulation classification of signals is an extremely useful technique for both military and commercial communications equipment. In non cooperative communications such as signal surveillance and some cognitive radio applications the modulation scheme is unknown and has to be estimated and classified automatically. Continuing research and development has led to steady progress and advances in automated modulation classification techniques over the years. However these techniques still suffer from a number of difficulties and limitations when being implemented in non cooperative environments in the field because of unknown parameters such as signal and noise power carrier frequency and pulse shape and so on. Those skilled in the art recognize that prior art signal classification equipment techniques and methods need to be more robust in order to perform adequately in harsh environmental conditions.

One potentially promising technique is the zero crossing approach which should be relatively simple to implement but to date has not yet been successfully accomplished. Recognizing phase shift keying PSK with a zero crossing approach has only met with limited success.

A brief examination of the zero crossing approach in signal repetition rate estimation points to a few of the most noteworthy difficulties with that approach. If we denote f k k 1 2 . . . as a digitized intermediate frequency IF copy of an unknown phase shifted keying signal at time t k then denote a subset of t k as x 1 x 2 . . . which are zero crossing samples of f k i.e. f x i 0 for all i and also denote 1 2 . . . as phase symbols of f k then one can estimate the relative phase of f k at the msymbol according to this expression 

This prior art approach suffers from a number of drawbacks. The drawbacks include the need to know the center frequency faccurately in Equation 1 in order to estimate m and the need to conduct symbol estimation and symbol timing precisely in order to align the starting point x j and ending point x j L 1 within the desired symbol time period in order to reliably detect zero crossing points. Another drawback is the lack of reliability in detecting zero crossing points due to the additive noise. If the zero crossing points x i t a are not detected due to noise but points x i 1 t b are still detected in spite of the noise then x i t b will be mistakenly used in Equation 1 and consequently all further phase estimates after time t a will also be incorrect. The prior art approach also requires a square pulse shape and if a square pulse shape is not available then the zero crossing points near the pulse edges will be dominated by noise and cause faulty detections. These kinds of limitations of the zero crossing approach for signal repetition rate estimation devices and techniques along with long standing prior art difficulties in modulated classification such as questionable strength in the face of harsh environmental conditions have created a long felt need for a zero crossing point estimating technique that is faster more robust and more accurate than current zero crossing modulation classification techniques. Up until now there is no available zero crossing demodulation and classification approach that overcomes the long standing limitations shortcomings and disadvantages of the prior art equipment and techniques.

In order to overcome the long standing prior art drawbacks caused by need to solve the unknown center frequency f achieve perfect pulse timing estimation the need for a square pulse shape and the excessive sensitivity to noise in detecting zero crossing points the present invention provides automatic zero crossing signal demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying an unknown modulation in a signal. Despite the fact that the zero crossing technique would be relatively simple to implement in classifying signals and is not a baseband constellation based system the zero crossing approach has not yet been successfully used for classifying signals.

Zero crossing or level crossing time sampling has often been used in numerous electronic applications such as frequency estimation frequency drift estimation angular velocity estimation and signal modulation classification. The term zero crossing point refers to the point where a periodic waveform varies from a positive value to a negative one and crosses the zero value in the process. This means that a waveform with only a positive or a negative value has no zero crossing point but if it varies up or down it may cross a given non zero level which is also known as the level crossing point. Zero crossing time estimation takes the average of the time differences between two zero crossing points of a periodic function.

The present invention fulfills the long felt need for a more rapid robust and accurate estimating technique than prior art zero crossing estimation techniques by providing automated demodulation and classification zero crossing estimation devices and methods. This invention overcomes prior art problems by eliminating the unknown term fin differential phase estimation introducing a symbol rate tracking mechanism applying hysteresis nonlinearity to eliminate the phase shaping effect and using a weighted average to estimate the phase difference.

It is an object of this invention to provide an automated demodulation and classification zero estimating device for unknown modulation signals.

It is a further object of this invention to provide an automatic zero crossing signal demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying an unknown modulation in a signal that classifies and demodulates differential phase shift keying signals and automatically recognizes certain phase shift keying signals.

It is yet a further object of this invention to provide methods for automatically classifying the zero crossing point by demodulating differential phase shift keying signals and automatically recognizing certain phase shift keying signals.

These and other objects are advantageously accomplished with the present invention providing an automated demodulation and classification zero estimating device comprising a sample delay differential phase estimator symbol timing circuit phase histogram histogram templates and PSK modulation. Better estimates are accomplished by using the hysteretic nonlinear function to detect the zero crossing points in eliminating the false detecting of the zero crossing points caused by the additive noise and calculating differential phase without directly using the center frequency to simplify the estimation process.

This invention s automated demodulation and classification zero estimating approach demodulates M ary differential phase shift keying M DPSK signals and automatically recognizes M DPSK and M ary phase shift keying M PSK signals. More rapid robust and accurate estimates are achieved because the innovative techniques of the present invention eliminate the need to accurately estimate the center frequency pulse shape and pulse timing and they are therefore simpler and more rapid than prior art approaches. This invention s devices and methods advantageously optimize and improve the user s ability to estimate and classify unknown modulation schemes which the prior art has not yet achieved with non cooperative communications. The present invention also encompasses an automated zero crossing signal surveillance demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying an unknown modulation in a signal and a method for automatic zero crossing demodulation and classification of an unknown modulation signal

The automated demodulation estimating device of the present invention overcomes the problems disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art by eliminating the unknown term fin differential phase estimation introducing a symbol rate tracking mechanism applying hysteresis nonlinearity to eliminate the additive noise effect and using a weighted average to estimate the phase difference in automated demodulation devices and methods. In accordance with the present invention the digitized and band pass filtered intermediate frequency IF signal f k is defined as 

Referring now to the drawings is a conceptual block diagram depicting a basic embodiment of the automatic zero crossing signal demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying an unknown modulation in a signal of the present invention comprising a normalized digitized IF signal f k that is simultaneously sent to a sample delay circuit and symbol timing circuit . The delayed lower branch of the IF signal f k is fed to a differential phase estimator . The symbol timing circuit controls symbol timing and the overall estimation process. The symbol timing circuit sends a symbol timing input to the differential phase estimator . The differential phase estimator demodulates the signals by DPSK with the differential phase shift keying means and provides a differential phase output . If the symbol is coded by DPSK then the symbol will be determined directly by the differential phase estimator . An estimated phased histogram is formed by a means for generating an estimated phase histogram to show the statistical patterns of the phase shift keying or DPSK modulation types and to determine types of modulation by comparing the histogram of an unknown signal to the known histogram templates stored in a histogram storage module . A means for histogram comparison performs automated modulation recognition by correlating the estimated phased histogram with stored templates from the histogram template module in order to find the best match. Afterwards the histogram comparison means provides a comparison output to a modulation type module . The signal can also be sent directly to the PSK demodulation circuit .

The symbol timing circuit may be implemented by using an existing algorithm or the circuit depicted in . Referring now to there is illustrated an example of the symbol timing circuit . The normalized digitized IF signal f k is converted to give an absolute function value that is fed through a narrow band pass filter and phase lock loop to obtain a sinusoidal signal g k according to this expression 

Referring now to the square waveform output g k is represented by two logic states H and L depending upon the polarity of the sinusoidal waveform g k . The average number of zero crossing points over Lnumber of symbols is defined as follows 

In r m 1 r m and r m 1 are time indices of rising edges of the signal and d m 1 d m and d m 1 are time indices of the signal s falling edges. depicts a function of the relay nonlinear converter . The logic state H will be given if the input value of the converter is larger than or equal to zero and the logic state L will be given if the input value is less than zero.

Referring back to the differential phase estimator is implemented by calculating the time difference between two zero crossing samples where the center frequency fis unknown. The IF signal f k is converted to a rectangular waveform f k with a time delay of sin by using a hysteresis nonlinear converter as is shown in FIG S and . The threshold square root over N can be chosen based on the noise power N. A time delay dis inserted into the signal path so that the zero crossing points of the timing waveform g k will be synchronized with the edges of the symbol pulses of the signal f k . The desired time delay is calculated according to the formula 

Starting with the trigger logic circuit and resetting all the trigger logic outputs to L when both the rectangular waveform f k and digitized RF signal g k are in logic state H the trigger signal of trigger logic circuit will be logic state H and the output of the trigger logic circuit will be b H and will feed back to the input ato lock the signal of trigger logic circuit to H. When both rectangular waveform f k and digitized RF signal g k are in logic state L the signal will be logic state L and the output b L will feed back to the input ato lock the signal to L which results in the trigger signal being sent to a number of zero crossing counters .

In operation the zero crossing counter is reset to zero by the raising edge of the trigger signal logic state H and starts to count the number of clock pulses s m 1 . When the output of the zero crossing counter is larger than zero the zero crossing counter Hit port of outputs a logic state H to enable an additional trigger logic circuit and also count the number of zero crossings s m 2 . Therefore the number of zero crossings u m n n 1 2 . . . N is counted in order shifted weighted and added to form the normalized differential phase output z m .

Referring back to the histogram of the normalized differential phased outputs z m m 1 2 . . . L can be calculated using standard statistical approaches. M histogram peaks will be observed for M PSK and M DPSK modulated signals and one peak will be observed for a carrier. Those peaks are used for recognizing different modulation types. The histogram templates from the histogram storage module are used for automatic modulation recognition by correlating normalized differential phases to known templates. The histogram templates may be formed with the current method described by Hsue and Soliman and should then be normalized using the factor K. It is noted that if an automated histogram normalization procedure is used the calculation of Kcan be omitted. The histogram of the unknown signal will be correlated to Nnumber of known templates to result in Nnumber of correlation scores. Since each score is associated with a known modulation type the highest score indicates a recognition result. A threshold is chosen to exclude the low confidence results. If a score is below the threshold the classification is reported as failure.

The present invention also includes a software embodiment for automatic demodulation and classification of phase shift keying signals with hysteretic differential zero crossing time samples. is a flow chart depicting the operation of this software embodiment. Referring now to for a given N there is depicted a means for inputting known variables represented by box where values for the L weight w N and symbol frequency fare given as known inputs. A first software calculating module represented by Box calculates the average number of zero crossing points per symbol k. Notice that if an automated histogram normalization procedure is used the calculation of k is not needed. Box represents a means for generating a timing signal g k which is then used in an index determining module represented by Box to determine timing indices r m and d m . Phase shifting classification occurs in a means for phase shifting classification Box . L 1 number of symbols is used in calculations which are regulated by an index m. In those cases where m equals L the zero crossing calculation is completed and the calculation result is delivered for PSK DPSK classification with PSK denoting phase shift keying and DPSK denoting differential phase shift keying by a means for differential phase shift keying. However in those cases where m is less than L but the time variable t k in block is beyond the indices r m and d m the index m increases by one unit. Otherwise if the inequality condition in block is satisfied a counting module represented by box counts the number of zero crossings N and the number of zero crossing times x m 1 x m 2 . . . x m N . In a saving module represented by box the last zero crossing times x m 1 1 x m 1 2 . . . x m 1 N are saved for the further computation. A differential phase y m is calculated in a second calculating module represented by Box A and value z m is calculated in a third calculating module represented by Box B based on a number of symbols L weight w N symbol frequency f and the last and current zero crossing times counted in the saving step represented by Box which results in a DPSK demodulation output.

The present invention also encompasses an automated zero crossing signal surveillance demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying an unknown modulation in a signal with many of the same variations and embodiments as the automatic zero crossing signal demodulation and classification device for rapidly identifying an unknown modulation in a signal.

The present invention also contemplates methods for automatic demodulation and classification of phase shift keying signals with hysteretic differential zero crossing time samples. The steps of this invention s methods are also depicted by . Referring again to for a given N this invention s method commences with the step of inputting known variables represented by box where values for the L weight w N and symbol frequency fare given as known inputs. During a first calculating step represented by Box the average number of zero crossing points per symbol Kis calculated with a software calculating module. Notice that if an automated histogram normalization procedure is used the calculation of kis not needed. Box represents a timing signal generating step for generating a timing signal g k which is then used in the Box step of determining timing indices r m and d m . This invention s method continues with a phase shifting classification step. In those cases where m equals L phase shifting classification takes place with PSK denoting phase shift keying and DPSK denoting differential phase shift keying. However in those cases where m is less than L this invention s method continues with a counting step represented by Box for counting the number of zero crossings N and counting zero crossing times x m 1 x m 2 . . . x m N based on the timing indices r m and d m depicted in the indexing step represented by Box . In a saving step represented by Box the last zero crossing times x m 1 1 x m 1 2 . . . x m 1 N are saved for the further computation. A differential phase y m is calculated in a second calculating step represented by Box A and value z m is calculated in a third calculating step represented by Box B based on a number of symbols L weight w N symbol frequency f and the last and current zero crossing times counted in the saving step represented by Box which results in a DPSK demodulation output.

Many of the variations and embodiments of the automatic zero crossing signal demodulation and classification device and automated zero crossing signal surveillance demodulation and classification device also apply to this invention s methods.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description of the automatic zero crossing signal demodulation and classification devices and methods are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components geometrical arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

