---

title: Server providing pseudo print preview and final regular preview to device
abstract: The embodiments provide a print server including an application manager configured to receive, over a network, a print request for content to be printed in accordance with at least one selected printing option from an application associated with a device, and configured to provide a print dialog, over the network, to a user of the application in response to the print request, a pseudo preview generator configured to provide a pseudo print preview for display within the print dialog while a print preview is being generated, and a print preview generator configured to access the content in response to the print request and generate the print preview providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with at least one selected printing option, and further configured to transmit the print preview, over the network, for display within the print dialog thereby replacing the pseudo print preview.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08711416&OS=08711416&RS=08711416
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08711416
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120731
---
An ability to print within a computing environment generally ranges from desirable to indispensable. Conventional printers and associated printing techniques typically involve installation of a print driver within the context of an operating system or platform of an associated computer. The print driver is generally specific to the associated type of printer and to the operating system and enables applications running in the context of the operating system to communicate with e.g. send print jobs to the printer. Thus in an example user experience an owner of a computer running a particular operating system purchases a printer and then installs a version of the printer driver associated with the user s operating system onto the computer. In other example scenarios a printer i.e. associated printer driver may be installed in the context of a network.

In either case a user may wish to preview a document before communicating the print job to the printer. For example an application running on the operating system may provide a print preview in a print dialog that displays a representation of the document in response to a user selecting print from a menu selection. In the conventional print context the application has direct access to the document for creating the print preview. In other words all data necessary for the generation of the print preview may be accessed locally. As such the application may provide an actual print preview of the document subject relatively quickly and easily after the user selects the print option.

In addition most recently printing a document using a cloud print service is now a possibility. For example a cloud printing system may provide users with an ability to print content from virtually any application or device using any cloud aware printer. In other words the cloud printing system may provide an ability for virtually any application running on any device within a network to communicate with a cloud print service to thereby print to any printer that is also in communication with the cloud print service. In one example in the context of cloud printing an application may send a print request over a network to the cloud print server for printing a document using the cloud print service. In return the cloud print server may provide a print dialog including a number of available cloud printers as well as printing options associated with each available cloud aware printer. Upon selection of a printer and the print options the cloud print service may convert the print job to a format suitable for the cloud aware printer and then transmit the print job having the converted format over the network to the cloud aware printer. However rendering a suitable print preview in the cloud environment presents its own set of challenges that are not encountered in conventional print paradigms.

In addition with respect to conventional printing mechanisms the print dialog may include not only the print preview but also a number of selectable printing options such as two sided one sided printing page orientation and resolution for example. These printing options are sometimes presented side by side with the print preview or alternatively using drop down menu selections on the print dialog. Generally the user may interface with these printing options by checking a box or operating a set of radio or option buttons e.g. a set of circular holes that contain white space unselected or a dot selected . However conventional user interface elements for selecting printing options are sometimes not user friendly or intuitive for printing a document in a manner which the user desires.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The embodiments provide a print server including an application manager configured to receive over a network a print request for content to be printed in accordance with at least one selected printing option from an application associated with a device and configured to provide a print dialog over the network to a user of the application in response to the print request. The print dialog identifies at least one printer and provides the at least one selected printing option. The print server also includes a pseudo preview generator configured to provide a pseudo print preview for display within the print dialog while a print preview is being generated where the pseudo print preview provides a generic representation of at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option. Also the print server includes a print preview generator configured to access the content in response to the print request and generate the print preview providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option and further configured to transmit the print preview over the network for display within the print dialog thereby replacing the pseudo print preview.

The print preview generator configured to access the content may include receiving the content over the network from the application in response to the print request. According to another embodiment the print preview generator configured to access the content may include retrieving the content from a network server in response to the print request.

The print preview generator configured to generate the print preview may include arranging the at least a portion of the content in accordance with the at least one selected printing option below the at least one selected printing option.

The print preview generator may be further configured to receive option adjustment information over the network from the application. The option adjustment information may indicate an adjustment to the at least one selected printing option and the preview generator configured to generate the print preview may include providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

The print preview generator further includes a content storage configured to store previous print previews and the print preview generator configured to generate the print preview may include determining that the print preview according to the adjusted at least one selected printing option is stored in the content storage and selecting the stored preview print preview having the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

According to another embodiment the print preview generator further includes a content storage configured to store previous print previews and the print preview generator configured to generate the print preview may include determining that the print preview according to the adjusted at least one selected printing option is not stored in the content storage and generating the print preview based on the at least a portion of the content and the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

The pseudo print preview may display information indicating that the print preview is being generated. In response to receipt of an adjustment of the at least one selected printing option the pseudo preview generator configured to provide the pseudo print preview may include replacing the print preview with the pseudo print preview and providing the pseudo print preview until the print preview having the adjusted at least one selected printing option is available.

The embodiments also provide a method for providing a print preview performed by at least one processor. The method includes receiving over a network a print request for content to be printed in accordance with at least one selected printing option from an application associated with a device and providing a print dialog over the network to a user of the application in response to the print request. The print dialog identifies at least one printer and provides the at least one selected printing option. The method further includes providing a pseudo print preview for display within the print dialog while a print preview is being generated. The pseudo print preview provides a generic representation of at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option. Also the method includes accessing the content in response to the print request generating the print preview providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option and transmitting the print preview over the network for display within the print dialog thereby replacing the pseudo print preview.

The assessing the content in response to the print request may include receiving the content over the network from the application in response to the print request. According to another embodiment the accessing the content in response to the print request may include retrieving the content from a network server in response to the print request.

The generating the print preview may include arranging the at least a portion of the content in accordance with the at least one selected printing option below the at least one selected printing option.

The method may further include receiving option adjustment information over the network from the application where the option adjustment information may indicate an adjustment to the at least one selected printing option and generating the print preview including providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

The generating the print preview may include determining that the print preview according to the adjusted at least one selected printing option is stored in a content storage that stores previously generated print previews and selecting the stored preview print preview having the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

The generating the print preview may include determining that the print preview according to the adjusted at least one selected printing option is not stored in a content storage that stores previously generated print previews and generating the print preview based on the at least a portion of the content and the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

The embodiments may provide a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform a print preview generation process. The instructions may comprise instructions to receive over a network a print request for content to be printed in accordance with at least one selected printing option from an application associated with a device and provide a print dialog over the network to a user of the application in response to the print request. The print dialog identifies at least one printer and provides the at least one selected printing option. The instructions may include instructions to provide a pseudo print preview for display within the print dialog while a print preview is being generated. The pseudo print preview provides a generic representation of at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option. Also the instructions may include instructions to access the content in response to the print request generate the print preview providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option and transmit the print preview over the network for display within the print dialog thereby replacing the pseudo print preview.

The instructions may include instructions to receive the content over the network from the application in response to the print request and or receive option adjustment information over the network from the application the option adjustment information indicating an adjustment to the at least one selected printing option and to generate the print preview including providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

The instructions may include instructions to determine that the print preview according to the adjusted at least one selected printing option is stored in a content storage that stores previously generated print previews and select the stored preview print preview having the adjusted at least one selected printing option.

Furthermore the user may select one or more printing options through the displayed content of either the pseudo print preview or the full print preview provided by the cloud print server or any print preview provided by conventional printing paradigms. For example the user may change printing options by graphically manipulating the print preview pseudo print preview e.g. rotating the print preview by a gesture of a user on a display screen or dragging a portion of the preview using a pointing device . Various other features and advantages of the cloud print service and the user controls for the print preview are described in detail below and or would be apparent.

In a device is illustrated as an example of virtually any computing device from which a user may wish to execute a print job. By way of non limiting example then the device may include a laptop or desktop computer a netbook a tablet computer a smartphone a camera or any device which may store or have access to content which the user may desire to print.

In the example of an operating system is illustrated as executing an application . Again these elements are included by way of illustration and example and may include virtually any operating system or other platform on which virtually any application may run. For example the operating system may include operating systems such as the Windows operating system Mac OS or Linux and may include mobile platforms such as Android Symbian or iPhone OS to name a few examples. In other examples the operating system may include a browser based operating system such as the Chrome OS.

Consequently the application may include virtually any application which may run on any underlying operating system or platform. Examples of such applications are well known and too numerous to mention in any detail but generally include document processing applications email applications image editing or presentation software a web browser or virtually any application which provides the user with a rendering of data content which the user may wish to print.

In particular as referenced above the application may represent a web application which executes on a remote application server as application . That is the application may include any application functionality which is accessed by the user over the network and experienced locally as the application e.g. using a browser running at the device . As is known such web applications allow an owner of the application server to assume responsibility for installing configuring executing and maintaining the application at the application server so that the user of the device may obtain the benefit of the application without many or any of the associated costs and responsibilities. Techniques for executing such a web application and related technology are well known in the art and are therefore not described further in detail herein except as may be helpful or necessary to understand operations of the system of .

The network may thus represent for example the public Internet or other wide area public or private network. The network may represent in further examples a corporate or other intranet and or a smaller scale local or personal network any of which may be implemented using standard network technology.

Further in a cloud aware printer is illustrated which is configured to communicate with the cloud print service over the network . In this regard the term cloud or cloud aware references the use of cloud computing which generally speaking includes a style of computing in which computing resources such as application programs and file storage are remotely provided over a network such as the Internet typically through a web browser. For example many web browsers are capable of running applications which can themselves be application programming interfaces API s to more sophisticated applications running on remote servers. In the cloud computing paradigm a web browser interfaces with and controls an application program that is running on a remote server. Through the browser the user can create edit save and delete files on the remote server via the remote application program. Thus it may be observed that the application server and associated application may also represent examples of cloud computing. Although only one cloud aware printer is illustrated in the example embodiments encompass any number of cloud aware printers using the system of .

In the context of the cloud aware printer the cloud print service enables the application to print directly to the cloud aware printer without a requirement or need for e.g. independently of involvement of the operating system . In other words the application may communicate directly with the cloud print service to thereby print to the cloud aware printer without e.g. requiring a local driver within the operating system . As a result virtually any application that may be configured to communicate with the cloud print service may make use of the cloud aware printer as described in detail below.

For example the cloud print service may be configured to register the user and or the device as well as the cloud aware printer or any other printer capable of using the system of . In a specific example the device may be a smartphone and the user may use the application to purchase a ticket e.g. a movie ticket or an airline ticket . Then the user may print the purchased ticket directly to the cloud aware printer even though the device and or the operating system may not have the resources or otherwise be configured to support native printing in a conventional sense e.g. may not currently be executing a print driver of any sort associated with the cloud aware printer . In this way the user of the application may be provided with a print option and associated abilities that are not currently provided in conventional printing paradigms and techniques. Many other such examples are described herein or would be apparent.

The cloud aware printer may be contrasted with a legacy printer not specifically illustrated in which does not natively support communication with the cloud print service . When using such a legacy printer a separate device and or software may be utilized to impart the advantages of the cloud print service to the legacy printer. It will be appreciated that all the various features and functions of the cloud aware printer may be obtained through the use of a legacy printer supplemented with appropriate hardware software support.

In short the system provides an ability for virtually any application running on any device within the network e.g. the applications and device to communicate with the cloud print service to thereby print to any printer which is also in direct or indirect communication with the cloud print service . Consequently users may benefit from increased printing options and abilities and experience an overall decrease in the costs and efforts associated with doing so. Meanwhile printer manufacturers may experience a decreased or eliminated need to provide users with the updated driver s and other prerequisites for users to fully experience the benefits of their products. This may result in for example higher customer satisfaction and a decreased cost of producing and maintaining printers.

In particular as referenced above the system may provide a number of enhanced features and functions related to print previews and or user controls for selecting printing options. For example the application may provide a print dialog in conjunction with the cloud print service . The print dialog may include a printer list A identifying a number of printers including the cloud aware printer the legacy printer as well as any other available cloud aware printer that is associated with a user account as further explained below. Further the print dialog may include one or more printing options B corresponding to each of the printers in the printer list A. The print dialog is further illustrated with reference to and B E.

According to the embodiments the print dialog may also include a print preview C e.g. the print preview generated by the cloud print service or the pseudo print preview . For example a user may desire to print a document using the application . The application may transmit a print request to the cloud print service and in return the application may receive the print dialog with the printer list A the printing options B and the print preview C. With respect to the print preview C while the document is being accessed by the cloud print service in order to generate the full print preview the print dialog may provide the pseudo print preview while the cloud print service is generating the print preview. After the cloud print service has generated the print preview and the application has received the print preview the print dialog may provide the print preview generated by the cloud print service within the print dialog A thereby replacing the pseudo print preview. Further the user may decide to change printing options B such as changing the orientation from the portrait view to the landscape view. When the user makes such a change the print preview C may switch back to the pseudo print preview while the print preview having the adjusted printing option is generated at the cloud print service .

Also instead of arranging the printer options B to be adjacent to the print preview C one or more printing options may be selected via the print preview C as shown by the dashed rectangle within the print preview C. For example the application may provide a user interface controller that is configured to receive a selection of one or more of the printing options B via the display contents of the print preview C. Instead of providing the conventional radio buttons associated with the selection of printing options the user interface controller may be configured to provide user controls for the selection of the printing options B via the print preview C. In other words the selection of the printing options B may occur directly through the displayed contents of the print preview either the pseudo print preview or the cloud generated print preview . The user interface controller may receive information indicating a graphical manipulation of the displayed contents of the print preview C or a portion thereof. In one example the user may rotate the print preview C in order to change the printing option of landscape to portrait or vice versa. The act of rotating may be performed by the user himself herself in the case that the device includes a touchscreen display. Also the act of rotating may be performed by a pointing device or touchpad in the case of a personal computer or laptop computer for example. In another example the user may select a type of paper size by dragging the top or bottom of the print preview C thereby increasing or decreasing the size of the print preview C. The above two examples are for explanatory purposes only where the embodiments encompass any type of action by the user indirectly or directly that manipulates the displayed contents of the print preview C. Additional examples are illustrated with reference to . Also although the above description relates to the pseudo print preview or the print preview provided by the cloud print service the concept and features relating the interactive user controls provided on the print preview itself may be extended to any conventional print paradigm which is further explained with reference to .

The printer list A may include the entire list of printers associated with the user account of the user for cloud printing. For example the entire list of printers includes the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer as well as other cloud aware printers and or legacy printers that are associated with the cloud print service . In one example the entire list of printers include the printers that are registered with the cloud print service for a particular user as well as publically available printers that have registered with the cloud print service . The publically available printers may include printers that located at a business e.g. coffee shops printing centers etc. that may charge a fee for printing.

Referring to the cloud print server may include a number of example components or modules which may be utilized to implement functionalities of the cloud print service and in particular may be utilized to implement the various print preview pseudo print preview aspects described herein. For example the cloud print service may include a registration manager which may be configured to register printers and users. The registration manager may be configured to receive a registration of the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer including storing identification information therefore within a data store of registered printers. Similarly the registration manager may be configured to register a user s who may currently or potentially wish to execute print jobs using the cloud print service and to store identification information for such users within a data store of registered users.

There are many examples scenarios and techniques by which users and or printers may come to be registered with the cloud print server though the registration manager . In general for example a user of the device may use a browser to visit a website associated with the cloud print service and may enter a username password combination to establish a user account with the cloud print service . In some examples users already may have a user account with a separate and possibly related service or service provider. For example various online services e.g. other cloud based computing resources may provide functionalities such as email data storage and document processing and in such cases the user may already have a secure user account established in connection therewith. In such cases the cloud print service may leverage or access such existing user accounts e.g. to avoid a need to create a new user account and to facilitate access of existing users of other services with the cloud print service such as e.g. for implementation of the printer sharing techniques just described.

Thus it may be appreciated that although the registration manager is illustrated as being included within the cloud print service it also may occur that some or all functionality related to the registration manager may exist externally to the cloud print service . For example the application server may provide an email application as the application and a user of the device may be registered with this email application service . In such a case the application server may have the responsibility of maintaining the user s account and the cloud print service may simply interface with the application server and provide access to the user once the user is logged on into the application .

Further in an application manager may be configured to communicate with any application which may be desired to be used for printing within the system of including e.g. the application and the application . Thus for example the application manager may implement various application programming interfaces APIs which enable such communication with external applications. For example the application manager may include a print dialog API which may be configured to render the print dialog including the printer list A the printing options B and the print preview pseudo print preview C as well as any other print dialog component relevant to the cloud print service . A job submit API may be utilized to receive the identification of application content submitted by the user by way of the print dialog . The job submit API may be configured to submit a corresponding print job including application content to be printed and associated selected printing options to a format converter which may be configured to execute a conversion of the print job into a format which is consistent and compatible with the cloud aware printer . The application manager may communicate with the application or other application in a format that is independent of a specific printer e.g. that is generic with respect to all available or relevant printers within the system.

As indicated above the application manager may receive a print request over the network from a user of the application and provide the print dialog over the network to the user. Also a print preview that is generated at the cloud print service may be provided in the print dialog . For example a print preview generator may access the content to be printed and generate a print preview providing at least a portion of the content display in accordance with one or more printing options. In particular in response to the print request the content may be uploaded from the application to the cloud print service via the network . For example if the content is associated with the user on the application side the print preview generator may access the content to be printed by uploading the document from the application to the cloud print service at or around the time of receipt of the print request. Also the print preview generator may access the content from any other server database or network element that stores the document s to be printed. For example the user may have an associated email account that supports document storage editing and management functionalities. As such in this case the print preview generator may access the content of the document from the appropriate server database network element that stores such information.

However according to the embodiments before the print preview is received at the application a pseudo preview generator may generate a pseudo print preview of the content subject to the print request. In other words the pseudo preview generator may be configured to provide the pseudo print preview for display within the print dialog while the actual print preview is being generated by the print preview generator . The pseudo print preview may provide a generic representation of the document or a portion thereof. The generic representation may be a blank page e.g. white with indicator information e.g. a spinner that indicates that the full print preview is being generated at the cloud print service . Examples of the pseudo print preview are further illustrated in . However the embodiments encompass any type of generic representation that shows a generic layout of the document or a portion thereof to be printed. Further the pseudo print preview may be arranged according to one or more selected printing options. For example printing options may be pre selected by the cloud print service e.g. default printing options such as portrait orientation determined based on the user preferences in a user account and or selected via the print dialog for example. As such the pseudo print preview may provide the generic representation displayed in accordance with the one or more selected printing options. In one example if the selected printing option is the portrait orientation the pseudo preview generator may generate the pseudo print preview as having the portrait orientation.

Referring to the pseudo preview generator is illustrated as being associated with the print cloud service . In this implementation the pseudo preview generator may provide the pseudo print preview over the network to the application for display within the print dialog . Alternatively the pseudo preview generator may be associated with the application . As such the logic for the pseudo preview generator may reside on the operating system or the application server and therefore may be automatically configured to provide the pseudo print preview within the print dialog upon receipt of a print request.

In one embodiment as the print preview generator accesses the document and generates at least a portion of the print preview the print preview generator may transmit over the network the portion of the generated printed print preview via the application manager while the print preview for the other portions of the document are being generated. For example if the print preview generator generates the first page of the document the print preview generator may transmit the first page of the print preview over the network to be displayed within the print dialog while the subsequent page s is are being accessed. The print preview for the first page of the document may then replace the pseudo print preview in the print dialog . Subsequently as the print preview generator generates the print preview for the other subsequent pages the print preview generator may transmit the generated print preview for the other pages in a page by page manner or multiple pages at one or more times . In other words the print preview generator may provide the portions of the print preview within the print dialog as they are being generated so that the user does not have to wait for the entire document to be uploaded. Alternatively the print preview generator may provide the full print preview at a time when the entire document is uploaded and its print preview is generated.

Similar to the pseudo print preview the print preview generator may arrange the print preview according to the selected printing options. In one particular example if the selected printing option includes a landscape orientation the print preview generator generates the print preview such that the displayed contents of the print preview have the landscape orientation. The print preview generator may store the generated print preview in a content storage . As such if the user wishes to view the same generated print preview the print preview generator does not have to re generate the print preview. Rather the print preview generator may access the stored print preview from the content storage and provide the already generated print preview in the print dialog .

Thereafter the user may decide to change or adjust the printing options. As such the print preview generator may receive option adjustment information over the network from the application . The option adjustment information may indicate an adjustment to one or more of the printing options provided in the print dialog . Then the print preview generator may generate the print preview including providing the content or a portion thereof displayed in accordance with the adjusted one or more printing options and provide the adjusted print preview in the print dialog .

In one embodiment when the print preview generator receives the option adjustment information the print preview generator may determine whether or not the print preview according to the adjusted one or more printing options is stored in the content storage . If the print preview having the adjusted one or more printing options is located in the content storage e.g. it was previously generated the print preview generator may select the stored print preview and provide the stored print preview for display in the print dialog . However if the print preview having the adjusted one or more printing options is not located in the content storage e.g. it was not previously generated the print preview generator may generate the print preview based on the content to be printed and the adjusted one or more printing options. In addition in response to receipt of the adjustment to one or more printing options the pseudo preview generator is configured to provide the pseudo print preview thereby replacing the print preview until the print preview having the adjusted one or more printing options is available. These and other features relating to the print preview and the pseudo print preview are further explained later in the disclosure.

As mentioned above according to the embodiments the user interface controller may be configured to receive the selection of one or more printing options through the displayed content of the print preview. Alternatively the user interface controller may be configured to receive the selection of the one or more printing options through the displayed content of the pseudo print preview. In other words the selection of the printing options may occur directly through the displayed contents of the print preview either the pseudo print preview or the full print preview . The user interface controller may receive information indicating a graphical manipulation of the displayed contents of the print preview or a portion thereof. In one example the user may rotate the print preview C in order to change the printing option of landscape to portrait or vice versa. The act of rotating may be performed by the user himself herself in the case that the device includes a touchscreen display. Also the act of rotating may be performed by a pointing device or touchpad in the case of a personal computer or laptop computer for example. In another example the user may select a type of paper size by dragging the top or bottom of the print preview C thereby increasing or decreasing the size of the print preview C. The user interface controls of the embodiments may be applied in the context of cloud printing or within conventional printing techniques.

As shown in the application includes the user interface controller as previously described with reference to that is configured to receive a selection of the one or more printing options through the displayed content of the print preview C. For example in response to a print request a print dialog manager may provide the print dialog which includes the printer list A and the print preview C. The printer list A may include the printer as well as any other printer available to the device for printing. Further a print preview generator may provide a print preview of the content to be printed within the print dialog . According to the embodiments the selection of one or more printing options B is received through the print preview . Then the print preview generator is configured to change the displayed content of the print preview C according to the selection of the one or more printing options received through the displayed content of the print preview C.

In one embodiment the user interface controller may receive information indicating a graphical manipulation of the displayed content of the print preview C or a portion thereof by the user. For example in the case that the device includes a touch screen display the user may manipulate the displayed content of the print preview C on the touch screen display in order to change the type of printing option. In the case that the device is a personal computer or laptop computer the user may manipulate the displayed content of the print preview C using a pointing device or touch pad. The manipulation may include moving the displayed content of the print preview C or a portion thereof such as rotating the displayed content of the print preview C or the portion thereof.

The print preview C may be a representation of a document according to a printing option such as the portrait orientation. However the user may wish to preview the document in a landscape orientation. As such according to the embodiments the user may rotate the displayed content of the print preview C which causes the user interface controller to receive the user s selection. In response the print preview generator is configured to change the displayed content of the print preview C to the landscape orientation according to the landscape selection received through the displayed content of the print preview C. Example embodiments of the user controls for controlling printing options through the displayed content of the print preview are further illustrated in .

Referring back to because various types of printers have a wide variety of printing options which may describe the same printing options in a number of different formats the cloud print service may also include an options translator in order to provide the display of the printing options in a uniform manner. For example the options translator is configured to determine one or more printing options associated with the available cloud aware printers and translate a native printer display format of the printing options to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . The native printer display format for a particular printing option may be the display format provided by the individual vendor of the printer. However multiple display formats may exist for the same printing option. As such the cloud print server may translate the native printer display format of the printing options into the common protocol display format. The common protocol display format may be a display format that is uniform across all cloud aware printers. Also the common protocol display format permits the cloud print service to provide a uniform and user friendly print preview of the document subject to the print request.

The printing options that are understood by the cloud print service and translated into the common protocol display format may be considered semantically supported and may be referred to as semantic printing options. The cloud print service may semantically support any number and type of printing options such as page resolution duplex printing e.g. long side short side page range page orientation size type of paper options for color rendering staples or no staples split sheet capability option for bypass tray to put cards cover inserter color brightness page order being forward or reverse lines per inch in the document being a range from 300 to 1800 and more specifically 300 600 1200 and 1800 lines per inch job fonts glossy adjust and gradation smoothing for quality of printing ink separation screening parameters for quality of printing color matching folding binding collating booklet making slip sheet drilling and trimming for job finishing. These options constitute broad capabilities for printing such as job layout job definition job quality job content job description job color job imposition and job finishing.

In one example the options translator may determine the printing options from capability files that may be stored in a printer characteristics database . The printer characteristics database may store any type of characteristic associated with the registered cloud aware prints such as capabilities e.g. in a form of a capability file features and any other type of attribute associated with the printer. The capability files may include information created by vendors to describe the entire set of features and capabilities available for a particular printer. Based on the capability files in the printer characteristic database the options translator may determine a set of printing options for the available cloud aware printers in response to receipt of the print request and may translate the native printer display format of the printing options associated with the available cloud aware printers into the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . For example the options translator may disregard the native print display format of the printing options provided in the capability files and select the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service from a translation database .

The translation database may store the common protocol display format associated with each capability. For example for each capability the translation database may store a corresponding common protocol display format which may be a common description for a particular printing option. In other words for a particular printing option e.g. page resolution the common protocol display format may be a display format for the printing option that is the same for each printer having the page resolution printing option. Therefore regardless of the vendor specific language description the printing options may be provided to the user in a uniform manner. In addition the translation database may provide a translation of the common protocol display format in a number of different languages.

Instead of using the native display format of the printing options the options translator may search the translation database for the capabilities provided by the printer characteristics database and locate the corresponding common protocol display format for the appropriate printing options. In addition the options translator may determine the language associated with the user locate the capability names corresponding to the printing options in the translation database and provide the common protocol display format for the printing options in the determined language. For example the options translator may determine the language of the user based on the user s account from the database of registered users. Also the options translator may determine the language based on the internet protocol IP address associated with the print request. Further it is noted that the embodiments encompass any known mechanism that may identify a location of the user.

After the user selects the desired printing options the print job may be generated and forwarded to the cloud print service via the application manager . The print jobs received at the application manager may be passed to the format converter which may be configured to receive the print job and facilitate or execute conversion of the print job into a format associated with the designated type of printer for the print job in question. Such conversion may thus generally include as needed conversion of the print data itself as well as conversion of the print characteristics specified in conjunction with the given print job.

In more detail as is known printers generally require low level device or type specific instructions which provide a base by which printers actually apply ink to paper to achieve a desired appearance. Such instructions may therefore include very specific portrayals of the desired print outcome using e.g. a page description language PDL . For example the language postscript may be used to describe a desired print outcome which may then be rendered e.g. or rasterized by a specific printer using a print text or images. Additionally fixed layout document formats exist which are designed to facilitate device independent printing all maintaining documents available. For example the portable document format PDF is an example of such format where .PDF documents may be generated using postscript. Somewhat similarly the XPS format provides such a fixed layout document which is based on the eXtensible markup language XML .

Thus application content or other print data may be received from the application in virtually any format including e.g. hypertext markup language HTML or in the format associated with document processing applications and or images or any of the formats referenced above. The format converter may thus be configured to receive print data in these and any other various formats and to convert the print data into a format that is recognizable by a designated printer.

Similarly as referenced above the format converter may be configured to convert the print characteristics associated with the print job into a format that is recognizable by the designated printer . That is as referenced above the print characteristics may include aspects of how the print data should or can be printed i.e. based on preferences of the user and or capabilities or lack thereof of the designated printer. The format converter may thus provide appropriate conversion depending on a selected printer and or on preferences of the user. The format converter may then provide and execute a resulting converted print job using e.g. a protocol referred to herein as the cloud print protocol CPP . Thus the cloud print protocol allows the cloud print service to communicate with the cloud aware printer or with a legacy printer enabled to communicate with the cloud print service .

The cloud print service may include job storage which may provide one or more types of data storage related to operations of the cloud print service . For example the job storage may store print jobs and related information where such print jobs information may be stored prior to and or after the format conversions provided by the format converter . For example a print job may be stored in a printer independent format in which the print job may have been received by the job submit API .

Further in the example of the cloud print service of a print job router may be configured to route the converted print job from the format converter and or the job storage to a designated printer e.g. the cloud aware printer . The print job router may further be configured to monitor and mediate execution and success failure of a given print job. The print job router may thus be responsible for managing and monitoring ongoing print jobs from a plurality of users which may be designated for a corresponding plurality of printers including the cloud aware printer .

As shown the print job router may include or otherwise be associated with a job fetch API and or a job control API . For example the job fetch API may be configured to provide the print job to the cloud aware printer e.g. may be used by the cloud aware printer to fetch a desired print job. The job control API may be responsible for authorizing the cloud aware printer as needed and for receiving updated status information from the cloud aware printer e.g. whether the print job has completed or failed. Such status information also may be stored using the job storage in association with the corresponding print job in question. The job control API also may include status information including e.g. whether a print job is currently queued by not yet downloaded to a corresponding printer or spooled downloaded and added to a native printer queue of the cloud aware printer if applicable .

Furthermore the print job router may be configured to periodically check a status of a printer s using a corresponding print client such as print client . For example the print job router may be aware that the cloud aware printer is available as long as the cloud aware printer is powered on at a given time.

As just referenced the cloud aware printer may utilize various hardware software components during normal printing operations. For example during execution the print job router may be configured to communicate with e.g. a print client executing on firmware of the cloud aware printer . The print client may communicate with the cloud print service e.g. with the print job router using the cloud print protocol referenced herein.

More specifically the print client may be configured to register the cloud aware printer with the cloud print service and to thereby associate the thus registered printer with a user of the device . Moreover the print client may be configured to actually drive the cloud aware printer and thereby execute the desired printing.

In the example of the cloud aware printer is illustrated as including the print client within the firmware . The firmware as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art may represent factory installed hardware and or software which provides designated functions without generally requiring or allowing user modification or configuration e.g. may utilize read only memory . Thus the cloud aware printer may be preconfigured from before time of purchase to communicate and coordinate with the cloud print service to thereby provide a convenient and enjoyable user experience.

For example the cloud aware printer may include a network access manager user input and a display or other user output which may generally represent otherwise conventional components that are therefore not described here in detail except as may be needed to assist in understanding example operations of the system. Of course the cloud aware printer need not include all of the components and or may include additional or alternative components which are also not discussed here in detail.

In the example of the network access manager may represent associated hardware software which enables a cloud aware printer to communicate over the network with the cloud print service . For example such communication may be conducted wirelessly if the cloud aware printer is within range of an appropriate wireless network. In other examples the network access manager may enable a wired connection of the cloud aware printer to the network e.g. by way of connection to an appropriate router.

The user input may represent virtually any sort of keypad stylus or other input technique for entering data to the cloud aware printer . Similarly the display may represent virtually any sort of audio and or video display to output information to the user or other user of the cloud aware printer .

It will be appreciated that many other configurations of the cloud aware printer or other printers are contemplated for use in conjunction with the system. For example as referenced above a legacy printer not specifically illustrated in the example of may lack some of the functionality of the cloud aware printer . For example such a legacy printer may not have the network access manager and or the firmware which may be utilized to implement the print client and otherwise communicate with the cloud print service . In such cases the print client may be configured to execute on or in conjunction with a computing device which is in communication with the legacy printer and which has the available resources necessary to implement the functionalities described herein and which may include an otherwise conventional printer driver communicating with the legacy printer in question. Other variations and implementations of the printer or related printers would be apparent and are not described here in detail except as may be necessary or helpful in understanding operations of the roving printer scenarios described herein.

A print request for content to be printed in accordance with at least one selected printing option may be received from an application associated with a device . For example the application manager may receive via a suitable API such as the print dialog API a print request from the application associated with the device . In one example the user may select print from a menu provided by the application which displays a print dialog specific to the application . In other words the initial print dialog may be in a format developed by the application . However within the printer selection of the initial print dialog there may be a selection for printing using the cloud print service . Upon selecting the option for using the cloud print service the application may transmit a print request over the network which is then received by the application manager .

A print dialog may be provided over the network to a user of the application in response to the print request . For example the application manager may provide the print dialog via a suitable API such as the print dialog API over the network to the user of the application . In addition the embodiments encompass the situation where an initial application specific print dialog is not initially provided. Rather upon selecting print from a menu provided by the application the print request is transmitted to the cloud print service and the application manager provides the cloud generated print dialog over the network to the user of the application . As described above the print dialog identifies at least one printer such as the cloud aware printer and provides one or more printing options B associated with each printer in the print dialog .

A pseudo print preview is provided for display within the print dialog while a print preview is being generated . For example before the print preview is received at the application the pseudo preview generator may generate a pseudo print preview of the content subject to the print request. In other words the pseudo preview generator may be configured to provide the pseudo print preview for display within the print dialog while the full print preview is being generated by the print preview generator . The pseudo print preview provides a generic representation of at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option. The generic representation may be a blank page e.g. white with indicator information e.g. a spinner that indicates that the full print preview is being generated. Also as indicated above the pseudo print preview may provide the generic representation displayed in accordance with the one or more selected printing options. In one example if the selected printing option is the portrait orientation the pseudo preview generator may generate the pseudo print preview as having the portrait orientation.

The content may be accessed in response to the print request . For example in response to the print request the print preview generator may upload the content from the application to the cloud print service via the network . If the content is associated with the user on the application side the print preview generator may access the content to be printed by uploading the document from the application to the cloud print service . Also the print preview generator may access the content from any other server database or network element that stores the document s to be printed.

The print preview providing the at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one selected printing option may be generated . For example as the print preview generator retrieves the document the print preview generator generates the print preview according to the selected one or more printing options. In one particular example if the selected printing option includes a landscape orientation the print preview generator generates the print preview such that the displayed contents of the print preview have the landscape orientation. The print preview generator may store the generated print preview in the content storage . As such if the user wishes to view the same generated print preview the print preview generator does not have to re generate the print preview. Rather the print preview generator may access the stored print preview from the content storage and provide the already generated print preview in the print dialog .

The print preview may be transmitted over the network for display within the print dialog thereby replacing the pseudo print preview with the transmitted print preview . For example as the print preview generator accesses the document and generates at least a portion of the print preview the print preview generator may transmit over the network the portion of the generated printed print preview via the application manager . In one example if the print preview generator generates the first page of the document the print preview generator may transmit the print preview corresponding to the first page over the network to be displayed within the print dialog while the subsequent page is being accessed. The print preview corresponding to the first page may then replace the pseudo print preview in the print dialog . Subsequently as the print preview generator generates the print preview for the other subsequent pages the print preview generator may transmit the generated print preview for the other pages. In other words the print preview generator may provide the portions of the print preview within the print dialog as they are being generated so that the user does not have to wait for the entire document to be uploaded. Alternatively the print preview generator may provide the full print preview at a time when the entire document is uploaded and its print preview is generated.

Print options may be changed by the user . For example within the print dialog the user may change one or more of the printing options via any conventional printing option mechanisms or adjust the printing options through the displayed content of the print preview in accordance with the embodiments as provided above and further explained with reference to .

It is determined whether or not the print preview is displayed . For example in response to the adjustment to the one or more printing options the application may determine whether the print preview is displayed or the pseudo print preview is still displayed. If the print preview is displayed the pseudo preview generator provides the pseudo preview which replaces the print preview . However if it is determined that the pseudo print preview is still being displayed the application may transmit the option adjustment information to the cloud print service so that the print preview can be adjusted . Similarly after the preview is switched back to the pseudo preview the application may transmit the option adjustment information to the cloud print service so that the print preview can be adjusted .

A new print preview is received from a server . For example the application may receive the new print preview that has been generated by the print cloud service over the network . The new print preview is arranged according to the adjusted one or more options. After the application receives the new print preview the print dialog displays the new print preview .

As indicated above in response to the print request the print preview generator is configured to access the content to be printed. The print preview generator may be configured generate the print preview based on the accessed content according to one or more printing options and provide the generated print preview for display in the print dialog . Further as explained above the user may change one or more printing options. As such a print option selection may be received from the user . For example the print preview generator may receive option adjustment information indicating that the user has changed one or more of the printing options provided in the print dialog .

It is determine whether or not the content to be printed arranged according to the adjusted one or more printing options is stored in the contents storage . For example the print preview generator determines if a previous print preview having the adjusted printing options has been created and stored in the contents storage . If the print preview having the adjusted one or more printing options is stored in the content storage the print preview generator may selected the stored print preview and transmit the stored print preview to the user . However if the print preview having the adjusted one or more printing options is not stored in the content storage the print preview generator may generate a new print preview store the new print preview in the content storage and transmit the new print preview to the user .

A print dialog may be provided in response to receipt of a print request for content to be printed in accordance with at least one printing option from a user of an application associated with a device . In one embodiment referring to the application manager may receive the print request over the network from the application associated with the device and the application manager may provide over the network the print dialog to the user. In another example referring to the print dialog manager may receive the print request for content to be printed from a user of the application associated with the device and provide the print dialog to the user for display. Further as discussed above the print dialog may identify at least one printer in a printer list A and provide printing options B associated with each printer. In one embodiment referring to the printer list A may include the cloud aware printer as well as any other printer associated with a user account of the user and or any publically available cloud enabled printers that may be used by the user. In another embodiment referring to the printer list A may include any printer connected to the device or may be available to the device for printing.

A print preview providing the content displayed in accordance with the at least one printing option may be generated . For example in one embodiment referring to the print preview generator may generate the print preview according to the selected printing options in the manner that was described above and transmit the print preview over the network to the application to be displayed within the print dialog . In other embodiment referring to the print preview generator may generate the print review according to the selected printing options and provide the generated print preview within the print dialog for display.

A selection of the at least one printing option may be received through the displayed content of the print preview . For example in one embodiment referring to the user interface controller may receive the selection of the at least one printing option through the displayed content of the print preview C. In other embodiment referring to the user interface controller may receive the selection of the at least one printing option through the displayed content of the print preview C.

In particular instead of arranging of the printer options B to be adjacent to the print preview C one or more printing options B may be selected via the print preview C as shown by the dashed rectangle within the print preview C in or the solid rectangle within the print preview C of . In other words instead of providing the conventional radio buttons associated with the selection of printing options the user interface controller may be configured to provide user controls for the selection of the printing options via the print preview C. The selection of the printing options may occur directly through the displayed contents of the print preview C e.g. in the context of the cloud printing environment the selection may also be received through the pseudo print preview or the print preview . The user interface controller may receive information indicating a graphical manipulation of the displayed contents of the print preview C or a portion thereof which may include moving the displayed contents or a portion thereof. In one example the user may rotate the print preview C in order to change the printing option of landscape to portrait or vice versa. The act of rotating may be performed by the user himself herself in the case that the device includes a touchscreen display. Also the act of rotating may be performed by a pointing device or touchpad in the case of a personal computer or laptop computer for example. In another example the user may select a type of paper size by dragging the top or bottom of the print preview C thereby increasing or decreasing the size of the print preview C.

The displayed content of the print preview may be changed according to the selection of the at least one printing option received through the displayed content . For example according to one embodiment referring to the print preview generator may receive option adjustment information indicating the user s adjustment and may generate the print preview according to the adjusted printing options. In another example referring to the print preview generator may receive the option adjustment information from the user interface controller and generate the print preview according to the adjusted printing options. illustrate different variations of the user controls for adjusting the printing options.

It is noted that the examples of are merely examples where the embodiments encompass any type of variation of using interface controls directly on the print preview itself. Also many other examples and variations of the systems and operations of would be apparent to one skilled in the art. For example instead of printing to a hardware printer the system may be used to print to PDF or other software format.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning system receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Thus various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

It will be appreciated that the above embodiments that have been described in particular detail are merely example or possible embodiments and that there are many other combinations additions or alternatives that may be included.

Also the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present features in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations may be used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

