---

title: Method for maintaining integrity against erroneous ephemeris for a differential GPS based navigation solution supporting fast system startup
abstract: Technology for generating a H1 protection level from an N−1 position in a global positioning system (GPS) receiver is disclosed. One approach can include an H1 monitor configured to generate an H1 protection level from an N number of N−1 positions. The N−1 position can be derived by a differential global positioning system (GPS) satellite measurement removed from a plurality of N differential GPS satellites measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898011&OS=08898011&RS=08898011
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08898011
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
Satellite navigation systems such as the global positioning system GPS enable a receiver to determine a location from ranging signals received from a plurality of satellites. The ranging signals can be broadcasted on frequencies such as the L1 signal 1.57542 gigahertz GHz and or L2 signal 1.2276 GHz . L1 can have a wavelength of about 19 centimeters cm and L2 can have a wavelength of about 24 cm. Position can be determined from code and or carrier phase information. A code division multiple access CDMA code is transmitted by the GPS satellites to the receiver and correlated with replica codes to determine ranges to different satellites. Accuracy can be enhanced using real time kinematic RTK processing of carrier phase information. Accuracy at the level of tens of centimeters is possible with RTK carrier phase integer ambiguity resolution. RTK carrier phase integer ambiguity resolution can be used in applications with very accurate positional location information requirements and high integrity requirements.

High accuracy relative positioning data with minimally acceptable integrity levels provided by RTK processing can be used in land surveying precision agriculture and or construction applications. In other applications such as those that present a substantial risk to human life precision positioning with both high accuracy and high integrity is desirable. For example applications that involve landing an aircraft mid air refueling or coordinated formations flight can use a RTK positioning technique that is both highly accurate and also provides a high integrity level e.g. high integrity protection level .

A high integrity protection level operates from the assumption that the GPS measurement data is without fault. In order to further increase the integrity of any real time kinetic positioning techniques a positioning system may monitor the received data in order to minimize the effects of faulty measurements. Monitoring however may not remove the possibility of using faulty measurements to calculate GPS positions in some examples.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Relative navigation systems using global positioning can have both high accuracy and high integrity. A relative navigation system can use at least two positioning receivers e.g. GPS receivers that move independently from each other or that can vary position relative to each other. A relative navigation system can have a reference platform or reference receiver that may be moving and remote user platforms or user receivers that may also be moving that may generate a relative position to the reference system with high accuracy and integrity. Integrity can be based on a small probability that a relative navigation error could exceed a calculated protection level PL . In an example a relative position can be based on at least 2 sets of synchronous GPS measurements from the reference receivers on the relative navigation system and at least one remote GPS sensor on the user platform. When the reference platform and or user platform dynamics are sufficiently high or the measurement latency due to processing and communications is sufficiently long an inertial navigation system INS based on measurements from inertial measurement units IMU that can include gyrometers and accelerometers may be used to propagate the relative navigation solution between GPS measurements and or to extrapolate the solution to current time to account for a system latency.

Positioning measurements can include ephemeris information of a GPS satellite included in a GPS signal transmitted by the GPS satellite. The GPS signal may also include ephemeris information of other GPS satellites in the system or GPS constellation. When the positioning measurements including ephemeris information are valid an H0 protection level can be calculated. The H0 protection level represents a fault free protection level e.g. fault free hypothesis equation or a protection level with no measurement errors or ephemeris faults. A fault or measurement error can be generated by an ephemeris fault or ephemeris error . Ephemeris faults can be information based faults e.g. faults in ephemeris data and or clock messages. For example in one aspect ephemeris data that provides the satellite position may experience unusually large errors. Ephemeris faults can be monitored by high integrity systems but may only be monitored at an observable threshold which may be considerably larger than normal ephemeris errors. Thus ephemeris faults may be larger than normal ephemeris errors that do not meet an observable threshold. Unobservable ephemeris faults can compromise integrity.

A monitor e.g. ephemeris monitor can be used to track the ephemeris of GPS satellites and ensure ephemeris integrity. Because conventional monitoring may not detect or remove faulty measurements used to calculate GPS positions until after a specified startup time e.g. a couple of hours a monitor can be designed to factor an ephemeris fault into the accuracy as well as the integrity protection level until the monitor can ensure ephemeris integrity. Such a monitor may be configured to generate both a H0 and H1 protection levels. An H1 protection level can be a protection level generated if a single hypothetical fault occurs with a positioning measurement from a single source such as a single GPS ephemeris error. The H1 protection level can be generated from an N 1 N minus one position where N represents the number of GPS satellite used for the positioning measurement e.g. an N position . The N 1 position can be derived by removing measurements from a specified GPS satellite from a plurality of N GPS satellites measurements. The GPS measurements including the removed GPS measurements can be based on the GPS signals received from the GPS satellite. Each GPS satellite measurement can include ephemeris information for the GPS satellite transmitting the GPS signal as well as other GPS satellites in the GPS constellation.

With the H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position high integrity differential GPS navigation systems can account for the possibility that the GPS satellite ephemeris data may be corrupted. Using the N 1 position allows a monitor to support a quick start up e.g. within or around 30 minutes when ephemeris history is not available for an autonomous system. Using the N 1 position can provide a protection level beyond just using a past history and current observations to monitor an ephemeris error and bound the maximum undetectable error. The H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position can be used to maintain acceptable performance and high integrity in the event of possible ephemeris errors which H1 protection level can be used to support a rapid startup of a relative navigation system and or GPS receiver used in a mobile system.

As shown in five GPS satellites can send signals to the reference receiver and send signals to the user receiver. The reference receiver can calculate a reference receiver position or location from measurements generated from the received GPS signals. The GPS signals received by the reference receiver measurements generated from the received GPS signals and or the reference receiver position can be transmitted to the user receiver. The user receiver can calculate a user receiver position and or relative user position to the reference receiver from measurements generated from the GPS signals received by the user receiver and reference receiver position information received from the reference receiver. In an example the user receiver s relative position to the reference receiver can be more accurate than an absolute global position.

As illustrated in an aircraft can generate a position and a protection level using measurements generated from the signals of the at least five GPS satellites . When all the signals of GPS satellite in view of the receiver are used an H0 protection level can be generated. When the measurements generated from the signals and of one of the GPS satellite is removed and the rest of the measurements are used an H1 protection level can be generated. A H1 protection level can be generated for each GPS satellite removed. For example a first position and a first H1 protection level e.g. sv removed H1 protection level can be generated from measurements derived from sv sv sv and sv with a sv removed from the set of measurements. A second position and a second H1 protection level e.g. sv removed H1 protection level can be generated from measurements derived from sv sv sv and sv with a sv removed from the set of measurements and so forth calculating a H1 protection level for the measurements of each GPS satellite sv sv and sv removed.

For example an aircraft can perform an H1 calculation for ephemeris when flying against a mobile system that has just started up and a conventional ephemeris monitor has not been able to validate ephemeris messages yet. The receiver of the aircraft and or the mobile system can compute N 1 position by removing measurements from one GPS satellite. The receiver can compute a position bias between N 1 solution and an actual position. The receiver can compute H1 protection levels for N 1 position taking into account a prior probability for a satellite ephemeris fault and a position bias. The receiver can compute an H0 protection level for an N position. The receiver can then select the larger of the H1 protection levels and the H0 protection level for a final protection level.

The following provides additional details of the examples. A differential navigation system can be fixed or mobile. Components of a fixed differential navigation system can be located on a ship such as an aircraft carrier. Components of a mobile differential navigation system can be setup at a specified location such as a newly acquired or temporary runway e.g. landing strip . In an example a mobile differential navigation system e.g. land based differential navigation system may have requirements to be deployed and operational within 90 minutes which can include a hardware setup time. Differential system can maintain integrity even at an initial deployment which can include a risk of faulted ephemeris messages from the GPS satellites. Conventional monitors can take hours to ensure ephemeris integrity after starting up cold . Starting up cold can include a monitor that does not have prior measurements tracking ephemeris data or ephemeris integrity. Current approaches may not meet integrity and availability requirements within the 90 minute start up.

Various approaches may be used to maintain integrity even at an initial deployment to meet a fast start up requirement. First an interpretation of an operational after 90 minutes requirement can be relaxed to allow system availability to be averaged over a longer time period such as one day. Relaxing the interpretation of a requirement may not meet the definition of the operational after 90 minutes requirement since the system may provide minimal availability just after 90 minute setup and minimal availability does not equate operational. The first approach may not provide an adequate solution to an operational after 90 minutes requirement.

A second approach to maintain integrity at an initial deployment can be providing ephemeris data sets acquired from outside sources e.g. reliable sources to allow a monitor to be operational more quickly. The second approach can impose operational constraints such as requiring networking capability which may not be available in some scenarios where a monitor is used. A third approach to maintain integrity at an initial deployment can be using or designing a faster converging ephemeris monitor which may not be viable with current technology and or based on the motion of GPS satellites.

A fourth approach can use H1 ephemeris protection levels during initial start up based on the N 1 position which can ensure integrity and provide sufficient availability. In an example the H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position can meet integrity requirements for a mobile system MS at start up meet performance requirements for the MS such as startup time and precision approach availability and enable fast startup for a high integrity differential GPS system.

For example the H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position can provide high integrity for satellites e.g. GPS satellites with potential ephemeris faults without relying on the ephemeris monitor which can require too much warm up time to meet a start up requirement. With the H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position system integrity can be available immediately with sufficient availability to meet MS requirements without requiring logistics for information to be available from an outside source at start up. The H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position can provide autonomy from external sources for ephemeris information.

In another example an aircraft can perform H1 calculation for ephemeris faults when flying against a MS that has just started i.e. without an ephemeris history . The H1 calculation can protect against a rare single ranging source error. After a number of hours of mobile system e.g. ground system operations an ephemeris monitor can detect a ephemeris error and the H1 calculation may no longer be needed.

In another configuration the N 1 position solution can use an H1 hypothesis technique to calculate a protection level in view of a possible ephemeris error onboard an approaching aircraft. The H1 calculation can determine a relative solution by eliminating one satellite which can be performed for all n satellites in view and the monitor can compute the H1 protection level based on the integrity bound of each N 1 solution and a bias of the N 1 solution with an actual solution based on measurements using all the N satellites. The H1 protection level can operate off the assumption that abnormal ephemeris are rare. The integrity bound can take advantage of a rare probability of an abnormal ephemeris error. The final protection level can be the maximum of all H1 protection levels and an all satellite normal H0 protection level. The H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position can be used to facilitate a fast startup requirement and meet integrity and performance requirements for a precision approach.

In an example a relative navigation processor can compute a relative position vector using available aircraft GPS measurements and matching reference receiver measurements or corrections and corresponding error bounds. Equation 1 shows an example of a general formulation of the existing system position calculation. Equation 1 Where 

Refare the measurements or average corrections created from the reference receiver s to each of the N common satellites in view of the reference station and user. The index i can be a positive integer where i indexes the measurement and or correction by the relevant GPS satellite.

 are the error bounds on the differential range measurements to each satellite i due to environmental effects.

The relative navigation processor via a H0 protection level module can compute the protection level corresponding to a relative position vector using the measurement geometry the error bounds and the environmental error bounds not shown for simplicity of the illustration . A reference receiver position Pand a user receiver position Palong with GPS satellite positions can be used to calculate a geometry between positions. The calculation of Pand Pmay not be a circular computation or an iterative Pcomputation since approximate locations may sufficient for calculating the geometry. Allocated integrity risk can be used in the computation of Pas well. In an example the allocated integrity risk can be quite small approximately 10 . Protection levels can be computed for vertical lateral and or horizontal directions denoted by V L and or H respectively. Equation 2 represents an example of a general formulation of an existing H0 protection level calculation. The exact form of the H0 protection level calculation can depend on the differential GPS processing technique employed. PIR Equation 2 Where 

Pis an approximate position of a reference point at a known relative position to the reference receiver s .

Pis an approximate position of the user receiver which can be used for linearization. The actual relative position can be determined using Equation 1.

 are the error bounds on the differential range measurements to each satellite i due to environmental effects.

PIRis the integrity risk or a probability of integrity risk allocated for each fault free H0 protection level vertical lateral and or horizontal . In an example the probability that the position error exceeds the PL in the V or L direction or the H plane may be less than PIR.

The H1 ephemeris monitor or ephemeris H1 monitor can use a similar formulation to the above formulation with some changes to compute the H1 ephemeris components.

An N 1 solution module can compute the N 1 solutions. The N 1 solution can include the N different position solutions of all but one of the N satellites used in the position computation. The index k can denote the left out satellite where k can take on values from 1 to N. Equation 3 shows an example of how n position solutions can be computed by the function defined in Equation 1 where n is an integer between 1 and N. In an example Equations 1 and 3 can include at least 4 satellites so N 5. Equation 3 

An H1 bias module can compute the N 1 biases which can include N different biases for each type of protection level calculation i.e. a vertical lateral and or horizontal bias for each value of k . Equation 4 shows an example of how the H1 biases are calculated. Equation 4 

An H1 protection level module can compute the N 1 H1 protection levels PL for vertical V lateral L or horizontal H which can include N different H1 PL s for each type V L or H . A new integrity allocation for H1 undetected fault can generally be smaller than H0 integrity risks so that the combined risks can satisfy the integrity requirement. However the integrity allocation for H1 computation can also takes into account the probability that an undetected fault exists P which can be on the order of 10 which reduces H1 PLs and hence alleviates some performance concerns. Equation 5 shows an example of how H1 PLs are calculated based on the function defined in Equation 2.

PIRis the integrity risk or probability of integrity risk allocated for an ephemeris fault H1 protection level vertical lateral and or horizontal . In an example the probability allocation PIRcan be an order of magnitude smaller than a fault free integrity risk allocation but can be compensated by an apriori ephemeris fault probability.

Pis the probability that an undetected ephemeris fault exists based on an apriori fault rate bound. The apriori ephemeris fault probability can be approximately 10 which can indicate that ephemeris faults are rare.

A protection level determination module can compute the overall PL for vertical V and lateral L directions and or horizontal H plane which can be a maximum of the individual PL s by type V L and or H as shown in the example of Equation 6.

The application of the H1 protection level generated from an N 1 position used to compensate for ephemeris faults allows a high integrity system to commence high integrity operations prior to being able to monitor ephemeris massages which can allow for a rapid deployment. Because actual ephemeris faults can be quite rare the performance penalty from using N 1 satellites in the solution can be offset by the smaller integrity factors based on

As previously described illustrates an example relative navigation processor which can include an H1 monitor e.g. an ephemeris H1 monitor . The H1 monitor can be configured to generate an H1 protection level from an N number of N 1 positions. The N 1 position can be derived by a differential global positioning system GPS satellite measurement removed from a plurality of N differential GPS satellites measurements. In an example the H1 monitor can be configured as an ephemeris H1 monitor operable to provide integrity protection against a single source GPS ephemeris fault in differential GPS positioning by generating an H1 and final protection level from the N number of N 1 positions. Each differential GPS satellite measurement can include ephemeris information for a GPS satellite.

The H1 monitor can include an N 1 solution module an H1 bias module and an H1 protection level module . The N 1 solution module can be configured to calculate the N 1 position by removing one differential measurement from the differential global positioning system GPS satellite in the plurality of N GPS satellites from the differential measurements of the plurality of N GPS satellites. The H1 bias module can be configure to calculate a position bias between the N 1 positions and a N position where in the N position uses the differential measurements of the plurality of N GPS satellites. The H1 protection level module can be configured to calculate an H1 protection level for each of the N 1 positions using the position bias and select a largest H1 protection level from a group of H1 protection level representing the N 1 positions. The N position can be calculated from the differential measurements of at least five GPS satellites and the N 1 position can be calculated from the differential measurements of at least four GPS satellites. In an example the N 1 positions can use one less GPS satellite than the N position. The H1 protection level can represent an apriori probability of a single GPS ephemeris fault. In another example the ephemeris H1 monitor can receive inputs of ephemeris information for N GPS satellites and GPS measurements from a base receiver or a user receiver for N GPS satellites and can generate an output of a final protection level .

In another configuration the ephemeris H1 monitor can also include an H0 protection level module and a protection level determination module . The H0 protection level module configured to calculate an H0 protection level from the N position wherein the H0 protection level represents a fault free protection level. In another example the H0 protection level module can provide a H0 relative navigation RelNav solution A B which can provide feedback for a H1 bias module or a final relative navigation solution . The protection level determination module configured to generate a final protection level by selecting the larger of the H0 protection level and the H1 protection level. The H1 protection level module can be further configured to calculate an H1 protection level from the position bias and a prior probability for a GPS ephemeris fault. In another example the relative navigation processor can be included in a differential global positioning system DGPS processor and or a GPS receiver not shown .

In another configuration a system with a user global positioning system GPS receiver can generate a H1 protection level from an N 1 position. The user GPS receiver can be configured to receive ephemeris information from a plurality of N GPS satellites and receive a position of at least one reference GPS receiver. The user GPS receiver can move independently of the at least one reference GPS receiver. The user GPS receiver can include a differential global positioning system DGPS processor configured to generate an H1 protection level from an N 1 position. The N 1 position can be derived from measurements from a plurality of N 1 GPS satellites and N GPS satellites can be in view and measurements from a GPS satellite in the plurality of N GPS satellites include ephemeris information for the GPS satellite. The plurality of N GPS satellites can include at least five GPS satellites and the plurality of N 1 GPS satellites can include one less than the plurality of N GPS satellites and can include at least four GPS satellites. The user GPS receiver can be further configured to receive ephemeris information from the plurality of N GPS satellites received by the at least one reference GPS receiver.

The DGPS processor can be configured to calculate N relative position vectors Pfor the N 1 position representing each satellite k removed from the calculation calculate N position biases Bfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane and calculate an H1 protection level PLfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane. The Pfor the N 1 position can be represented by where P represents a fault free relative position vector function Rare measurements from a reference receiver to each of N common satellites in view except a satellite k Rare measurements from user receiver to each of the N common satellites in view except the satellite k are error bounds for reference measurements to each satellite i except the satellite k are error bounds for user measurements to each satellite i except the satellite k and are the error bounds on the differential range measurements to each satellite i except satellite k due to environmental effects. The Bfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane can be represented by B P P where P P R R . The H1 protection level PLfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane can be represented by

In another example the DGPS processor can be further configured to calculate an H0 protection level PLfor the position using each of the N common satellites in view and generate a final protection level PL. The H0 protection level PLfor the position using each of the N common satellites in view can be represented by PL PL P P P PIR where Pare the positions of each of the N common satellites in view indexed by i are error bounds for reference measurements to each satellite i are error bounds for user measurements to each satellite i and are the error bounds on the differential range measurements to each satellite i due to environmental effects and PIRis a probability of integrity risk allocated for each H0 fault free protection level in the vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane. The final protection level PLcan be represented by

Another example provides a method for generating a H1 protection level from an N 1 position in a global positioning system GPS receiver as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of generating an H1 protection level from an N 1 position wherein the N 1 position is derived by removing a differential measurement from a specified global positioning system GPS satellite in a plurality of GPS satellites from measurements of the plurality of GPS satellites and measurements from a GPS satellite include ephemeris information for the GPS satellite as in block .

The operation of generating an H1 protection level from an N 1 position can further include calculating the N 1 position by removing a differential measurement from the specified global positioning system GPS satellite in a plurality of GPS satellites from the differential measurements of the plurality of GPS satellites calculating a position bias between the N 1 position and a N position where in the N position uses the differential measurements of the plurality of N GPS satellites and calculating an H1 protection level by combining the position bias and the N 1 position protection level given apriori satellite fault.

The method can further include calculating an H0 protection level from the N position and generating a final protection level by selecting the larger of the H0 protection level and the H1 protection level. The H0 protection level can represent a fault free protection level. In an example the N position can be calculated from the measurements of at least five GPS satellites and the N 1 position can be calculated from the measurements of at least four GPS satellites.

In another configuration the operation of generating an H1 protection level from an N 1 position can further include calculating N relative position vectors Pfor the N 1 position representing each satellite k removed from the calculation calculating N position biases Bfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane and calculating an H1 protection level PLfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane. The Pfor the N 1 position the Bfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane and the H1 protection level PLfor each value of k and in each vertical V lateral L and horizontal H plane can be defined by equations shown above in relation to the system with the user GPS receiver that can generate a H1 protection level from an N 1 position.

In another example the method can further include calculating an H0 protection level PLfor the position using each of the N common satellites in view and generating a final protection level PL. The H0 protection level PLfor the position using each of the N common satellites in view and the final protection level PLcan be defined by equations shown above in relation to the system with the user GPS receiver that can generate a H1 protection level from an N 1 position.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The positioning systems GPS receivers and or monitors may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

