---

title: Method; apparatus and computer program product for moving a UE context application service handover between access nodes
abstract: A telecommunications network is accessible to a user equipment via at least a first access node or a second access node. For supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the user equipment via the first access node or via the second access node, a first application service platform is provided at the first access node, and a second application service platform is provided at the second access node. Via the first application service platform at the first access node an application service is provided to the user equipment which is connected to the first access node. At handover of the user equipment from the first access node to the second access node, a context of the user equipment is moved from the application service platform at the first access node to the second application service platform at the second access node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635594&OS=09635594&RS=09635594
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ)
number: 09635594
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20121015
---
The present invention relates to methods for providing an application service in a telecommunications network and to corresponding devices.

In telecommunications networks e.g. as specified by 3GPP 3Generation Partnership Project it is known to provide application services to users of the telecommunications network. Examples of such applications services are Internet Protocol IP based multimedia services. One possibility is to provide the application services by application servers in a core network of the telecommunications network. A further possibility is to add an application service AS platform at nodes of an access network of the telecommunications network. Examples of such access nodes are nodes of a Radio Access Network RAN of a cellular mobile telecommunications system such as a Radio Network Controller RNC of the UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or a base station of the evolved UTRAN E UTRAN according to 3GPP LTE Long Term Evolution referred to as E UTRAN Node B eNB . Such AS platform may be implemented as an open computing platform which can hosts applications provided by the operator of the telecommunications network and also applications provided by other parties.

In a typical scenario a user equipment UE connected to the telecommunications network via a given access node would access an application running on the AS platform at this access node. The AS platform could then expose useful information available at the access node to the application e.g. information on radio channel characteristics UE identifiers or the like.

However due to mobility of the UE it may also occur that the access node which is used by the UE for connecting to the telecommunications network changes. This may result in a scenario in which the application is running on the AS platform at one access node but the UE uses another access node for connecting to the telecommunications network. This may adversely affect usability of the application service e.g. to a lack of information from the access node.

Accordingly there is a need for techniques which allow for efficiently addressing such scenarios and providing an AS platform at an access node with valuable information even the access node via which the UE connects to the telecommunications network changes.

According to an embodiment of the invention a method of providing an application service in a telecommunications network is provided. The telecommunications network is accessible to a UE via at least a first access node or a second access node. According to the method an AS platform is provided at the first access node. Further an AS platform is provided at the second access node. The AS platform at the first access node is for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the first access node. The AS platform at the second access node is for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the second access node. Via the AS platform at the first access node an application service is provided to the UE which is connected to the first access node. At handover of the UE from the first access node to the second access node a context of the UE is moved from the AS platform at the first access node to the AS platform at the second access node.

According to a further embodiment of the invention a network node is provided. The network node comprises an access node for providing access of a UE to a telecommunications network. Further the network node comprises an AS platform for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the access node. The network node is configured to provide via the AS platform an application service to the UE connected to the access node and at handover of the UE from the access node to a further access node move a context of the UE from the AS platform at the access node to an AS platform at the further access node.

According to a further embodiment of the invention a network node is provided. The network node comprises an access node for providing access of a UE to a telecommunications network. Further the network node comprises an AS platform for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the access node. The network node is configured to provide via the AS platform an application service to the UE connected to the access node and at handover of the UE from a further access node to the access node move a context of the UE from an AS platform at the further access node to the AS platform at the access node.

According to a further embodiment of the invention a computer program product is provided. The computer program product comprises program code to be executed by a processor of a network node thereby configuring the network node to operate in accordance with the above method.

In the following the invention will be explained in more detail by referring to exemplary embodiments and to the accompanying drawings. The illustrated embodiments relate to concepts of providing an application service in a telecommunications network. In the illustrated embodiments the telecommunications network implements a 3GPP cellular radio access technology. However it is to be understood that these concepts could also be implemented in other types of telecommunications network and using other cellular or non cellular access technology.

In addition the network node includes an AS platform for providing one or more application services to one or more UEs connected to the telecommunications network. The AS platform may be implemented by software structures utilizing hardware and or software structures of the base platform . The AS platform in turn may support an application environment for hosting one or more applications in the illustrated example shown as APP APP APP . Each application may be designed for providing a corresponding application service to the UEs. The applications may be provided by the operator of the telecommunications network and or by some other party. The AS platform may also connect to other network nodes or external nodes e.g. for network management and control.

As can be seen the AS platform is integrated in the network node to provide application services at the network node . In this way network and or processing load for providing the application services may be efficiently distributed in the telecommunications network.

The AS platform may be regarded as a middleware between the base platform and the applications running in the application environment. The AS platform may provide functionalities such as basic communication methods and control mechanisms e.g. allowing the application services to communicate with each other with other external applications and or with other functionalities implemented by the hardware and or software structures of the network node . In the example of the functionalities provided by the AS platform are referred to as network information services NIS network traffic services network integration services and communication services. The network traffic services functionality may for example provide routing and priority of UE traffic streams between the access node and one or more applications running on the AS platform or between the access node and Internet. The network integration services may provide interfaces to existing CN functionality relating to e.g. policy control charging and lawful legal interception. Network traffic services and network integration services may be provided for example by functionalities which are similar to those as typically implemented by a user plane gateway. The communication services may provide functionalities used for communications between applications running on the AS platform and other of the functionalities of the AS platform .

The functionality referred to as NIS has the purpose of exposing information about the network node and its connected UEs to the applications running in the application environment . The information about the network node may for example include a number of connected UEs e.g. as identified by a Radio Resource Control RRC functionality of the network node an average of transmit powers controlled by the network node an average throughput of a cell controlled by the network node an average delay of packets buffered by the network node an average High Speed HS code utilization e.g. average utilization of High Speed Packet Access HSPA channelization codes or the like. Such information about a UE may include an identifier of the UE e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI associated with the UE a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN associated with the UE a Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity TMSI associated with the UE a Global Unique Temporary Identity GUTI of the UE an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI of the UE or a Radio Network Temporary Identity RNTI assigned to the UE. Further such information about a UE may include radio channel information such as a RRC State indication for the UE a serving cell Reference Signal Received Power RSRP or signal to noise and or interference measure like Ec No Chip energy to Noise spectral density ratio measured by the UE a Channel Quality Indicator CQI determined by the UE a transmit power of the UE or the like. The information may be divided into RAN information as typically available at an access node e.g. an eNB or an RNC and core network CN information as typically available at CN nodes of the telecommunications network e.g. at a gateway node. The RAN information may include the GUTI TMSI RNTI RRC state indication serving cell RSRP or Ec No ratio transmit powers average transmit powers CQI cell throughput or the like. The CN information may include the IMSI IMEI MSISDN UE IP address or the like.

The NIS functionality may aggregate such information and make the information available to the applications running in the application environment e.g. through an Application Programming Interface to facilitate usage of the information by applications from various parties. Such API could also be provided by a specific API aggregation application running in the application environment.

One example of the above applications that may be realized on the basis of the AS platform and utilizes the information provided by the network information services functionality is a Transport Control Protocol TCP proxy that changes the TCP congestion window as a function of the radio network information it gets via the NIS functionality or via an API aggregation application .

An exemplary implementation of the AS platform at a 3GPP LTE base station BS i.e. an eNB is further illustrated in . In this implementation a network node A includes the BS A and the AS platform AS PF A. By way of example applications are illustrated as being implemented on the basis of the AS platform A. Further the network node A also includes a gateway node GW A for carrying user plane data between the UE and the Internet . In accordance with the illustrated LTE scenario the gateway node A may implement a Serving Gateway SGW and or Packet Data Network Gateway PGW . The network node A may be implemented on the basis of a common base platform as illustrated in and or on the basis of multiple co located devices. For example a device implementing the BS A and the AS platform A could be co located with a further device implementing the gateway node A or a device implementing the BS A could be co located with a further device implementing the gateway node A and the AS platform A. In the following co location of certain nodes is considered to cover both implementation of the nodes in the same device e.g. on the basis of a common base platform as illustrated in and implementation of the nodes in different but co located devices.

Further illustrates exemplary nodes of a CN namely a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF a Mobility Management Entity MME and a Home Subscriber Server HSS .

In the implementation of co locating the gateway node A with the BS A allows for efficiently using the gateway node A as a decision point for selectively directing user plane data of the UE to the AS platform A or to the Internet . Further mechanisms of the gateway node A can be utilized for applying charging policy enforcement and or lawful interception also to the user plane data between the UE and the AS service platform A.

A further exemplary implementation of the AS platform at a 3GPP LTE BS is illustrated in . As compared to the implementation of a first gateway node A implementing an SGW is co located with the BS A and a second gateway node is located in the CN e.g. at a switching site. In this implementation the AS platform A is arranged in terms of network communication between the first gateway node A and the second gateway node i.e. between the SGW and the PGW. Accordingly routing of user plane data between the UE and the Internet may occur via the first gateway node A at the BS A and via the second gateway node in the CN . Routing of user plane traffic between the UE and the AS platform A may occur via the first gateway node A directly to the AS platform A without passing the second gateway node .

A still further exemplary implementation of the AS platform at a 3GPP LTE BS is illustrated in . As compared to the implementations of a gateway node is located in the CN e.g. at a switching site. The gateway node may implement an SGW and or PGW. In this implementation the AS platform A is arranged in terms of network communication below the gateway node i.e. below the SGW and the PGW. Accordingly routing of user plane data between the UE and the Internet may occur via the gateway node in the CN . Routing of user plane traffic between the UE and the AS platform A may occur via the BS A directly to the AS platform A without passing the gateway node .

In the implementation of co locating the gateway node A with the RNC A and the AS platform A allows for efficiently using the gateway node A as a decision point for selectively directing data traffic of the UE to the AS platform A or to the Internet . Further mechanisms of the gateway node A can be utilized for applying charging policy enforcement and or lawful interception also to the data traffic between the UE and the AS service platform A.

In the implementations of the UE may use an application service provided by one of the applications . The user plane data would then be routed to the AS platform A and to the corresponding application . This application may in turn access the Internet as needed. Through the AS platform A in particular through a NIS functionality as mentioned above the application may also obtain information on the UE as available from UE context data at the BS A or at the RNC A e.g. GUTI RNTI RRC State indication serving cell RSRP or Ec No ratio CQI UE transmit power or the like. Such information will in the following also be referred to as UE context data of the access node. As used herein the UE context data of the access node include information related to the UE which are available at the access node. The UE context data may vary from one access node to the other. The UE context data of the access node is typically radio related and may include temporary identifiers such as GUTI or RNTI. UE context data may also be available at other nodes e.g. at the gateway nodes A A . UE context data of such gateway nodes is typically related to a subscription of the UE and may include permanent identifiers such as IMSI IMEI or MSISDN.

In addition the application may also obtain information on the access node itself i.e. on the BS A or the RNC A. Such information may include a number of connected UEs an average transmit power an average cell throughput an average delay of buffered packets and or an average HS code utilization as mentioned above. Through the AS platform A the application may also obtain information on the UE as available at the gateway node A A or e.g. IMSI IMEI IP address or the like.

The concepts as illustrated in the following have the purpose of addressing situations in which the UE is connected to one access node and uses an application running on the AS platform at this access node and then performs a handover to another access node equipped with such AS platform. As used herein a handover is considered to be a procedure in which the UE changes between different connection configurations involving one or both of the access nodes including handover from one BS to another soft handover procedures and serving RNC relocation procedures. Although the concepts will be explained in relation to an architecture in which a gateway node is co located with the access node and the AS platform as illustrated in it is to be understood that the concepts could also be applied in connection with other arrangements of gateway nodes e.g. as illustrated in .

If the gateway node is co located with the access node and the AS platform RAN information available at the access node and optionally also CN information available at the gateway node may be obtained at the access node to which the UE is connected. However due to a handover of the UE this access node may become different from the access node at which the AS service platform providing the application service is located. This may require continued provision of information from the access node to which the UE is connected to a remote AS platform. In some situations e.g. in the case of an application service with low latency requirements such transfer of information may cause undesirable delay.

If the gateway node is not co located with the access node and the AS platform similar problems may arise. Further in such arrangements anchoring the application service at a particular access node may require complex routing of user plane traffic between the UE and the remote AS platform.

In order to address such situations the concepts as described herein involve that a context of the UE at a first AS platform is moved to a second AS platform when the UE is handed over from a source access node co located with first AS platform to a target access node co located with the second AS platform. In this connection the context of the UE is considered to include UE related information as available at the AS platform and used for providing the application service s . Such information will in the following also be referred to as AS platform context data of the UE. Moving of the context typically includes transferring AS platform context data of the UE from the first AS platform to the second AS platform and also moving the responsibility of maintaining or updating the AS platform context data of the UE as typically accomplished by execution of the corresponding application. This moving of the context may be accomplished at the handover i.e. in connection with and typically before during or after the handover of the UE e.g. in the course of a handover preparation procedure or in connection with handover confirmation signalling after completing the handover. The handover may involve switching of the connection of the UE from one access node to another access node and may be accomplished with handover preparation signalling or without handover preparation signalling. The process of moving the context may be performed in connection with the handover procedure e.g. be triggered together with or by the handover procedure. Accordingly handover related control signalling may at least in part be used for the moving of the context. By moving the context of the UE between the AS platforms the application service can be provided to the UE via the AS platform at the access node to which the UE is connected and delays and complex transfer of information can be avoided. By using handover related control signalling for moving the context early relocation of the application service to the AS platform at the target access node becomes possible.

In some implementations the source access node may provide an indication of the handover to the first AS platform at the source access node. This indication may for example indicate that a handover of the UE to the target access node is may be required. This indication may be accomplished before handover preparation signalling in parallel to handover preparation signalling or after handover preparation signalling. The source access node may also provide an identity of the target access node to the second AS platform. The first AS platform may also provide a corresponding indication to the application s running on the first AS platform.

In response to the indication the first AS platform at the source access node may initiate the moving of the context to the second AS platform at the target access node e.g. by application layer signalling between the first AS platform and the second AS platform. Application layer signalling may also be used for sending the AS platform context data of the UE from the first AS platform to the second AS platform. In such processes the first AS platform may use the identity of the target access node for locating the second AS platform.

In some implementations the source access node may obtain the AS platform context data from the first AS platform at the source access node and sending the AS platform context data the target access node e.g. in a handover preparation message. For such purposes one or more RAN Transparent containers may be used. The RAN transparent containers are information elements in which any information can be inserted. The inserted information will be transferred unmodified i.e. transparently from the source access node to the target access node. The target access node may then receive the AS platform context data from the source access node and provide the AS platform context data to the second application service platform at the target access node.

In some implementations the target access node may obtain an identity of the source access node e.g. during handover preparation signalling and provide the identity of the source access node to the second AS platform at the target access node. The second AS platform may then use the identity of the source access node to locate the first AS platform at the source access node from which the AS platform context data of the UE can be obtained. Accordingly the second AS platform at the target access node may use the identity of the source access node for obtaining the AS platform context data from the first AS platform at the source access node. The second AS platform at the target access node may obtain the AS platform context data by application layer signalling with the first AS platform at the source access node.

In also a NIS functionality A of the AS platform A is illustrated which has the purpose of aggregating information from the BS A e.g. information relating to the UE while connected to the BS A and optionally information on the BS A itself and information from the gateway node A so as to expose it to applications. A similar NIS functionality B is provided at the further AS platform B and has the purpose of aggregating information from the further BS B e.g. information related to the UE while connected to further BS B and optionally information on the further BS B itself and information from the further gateway node B. The NIS functionalities A B may be implemented as application running on the respective AS platform A B. In an application is illustrated as being implemented on the basis of the AS platform A. The same application is also be implemented on the basis of the AS platform B.

In the scenario of it is assumed that the UE initially was connected to the telecommunications network via the BS A and an application service was provided to the UE through the application running on the AS platform A and the UE was then handed over to the further BS B. In the course of this handover also the application service provided by the application was relocated from the AS platform A at the BS A to the further AS platform B at the BS B. In the illustrated resulting situation the UE then uses the further BS B for connecting to the telecommunications network and the application service is provided to the UE by the application running on the further AS platform B.

Further illustrates the PCRF MME and HSS . From such CN nodes control plane connections to the nodes of the RAN serving the UE may be established. In the illustrated example the PCRF has a control plane connection to the gateway node B via an interface referred to as Gx and the MME has a control plane connection to the gateway node B via an interface referred to as S11 and a control plane connection to the further BS B via an interface referred to as S1 MME.

In also a NIS functionality A of the AS platform A is illustrated which has the purpose of aggregating information from the RNC A e.g. information related to the UE while connected to the RNC A and optionally information on the RNC A itself and information from the gateway node A so as to expose it to applications. A similar NIS functionality B is provided at the further AS platform B and has the purpose of aggregating information from the further RNC B e.g. information related to the UE while connected to further RNC B and optionally information on the further RNC B itself and information from the further gateway node B . The NIS functionalities A B may be implemented as application running on the respective AS platform A B. In an application is illustrated as being implemented on the basis of the AS platform A. The same application is also be implemented on the basis of the AS platform B.

In the scenario of it is assumed that the UE initially was connected via the RNC A and BS A and an application service was provided to the UE through the application running on the AS platform A and that the UE was then handed over to the further BS B and RNC B. In the course of this handover also the application service provided by the application was relocated from the AS platform A at the BS A to the further AS platform B. In the illustrated resulting situation the UE then uses the further BS B for connecting to the telecommunications network and the application service is provided to the UE by the application running on the further AS platform B.

Further illustrates the PCRF HLR and MSC S . From such CN nodes control plane connections to the nodes of the RAN serving the UE may be established. In the illustrated example the PCRF uses the Gx interface for establishing a control plane connection to the gateway node B .

In the following exemplary procedures for implementing the relocation of the application service from a first AS platform AS PF A at the source access node AN A A of a handover to a second AS platform AS PF B at the target access node AN B B of the handover will be further explained by referring to the signalling diagrams of . As indicated by the reference numerals the access nodes may correspond to the above BSs A B or to the above RNCs A B.

In the exemplary procedures of the source access node A A informs the AS platform A at the source access node A A that a handover of the UE to another access node i.e. to the target access node B B may be required. This may also include informing the application s running on the first AS platform A of the anticipated handover. In the procedures of the indication of the anticipated handover is included in handover preparation signalling between the source access node A A and the target access node B B.

Initially a situation as for example illustrated in may exist. That is to say the UE may be connected via the source access node A A and the UE may access the CN and or the Internet via the source access node A A as illustrated by messages and . Further one or more application services may be provided to the UE by executing one or more applications on the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by messages . In such situation a context of the UE is maintained at the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by step .

Maintaining the context of the UE at the AS platform A involves storing and or updating AS platform context data related to the UE and to the application s running on the AS platform A for providing the application service to the UE . The AS platform context data typically include information related to the application s running on the AS platform A e.g. information on used applications information on transaction states information on current active sessions information on open connections information on packet statistics or the like. The AS platform context data may also include information related to the UE and or to a subscriber associated with the UE e.g. IMSI GUTI TMSI RNTI IMEI RRC State indication serving cell RSRP or Ec No CQI transmit power or the like. In some cases the AS platform context data may also include information related to the source access node itself e.g. a number of connected UEs an average transmit power an average cell throughput an average delay of buffered packets and or an average HS code utilization. Part of the AS platform context data may be provided to the AS platform A from the source access node A A and or from a gateway node e.g. the gateway node A A . Another part of the AS platform context data may be generated at the AS platform A e.g. through execution of the application s for providing the application service s to the UE .

As indicated by step in this situation a handover need may be detected by the source access node A A. For example measurements performed by the UE and reported to the source access node A A may indicate that a handover to the target access node B B is needed. The handover need may also be identified with respect to multiple candidate target access nodes and some of the following procedures in preparation of the actual handover may be applied in parallel to several or all candidate target access mo. The following explanations will however focus on the access node to which the handover would actually be performed.

By message the source access node A A indicates the handover need to the AS platform A at the source access node A A. In the illustrated example this indication also includes the identity of the target access node B B e.g. in terms of an identifier of the target access node B B itself and or in terms of an identifier of a cell served by the target access node B B.

The AS platform A at the source access node A A may then locate the AS platform B at the target access node B B. For this purpose as indicated by messages the AS platform at the source access node A A may communicate with a locator function . The locator function may for example be provided by a node in the CN and be based on databases storing addresses of AS platforms in the telecommunications network in relation to the identity of the access node at which a given AS platform is located. The AS platform A may for example locate the AS platform B by obtaining an identity of the AS platform B at the target access node B B e.g. in terms of a network address through which application layer communication with the AS platform B is possible.

Using the identity of the AS platform B at the target access node B B the AS platform A at the source access node A A may then send a message to the AS platform B at the target access node B B. The message may be based on application layer signalling such as Extensible Markup Language XML over Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and include a command to move the context of the UE from the AS platform A to the AS platform B. Further the message may include the AS platform context data of the UE as currently stored by the AS platform A. In some implementations also separate messages may be used for transmitting the command to move the context and the AS platform context data of the UE .

Subsequently as indicated by step the AS platform B at the target access node B B maintains the context of the UE . This may involve storing the AS platform context data as received from the AS platform A at the source access node B B as well as updating the AS platform context data. For this purpose the application used to provide the application service s to the UE may be executed on the AS platform B at the target access node B B.

By messages and the source access node A A and target access node B B may then prepare the handover. This may involve various types of handover preparation procedures. For example if the source and target access nodes A B correspond to eNBs the message may be a handover request transmitted via a direct interface between the eNBs referred to as X2 and the message may be a handover response transmitted via the X2 interface between the eNBs. Alternatively other types of messages may be used e.g. handover preparations transmitted indirectly via an interface to the MME referred to as S1 MME. If the source and target access nodes A B correspond to RNCs handover preparation messages could be transmitted directly via the lur interface or indirectly via the SGSN.

Handover execution is indicated by step . Handover execution typically involves establishing a connection between the UE and the target access node B B.

After executing the handover a situation as for example illustrated in may exist. That is to say the UE is connected to the target access node B B and the application service may be provided to the UE via the AS platform B at the target access node B B as illustrated by messages .

In the exemplary procedures of the source access node A A may request the context of the UE to be moved from the AS platform A at the source access node A A. This is accomplished before handover preparation signalling is performed. The source access node A A then obtains the AS platform context data of the UE from the AS platform A at the source access node A A and includes the AS platform context data into the handover preparation signalling to the target access node B B e.g. into a RAN Transparent container. The target access node B B can then provide the AS platform context data of the UE to the AS platform B at the target access node B B.

Initially a situation as for example illustrated in may exist. That is to say the UE may be connected via the source access node A A and the UE may access the CN and or the Internet via the source access node A A as illustrated by messages and . Further one or more application service s may be provided to the UE by executing one or more applications on via the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by messages . In such situation a context of the UE is maintained at the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by step .

Maintaining the context of the UE at the AS platform A involves storing and or updating AS platform context data related to the UE and to the application s running on the AS platform A for providing the application service to the UE . The AS platform context data typically include information related to the application s running on the AS platform A e.g. information on used applications information on transaction states information on current active sessions information on open connections information on packet statistics or the like. The AS platform context data may also include information related to the UE and or to a subscriber associated with the UE e.g. IMSI GUTI TMSI RNTI IMEI RRC State indication serving cell RSRP or Ec No CQI transmit power or the like. In some cases the AS platform context data may also include information related to the source access node itself e.g. a number of connected UEs an average transmit power an average cell throughput an average delay of buffered packets and or an average HS code utilization. Part of the AS platform context data may be provided to the AS platform A from the source access node A A and or from a gateway node e.g. the gateway node A A . Another part of the AS platform context data may be generated at the AS platform A e.g. through execution of the application s for providing the application service s to the UE .

As indicated by step in this situation a handover need may be detected by the source access node A A. For example measurements performed by the UE and reported to the source access node A A may indicate that a handover to the target access node B B is needed.

In response to the handover need the source access node A A retrieves the AS platform context data of the UE from the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by messages . Messages may include a request from the source access node A A to the AS platform A at the source access node A A and a response from the AS platform A to the source access node A A.

By messages and the source access node A A and target access node B B may then prepare the handover. This may involve various types of handover preparation procedures. For example if the source and target access nodes A B correspond to eNBs the message may be a handover request transmitted via a direct interface between the eNBs referred to as X2 and the message may be a handover response transmitted via the X2 interface between the eNBs. Alternatively other types of messages may be used e.g. handover preparations transmitted indirectly via an interface to the MME referred to as S1 MME. If the source and target access nodes A B correspond to RNCs handover preparation messages could be transmitted directly via the lur interface or indirectly via the SGSN. The source access node A A includes the AS platform context data of the UE in an outgoing handover preparation message and the target access node B B then receives the AS platform context data with an incoming handover preparation message. As mentioned above such handover preparation messages may be transmitted directly or indirectly between the source access node A A and the target access node B B. The AS platform context data of the UE may be included into a RAN Transparent container of such messages. If the target access node B corresponds to an eNB the information element Source eNB to Target eNB Transparent Container as defined in 3GPP Technical Specification 36.413 may be used for this purpose. If the target access node B corresponds to a UTRAN RNC the information element Source RNC to Target RNC Transparent Container as defined in 3GPP Technical Specification 25.413 may be used for this purpose. If the target access node B corresponds to a GERAN BSC the information element Source BSS to Target BSS Transparent Container as defined in 3GPP Technical Specification 48.018 may be used for this purpose.

The target access node B B then provides the received AS platform context data to the AS platform B at the target access node B B as indicated by message .

Subsequently as indicated by step the AS platform B at the target access node B B maintains the context of the UE . This may involve storing the AS platform context data as received through the handover preparation signalling as well as updating the AS platform context data. For this purpose the application used to provide the application service s to the UE may be executed on the AS platform B at the target access node B B.

Handover execution is indicated by step . Handover execution typically involves establishing a connection between the UE and the target access node B B.

After executing the handover a situation as for example illustrated in may exist. That is to say the UE is connected to the target access node B B and the application service may be provided to the UE via the AS platform B at the target access node B B as illustrated by messages .

In the procedures of the target access node B B uses handover preparation signalling to obtain information about the source access node A A in particular an identity of the source access node A A e.g. in terms of an identifier if the source access node A A itself and or an identifier of a cell served by the source access node A A. The target access node B B then provides this information to the AS platform B at the target access node B B. The AS platform B at the target access node B B may then use this information to locate the AS platform A at the source access node A A and retrieve the AS platform context data of the UE .

Initially a situation as for example illustrated in may exist. That is to say the UE may be connected via the source access node A A and the UE may access the CN and or the Internet via the source access node A A as illustrated by messages and . Further one or more application services may be provided to the UE by executing one or more applications on the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by messages . In such situation a context of the UE is maintained at the AS platform A at the source access node A A as illustrated by step .

Maintaining the context of the UE at the AS platform A involves storing and or updating AS platform context data related to the UE and to the application s running on the AS platform A for providing the application service to the UE . The AS platform context data typically include information related to the application s running on the AS platform A e.g. information on used applications information on transaction states information on current active sessions information on open connections information on packet statistics or the like. The AS platform context data may also include information related to the UE and or to a subscriber associated with the UE e.g. IMSI GUTI TMSI RNTI IMEI RRC State indication serving cell RSRP or Ec No CQI transmit power or the like. In some cases the AS platform context data may also include information related to the source access node itself e.g. a number of connected UEs an average transmit power an average cell throughput an average delay of buffered packets and or an average HS code utilization. Part of the AS platform context data may be provided to the AS platform A from the source access node A A and or from a gateway node e.g. the gateway node A A . Another part of the AS platform context data may be generated at the AS platform A e.g. through execution of the application s for providing the application service s to the UE .

As indicated by step in this situation a handover need may be detected by the source access node A A. For example measurements performed by the UE and reported to the source access node A A may indicate that a handover to the target access node B B is needed.

By messages and the source access node A A and target access node B B may then prepare the handover. This may involve various types of handover preparation procedures. For example if the source and target access nodes A B correspond to eNBs the message may be a handover request transmitted via a direct interface between the eNBs referred to as X2 and the message may be a handover response transmitted via the X2 interface between the eNBs. Alternatively other types of messages may be used e.g. handover preparations transmitted indirectly via an interface to the MME referred to as S1 MME. If the source and target access nodes A B correspond to RNCs handover preparation messages could be transmitted directly via the lur interface or indirectly via the SGSN.

From the received handover preparation message s the target access node B B obtains the identity of the source access node A A. For example the received handover preparation messages may include the identity of the source access node A A in terms of an identifier of the source access node A A itself and or in terms of an identifier of a cell served by the source access node A A. The target access node B B may store the identity of the source access node A A e.g. until a handover decision is taken at the end of handover preparation or until handover execution is successfully completed. Further as illustrated by message the target access node B B provides the identity of the source access node A A to the AS platform B at the target access node B B. In the example of this is assumed to be accomplished immediately after handover preparation.

The AS platform B at the target access node B B may then locate the AS platform A at the source access node A A. For this purpose as indicated by messages the AS platform B at the target access node B B may communicate with a locator function . The locator function may for example be provided by a node in the CN and be based on databases storing addresses of AS platforms in the telecommunications network in relation to the identity of the access node at which a given AS platform is located. The AS platform B may for example locate the AS platform A by obtaining an identity of the AS platform A at the source access node A A e.g. in terms of a network address through which application layer communication with the AS platform A is possible.

Using the identity of the AS platform A at the source access node A A the AS platform B at the target access node B B may then communicate with the AS platform A at the source access node A A to retrieve the AS platform context data of the UE from the AS platform A as illustrated by messages . The messages may be based on application layer signalling such as XML over HTTP and include a request for the AS platform context data which is transmitted from the AS platform B to the AS platform A and a response to such request which is transmitted from the AS platform A to the AS platform B. Such response may include the AS platform context data of the UE as currently stored by the AS platform A.

Subsequently as indicated by step the AS platform B at the target access node B B maintains the context of the UE . This may involve storing the AS platform context data as received from the AS platform A at the source access node B B as well as updating the AS platform context data. For this purpose the application used to provide the application service s to the UE may be executed on the AS platform B at the target access node B B.

Handover execution is indicated by step . Handover execution typically involves establishing a connection between the UE and the target access node B B.

After executing the handover a situation as for example illustrated in may exist. That is to say the UE is connected to the target access node B B and the application service may be provided to the UE via the AS platform B at the target access node B B as illustrated by messages .

In the above example the retrieval of the AS platform context data of the UE is described as being appended to the handover preparation signalling. However this retrieval could also be performed in relation to some other process e.g. after completing handover execution at step . The above example can also be modified to cases in which the handover preparation signalling is not performed at all. Instead the UE may move to the target node without any handover preparation signalling and may provide the source access node identity to the target access node B B as part of the connection establishment to the target access node B B. The target access node may then provide the source access node identity to the target AS Platform B and thereafter the procedures starting with message may be performed.

In the above procedures handover preparation signalling may be used to convey information between the source access node A A and the target access node B B. Exemplary handover preparation procedures in a 3GPP LTE scenario are further illustrated in .

In handover preparation over the LTE X2 interface between the source eNB ENB A and target eNB ENB B is illustrated. As illustrated the handover preparation procedure involves transmitting a first message referred to as Handover Request from the source eNB A to the target eNB B. In some implementations the message may be used for conveying the command to move the context of the UE . Further the message may also convey the AS platform context data. For conveying the command and or AS platform context data the information element referred to as Source eNB to Target eNB Transparent Container specified in 3GPP Technical Specification 36.413 may be used.

Further the handover preparation procedure of involves transmitting a second message referred to as Handover Request Acknowledge from the target eNB B to the source eNB A.

In handover preparation over the LTE S1 interfaces between the source eNB ENB A and MME and between the target eNB B ENB and MME is illustrated. As illustrated the handover preparation procedure involves transmitting a first message referred to as Handover Required from the source eNB A to the MME and transmitting a second message referred to as Handover Request from the MME to the target eNB B. In some implementations the messages may be used for conveying the command to move the context of the UE . Further the message may also convey the AS platform context data. For conveying the command and or AS platform context data the information element referred to as Source eNB to Target eNB Transparent Container specified in 3GPP Technical Specification 36.413 may be used.

Further the handover preparation procedure involves transmitting a third message referred to as Handover Request Acknowledge from the target eNB B to the MME and transmitting a fourth message referred to as Handover Command from MME to the source eNB A.

As can be seen the concepts as described above may be used for efficiently addressing UE mobility while providing an application service via an AS platform co located with an access node. This can be achieved by integrating mobility on the application level with handover procedures. In this way mobility of certain application services relying on detailed information on a UE and its currently used access characteristics can be provided in an efficient manner e.g. application services based on stateful proxying stateful packet inspection or the like.

It is to be understood that the examples and embodiments as explained above are merely illustrative and susceptible to various modifications. For example the concepts could be used in connection with various types of telecommunications networks e.g. implementing other types of radio access technologies. Also it is to be understood that various types of access technology could be combined in the same telecommunications network e.g. LTE access nodes and UMTS GPRS access nodes as mentioned above and that handovers may also occur between such different types of access technologies.

Moreover it is to be understood that the above concepts may be implemented by using correspondingly designed software to be executed by one or more processors of an existing device or by using dedicated device hardware. Also the nodes as described herein may be implemented by a single device or by multiple devices e.g. a device cloud or server farm.

