---

title: Substituted annellated pyrimidines and use thereof
abstract: The present application relates to novel substituted annellated pyrimidines, methods for production thereof, use thereof alone or in combinations for treating and/or preventing diseases and use thereof for the production of medicinal products for treating and/or preventing diseases, in particular for treating and/or preventing cardiovascular diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08859569&OS=08859569&RS=08859569
owner: Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
number: 08859569
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120830
---
The present application relates to novel substituted annellated pyrimidines methods of production thereof use thereof alone or in combinations for treating and or preventing diseases and use thereof for the production of medicinal products for treating and or preventing diseases in particular for treating and or preventing cardiovascular diseases.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. The guanylate cyclases catalyse the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The currently known representatives of this family can be divided both on the basis of structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases that can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases that can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and most probably contain one haem per heterodimer which is a part of the regulatory centre. This is of central importance for the activation mechanism NO can bind to the iron atom of haem and thus greatly increase the activity of the enzyme. In contrast haem free preparations cannot be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also capable of binding to the central iron atom of haem but stimulation by CO is far less than by NO.

Through the formation of cGMP and the resultant regulation of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a decisive role in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion in neuronal signal transmission and in diseases that result from disturbance of the aforementioned processes. In pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system can be suppressed which can lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction arteriosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure myocardial infarction thromboses stroke and sexual dysfunction.

A possible NO independent treatment for such diseases that aims to influence the cGMP signalling pathway in organisms is a promising approach in view of the expected high efficiency with few side effects.

Up till now compounds such as organic nitrates whose action is based on NO have been used exclusively for therapeutic stimulation of the soluble guanylate cyclase. The NO is formed by bioconversion and activates the soluble guanylate cyclase by acting on the central iron atom of the haem. In addition to the side effects the decisive disadvantages of this method of treatment include development of tolerance.

Some years ago some substances were described that stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase directly i.e. without prior release of NO such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 . The newer stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase include inter alia BAY 41 2272 BAY 41 8543 and riociguat BAY 63 2521 see e.g. Stasch J. P. et al. 2006 5 755 768 Stasch J. P. et al. 2009 4 853 865. Stasch J. P. et al. 2011 123 2263 2273 . Interestingly some of these sGC stimulators for example YC 1 or BAY 41 2272 display PDE5 inhibitory action in addition to direct guanylate cyclase stimulation. To maximize the cGMP pathway it is pharmacologically desirable to stimulate the synthesis of cGMP and simultaneously inhibit the degradation via PDE 5. This dual principle is especially advantageous pharmacologically cf. Oudout et al. Eur. Urol. 2011 60 1020 1026 .

The dual principle is fulfilled in the sense of the present invention if the compounds according to the invention display an action on recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell lines according to the test under B 2 as minimal effective concentration MEC of 3 m and inhibition of human phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 according to the test under B 6 as IC50

Phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 is the name for one of the enzymes that cleave the phosphoric acid ester bond in cGMP with formation of 5 guanosine monophosphate 5 GMP . In humans phosphodiesterase 5 occurs mainly in the smooth muscles of the cavernous body of the penis corpus cavernosum penis and the pulmonary arteries. Blocking of cGMP degradation through inhibition of PDE5 with for example sildenafil vardenafil or tadalafil leads to increased signals of the relaxation signalling pathways and especially to increased blood supply to the cavernous body of the penis and lowering of pressure in the blood vessels of the lung. They are used for treating erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial hypertension. In addition to PDE5 there are other phosphodiesterases exclusively cleaving cGMP Stasch J. P. et al. 2011 .

As stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase annellated pyrazole derivatives are disclosed in WO 00 06568 and WO 00 06569 and carbamate substituted 3 pyrimidinyl pyrazolopyridines in WO 03 095451. 3 Pyrimidinyl pyrazolopyridines with phenylamide substituents are described in E. M. Becker et al. 1 13 2001. WO 2004 009590 describes pyrazolopyridines with substituted 4 aminopyrimidines for treating CNS disorders. WO 2010 065275 and WO 2011 149921 disclose substituted pyrrolo and dihydropyridopyrimidines as sGC activators. As sGC stimulators annellated aminopyrimidines are described in WO 2012 004259 and annellated pyrimidines and triazines in WO 2012 004258. WO 2012 28647 discloses pyrazolopyridines with various azaheterocycles for treating cardiovascular diseases.

The problem to be solved by the present invention was to provide novel substances that act as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 5 dual principle and have an equal or improved therapeutic profile versus the compounds known from the prior art for example with respect to their in vivo properties for example their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic behaviour and or their metabolic profile and or their dose effect relation.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of formula I and their N oxides salts solvates and solvates of the N oxides and salts the compounds covered by formula I with the formulae stated hereunder and their N oxides salts solvates and solvates of the N oxides and salts and the compounds covered by formula I stated hereunder as practical examples and their N oxides salts solvates and solvates of the N oxides and salts provided the compounds stated hereunder that are covered by formula I are not already N oxides salts solvates and solvates of the N oxides and salts.

Physiologically harmless salts of the compounds according to the invention are preferred as salts in the context of the present invention. Salts that are not suitable themselves for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also covered.

Physiologically harmless salts of the compounds according to the invention comprise acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulphonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid toluenesulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid naphthalene disulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically harmless salts of the compounds according to the invention also comprise salts of usual bases for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines with 1 to 16 carbon atoms for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

The term solvates denotes in the context of the invention those forms of the compounds according to the invention that form a complex in the solid or liquid state by coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a special form of the solvates in which coordination takes place with water. Hydrates are preferred as solvates in the context of the present invention.

Depending on their structure the compounds according to the invention can exist in various stereoisomeric forms i.e. in the form of configurational isomers or optionally also as conformational isomers enantiomers and or diastereomers including those that are atropisomers . The present invention therefore comprises the enantiomers and diastereomers and their respective mixtures. The stereoisomerically uniform constituents can be isolated in a known way from said mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers chromatographic methods are preferably used for this in particular achiral or chiral phase HPLC chromatography.

If the compounds according to the invention can exist in tautomeric forms the present invention comprises all tautomeric forms.

The present invention also comprises all suitable isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention. Isotopic variant of a compound according to the invention means a compound in which at least one atom within the compound according to the invention is exchanged for another atom of the same atomic number but with an atomic mass different from the atomic mass usually or mainly occurring naturally. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated in a compound according to the invention are those of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulphur fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine such as H deuterium H tritium C C N O O P P S S S S F Cl Br I I I and I. Certain isotopic variants of a compound according to the invention such as in particular those in which one or more radioactive isotopes are incorporated can be useful for example for investigating the mechanism of action or the distribution of active substances in the body owing to the comparative ease of production and detection compounds labelled with H or C isotopes are particularly suitable for this. Furthermore the incorporation of isotopes for example deuterium can lead to certain therapeutic advantages as a result of increased metabolic stability of the compound for example a longer half life in the body or a decrease in the effective dose required such modifications of the compounds according to the invention can therefore optionally also represent a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention can be produced by methods that are known by a person skilled in the art for example the methods described hereunder and the specifications presented in the practical examples in which corresponding isotopic modifications of the respective reagents and or starting compounds are used.

Moreover the present invention also comprises prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs denotes compounds that can themselves be biologically active or inactive but during their residence time in the body they are converted to compounds according to the invention for example metabolically or by hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meanings unless stated otherwise 

In the context of the invention alkyl stands for a linear or branched alkyl residue with the number of carbon atoms stated in each case. For example and preferably we may mention methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl 1 methylpropyl tert. butyl n pentyl iso pentyl 1 ethylpropyl 1 methylbutyl 2 methylbutyl 3 methylbutyl n hexyl 1 methylpentyl 2 methylpentyl 3 methylpentyl 4 methylpentyl 3 3 dimethylbutyl 1 ethylbutyl and 2 ethylbutyl.

In the context of the invention cycloalkyl or carbocycle stands for a monocyclic saturated alkyl residue with the number of carbon atoms stated in each case. For example and preferably we may mention cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl.

In the context of the invention 5 to 7 membered saturated or partially unsaturated carbocycle stands for a saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic alkyl residue with the number of carbon atoms stated in each case. For example and preferably we may mention cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl and cycloheptenyl.

In the context of the invention alkanediyl stands for a linear or branched divalent alkyl residue with 1 to 4 carbon atoms. For example and preferably we may mention methylene ethane 1 2 diyl ethane 1 1 diyl propane 1 3 diyl propane 1 1 diyl propane 1 2 diyl propane 2 2 diyl butane 1 4 diyl butane 1 2 diyl butane 1 3 diyl and butane 2 3 diyl.

In the context of the invention alkenyl stands for a linear or branched alkenyl residue with 2 to 4 carbon atoms and a double bond. For example and preferably we may mention vinyl allyl isopropenyl and n but 2 en 1 yl.

In the context of the invention alkoxy stands for a linear or branched alkoxy residue with 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. We may mention for example methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy 1 methylpropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy tert. butoxy n pentoxy iso pentoxy 1 ethylpropoxy 1 methylbutoxy 2 methylbutoxy 3 methylbutoxy and n hexoxy. A linear or branched alkoxy residue with 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. For example and preferably we may mention methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy 1 methylpropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy tert. butoxy.

In the context of the invention alkoxycarbonyl stands for a linear or branched alkoxy residue with 1 to 4 carbon atoms and a carbonyl group attached to the oxygen. For example and preferably we may mention methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl n propoxycarbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl and tert. butoxycarbonyl.

In the context of the invention alkoxycarbonylamino stands for an amino group with a linear or branched alkoxycarbonyl substituent which has 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain and is joined to the N atom via the carbonyl group. For example and preferably we may mention methoxycarbonylamino ethoxycarbonylamino propoxycarbonylamino n butoxycarbonylamino iso butoxycarbonylamino and tert. butoxycarbonylamino.

In the context of the invention mono alkylamino stands for an amino group with a linear or branched alkyl substituent having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. For example and preferably we may mention methylamino ethylamino n propylamino isopropylamino and tert. butylamino.

In the context of the invention di alkylamino stands for an amino group with two identical or different linear or branched alkyl substituents with in each case 1 to 6 carbon atoms. For example and preferably we may mention N N dimethylamino N N diethylamino N ethyl N methylamino N methyl N n propylamino N isopropyl N n propylamino N tert. butyl N methylamino N ethyl N n pentylamino and N n hexyl N methylamino.

In the context of the invention 5 to 7 membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocycle stands for a saturated or partially unsaturated heterocycle with a total of 5 to 7 ring atoms which contains a ring heteroatom from the group N O S SO and or SO. We may mention for example pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyrrolyl dihydropyridyl.

In the context of the invention heterocyclyl or heterocycle stands for a saturated heterocycle with a total of 4 to 7 ring atoms which contains one or two ring heteroatoms from the group N O S SO and or SO. We may mention for example azetidinyl oxetanyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl piperazinyl tetrahydropyranyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl and dioxidothiomorpholinyl. Azetidinyl oxetanyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl and morpholinyl are preferred.

In the context of the invention 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl stands for a monocyclic aromatic heterocycle heteroaromatic with a total of 5 or 6 ring atoms which contains up to three identical or different ring heteroatoms from the group N O and or S and is joined via a ring carbon atom or optionally via a ring nitrogen atom. For example and preferably we may mention furyl pyrrolyl thienyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl. The following are preferred pyrazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl and pyrimidinyl.

In the context of the invention 8 or 9 membered heteroaryl stands for a bicyclic aromatic or partially unsaturated heterocycle with a total of 8 or 9 ring atoms which contains at least two nitrogen atoms and up to two further identical or different ring heteroatoms from the group N O and or S. We may mention for example dihydrothienopyrazolyl thienopyrazolyl pyrazolopyrazolyl imidazothiazolyl tetrahydrocyclopentapyrazolyl dihydrocyclopentapyrazolyl tetrahydroindazolyl dihydroindazolyl indazolyl pyrazolopyridyl tetrahydropyrazolopyridyl pyrazolopyrimidinyl imidazopyridyl and imidazopyridazinyl. The following are preferred indazolyl pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridyl pyrazolo 3 4 b pyrimidinyl and imidazo 1 5 a pyridyl.

In the context of the invention halogen stands for fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Bromine and iodine are preferred.

In the context of the invention an oxo group stands for an oxygen atom which is bound to a carbon atom via a double bond.

In the context of the invention a thiooxo group stands for a sulphur atom which is bound to a carbon atom via a double bond.

In the formula of the group for which L or Q can stand the end point of the line at which there is the symbol and does not stand for a carbon atom or a CHgroup but is a component of the bond to the atom that is designated in each case to which L or Q is bound.

If residues in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the residues can unless stated otherwise be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention for all residues that occur more than once their meaning is independent of one another. Substitution with one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred.

In the sense of the present invention the term treatment or treat comprises inhibiting delaying maintaining alleviating mitigating restricting decreasing suppressing repressing or healing a disease a condition an ailment an injury or a disorder the development the course or the progression of said states and or the symptoms of said states. The term therapy is to be understood as a synonym of the term treatment .

In the context of the present invention the terms prevention and prophylaxis are used synonymously and denote avoiding or reducing the risk of acquiring experiencing suffering or having a disease a condition an ailment an injury or a disorder development or progression of said states and or the symptoms of said states.

The treatment or the prevention of a disease a condition an ailment an injury or a disorder can be partial or complete.

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also preferred in which Rstands for H and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also preferred in which Rstands for fluoro and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also preferred in which Rstands for methyl and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

In the context of the present invention compounds of formula I are also especially preferred in which

Compounds of the present invention according to formula I are also preferred that display an action on recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell lines according to the test under B 2 as minimal effective concentration MEC of 3 m and display inhibition of human phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 according to the test under B 6 as IC50

Compounds of the present invention according to claim and examples 1 117 are especially preferred that display an action on recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell lines according to the test under B 2 as minimal effective concentration MEC of 

The definitions of residues given in detail in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of residues are also replaced by any definitions of residues of other combinations independently of the respective combinations stated.

The compounds according to the invention of formula I in which Rstands for hydroxyl I A can also be in the tautomeric keto form I A see Scheme 7 below both tautomeric forms are expressly covered by the present invention.

The invention further relates to a method of production of the compounds according to the invention of formula I characterized in that a compound of formula II 

The process step II III takes place with or without solvent. All organic solvents that are inert under the reaction conditions are suitable as solvent. The preferred solvent is dimethoxyethane.

The reaction II III generally takes place in a temperature range from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably in the range from 50 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The reaction can be carried out at normal increased or reduced pressure e.g. in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . It is generally carried out at normal pressure.

For example diiodomethane a mixture of caesium iodide iodine and copper I iodide or copper II bromide are suitable as halogen source in the reaction II III .

Inert solvents for the process step III IV I are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethylsulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropylene urea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or sulpholane. It is also possible to use mixtures of the aforementioned solvents. NMP is preferred.

In the case when R OR the reaction III IV I takes place in the presence of a suitable copper catalyst for example copper I iodide with addition of 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline and a suitable base for example alkaline earth carbonates such as lithium sodium potassium calcium or caesium carbonate preferably caesium carbonate.

Alternatively in the case when R OR the compounds of formula I can also be prepared under Mitsunobu conditions see a Hughes D. L. The Mitsunobu reaction John Wiley Sons Ltd 1992 Vol. 42 p. 335. b Hughes D. L. 1996 28 127. starting from a compound of formula I A 

The Mitsunobu reaction takes place herein using triphenyl phosphine or tri n butylphosphine 1 2 bis diphenylphosphino ethane DPPE diphenyl 2 pyridyl phosphine Ph2P Py p dimethylaminophenyl diphenylphosphine DAP DP Tris 4 dimethylaminophenyl phosphine Tris DAP and a suitable dialkyl azodicarboxylate for example diethyl azodicarboxylate DEAD diisopropyl azodicarboxylate DIAD di tert butyl azodicarboxylate N N N N tetramethyl azodicarboxamide TMAD 1 1 azodicarbonyl dipiperidine ADDP or 4 7 dimethyl 3 5 7 hexahydro 1 2 4 7 tetrazocin 3 8 dione DHTD . Preferably triphenyl phosphine and diisopropyl azodicarboxylate DIAD are used or a suitable azodicarbonamide for example N N N N tetramethyldiazene 1 2 dicarboxamide.

Inert solvents for the Mitsunobu reaction I A IV I are for example ethers such as tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene halohydrocarbons such as dichloromethane dichloroethane or other solvents such as acetonitrile DMF or NMP. It is also possible to use mixtures of the aforementioned solvents. THF is preferably used.

The Mitsunobu reaction III IV I generally takes place in a temperature range from 78 C. to 180 C. preferably at 0 C. to 50 C. optionally in a microwave. The reactions can be carried out at normal increased or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar .

Alternatively in the case when R OR the compounds of formula I can also be prepared under alkylation conditions starting from a compound of formula I A . For this an alkyl halide preferably alkyl iodide is reacted with I A with addition of a base in an inert solvent.

Suitable bases for the process step I A I are the usual inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali hydroxides for example lithium sodium or potassium hydroxide alkali or alkaline earth carbonates such as lithium sodium potassium calcium or caesium carbonate alkali alcoholates such as sodium or potassium methanolate sodium or potassium ethanolate or sodium or potassium tert. butylate alkali hydrides such as sodium or potassium hydride or amides such as sodium amide lithium or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide. Caesium carbonate is preferably used.

Inert solvents are for example ethers such as tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene and other solvents such as DMF or NMP. It is also possible to use mixtures of the aforementioned solvents. DMF is preferably used.

The alkylation reaction generally takes place in a temperature range from 78 C. to 180 C. preferably at 0 C. to 130 C. optionally in a microwave. The reactions can be carried out at normal increased or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar .

In the case when R NRR if Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound form a 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl which can be substituted in the range of meanings stated above the reaction III IV I takes place in the presence of a suitable copper catalyst for example copper I oxide with addition of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime and a suitable base for example alkaline earth carbonates such as lithium sodium potassium calcium or caesium carbonate preferably caesium carbonate.

The reaction III IV I is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 200 C. preferably at 150 C. to 200 C. preferably in a microwave. The reaction can take place at normal increased or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar .

The method of production described can be illustrated for example by the following synthesis scheme Scheme 1 

Compounds of formula I A are obtained as by products in the production of the compounds of formula III .

Compounds of formula I A can alternatively also be obtained starting from compounds of formula V by reaction with compounds of formula VIII 

Compounds of formula I A can also be prepared in another alternative method starting from compounds of formula II by reaction with nitrites in acids optionally with addition of water. Sodium nitrite in a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid and water is preferred.

The reaction II I A is generally carried out in a temperature range from 15 C. to 70 C. preferably at 0 C. to 40 C. with addition of the nitrite in portions. The reaction can take place at normal increased or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar .

The method of production described above can be illustrated for example by the following synthesis scheme Scheme 2 

The compounds of formula II are known from the literature see e.g. WO 2010 065275 WO 2011 115804 and WO 2011 149921 or can be produced by analogy with methods known from the literature.

Inert solvents for the process step V VI II are for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert. butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethylsulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropylene urea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile sulpholane or also water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the aforementioned solvents. tert. Butanol or methanol is preferred.

Suitable bases for the process step V VI II are alkali hydroxides for example lithium sodium or potassium hydroxide alkali carbonates such as lithium sodium potassium or caesium carbonate alkali hydrogen carbonates such as sodium or potassium hydrogen carbonate alkali alcoholates such as sodium or potassium methanolate sodium or potassium ethanolate or potassium tert. butylate or organic amines such as triethylamine diisopropyl ethylamine pyridine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN . Potassium tert. butylate or sodium methanolate is preferred.

The reaction V VI II is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 150 C. preferably at 75 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The reaction can take place at normal increased or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . It is generally carried out at normal pressure.

The method of production described above can be illustrated for example by the following synthesis scheme Scheme 3 

The compounds of formula V are known from the literature see e.g. WO 03 095451 example 6A or can be prepared as in the following synthesis schemes Schemes 4 to 6 

The compound of formula VII is known from the literature cf. e.g. Winn M. 1993 36 2676 7688 EP 634 413 A1 CN 1613849 A EP 1626045 A1 WO 2009 018415 can be prepared by analogy with methods known from the literature or as shown in the following synthesis scheme Scheme 7 

The compounds of formula IV and VI are commercially available known from the literature or can be prepared by analogy with methods known from the literature.

The compounds according to the invention act as potent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 5 possess valuable pharmacological properties and have an improved therapeutic profile for example with respect to their in vivo properties and or their pharmacokinetic behaviour and or metabolic profile. They are therefore suitable for treating and or preventing diseases in humans and animals.

The compounds according to the invention bring about vessel relaxation and inhibition of thrombocyte aggregation and lead to a lowering of blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are due to direct stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an increase in intracellular cGMP. Moreover the compounds according to the invention intensify the action of substances that raise the cGMP level for example EDRF endothelium derived relaxing factor NO donors protoporphyrin IX arachidonic acid or phenylhydrazine derivatives.

The compounds according to the invention are suitable for treating and or preventing cardiovascular pulmonary thromboembolic and fibrotic diseases.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be used in medicinal products for treating and or preventing cardiovascular diseases for example high blood pressure hypertension resistant hypertension acute and chronic heart failure coronary heart disease stable and unstable angina pectoris peripheral and cardiac vascular diseases arrhythmias disturbances of atrial and ventricular rhythm and conduction disturbances for example atrioventricular blocks of degree I III AVB I III supraventricular tachyarrhythmia atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular fibrillation ventricular flutter ventricular tachyarrhythmia torsade de pointes tachycardia atrial and ventricular extrasystoles AV junction extrasystoles sick sinus syndrome syncopes AV node reentry tachycardia Wolff Parkinson White syndrome acute coronary syndrome ACS autoimmune heart diseases pericarditis endocarditis valvulitis aortitis cardiomyopathies shock such as cardiogenic shock septic shock and anaphylactic shock aneurysms Boxer cardiomyopathy premature ventricular contraction PVC for treating and or preventing thromboembolic diseases and ischaemias such as myocardial ischaemia myocardial infarction stroke cardiac hypertrophy transient ischaemic attacks preeclampsia inflammatory cardiovascular diseases spasms of the coronary arteries and peripheral arteries development of oedema for example pulmonary oedema cerebral oedema renal oedema or oedema due to heart failure peripheral perfusion disturbances reperfusion injury arterial and venous thromboses microalbuminuria myocardial insufficiency endothelial dysfunction for preventing restenoses such as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasty PTA transluminal coronary angioplasty PTCA heart transplant and bypass operations and micro and macrovascular damage vasculitis increased level of fibrinogen and of low density LDL and increased concentrations of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 and for treating and or preventing erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction.

In the sense of the present invention the term heart failure comprises both acute and chronic manifestations of heart failure as well as more specific or related forms of disease such as acute decompensated heart failure right ventricular failure left ventricular failure total heart failure ischaemic cardiomyopathy dilatated cardiomyopathy hypertrophic cardiomyopathy idiopathic cardiomyopathy congenital heart defects heart failure with valvular defects mitral valve stenosis mitral valve insufficiency aortic valve stenosis aortic valve insufficiency tricuspid stenosis tricuspid insufficiency pulmonary valve stenosis pulmonary valve insufficiency combined valvular defects heart muscle inflammation myocarditis chronic myocarditis acute myocarditis viral myocarditis diabetic heart failure alcoholic cardiomyopathy storage cardiomyopathies diastolic heart failure and systolic heart failure and acute phases of exacerbation of existing chronic heart failure worsening heart failure .

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention can also be used for treating and or preventing arteriosclerosis disturbances of lipid metabolism hypolipoproteinaemias dyslipidaemias hypertriglyceridaemias hyperlipidaemias hypercholesterolaemias abetalipoproteinaemia sitosterolaemia xanthomatosis Tangier disease adiposity obesity and combined hyperlipidaemias and metabolic syndrome.

Moreover the compounds according to the invention can be used for treating and or preventing primary and secondary Raynaud phenomenon microcirculation disturbances claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic limb ulcers gangrene CREST syndrome erythematous disorders onychomycosis rheumatic diseases and for promoting wound healing.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are suitable for treating urological diseases for example benign prostatic syndrome BPS benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH benign prostatic enlargement BPE bladder outlet obstruction BOO lower urinary tract syndromes LUTS including feline urological syndrome FUS diseases of the urogenital system including neurogenic overactive bladder OAB and IC urinary incontinence UI for example mixed urge stress or overflow incontinence MUI UUI SUI OUI pelvic pains benign and malignant diseases of the organs of the male and female urogenital system.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are suitable for treating and or preventing kidney diseases in particular acute and chronic renal insufficiency and acute and chronic renal failure. In the sense of the present invention the term renal insufficiency comprises both acute and chronic manifestations of renal insufficiency as well as underlying or related kidney diseases such as renal hypoperfusion intradialytic hypotension obstructive uropathy glomerulopathies glomerulonephritis acute glomerulonephritis glomerulosclerosis tubulointerstitial diseases nephropathic diseases such as primary and congenital kidney disease nephritis immunological kidney diseases such as kidney transplant rejection immune complex induced kidney diseases nephropathy induced by toxic substances contrast medium induced nephropathy diabetic and non diabetic nephropathy pyelonephritis renal cysts nephrosclerosis hypertensive nephrosclerosis and nephrotic syndrome which can be characterized diagnostically for example by abnormally reduced creatinine and or water excretion abnormally increased blood concentrations of urea nitrogen potassium and or creatinine altered activity of renal enzymes such as e.g. glutamyl synthetase altered urine osmolarity or urine volume increased microalbuminuria macroalbuminuria lesions of glomeruli and arterioles tubular dilatation hyperphosphataemia and or need for dialysis. The present invention also comprises the use of the compounds according to the invention for treating and or preventing sequelae of renal insufficiency for example pulmonary oedema heart failure uraemia anaemia electrolyte disturbances e.g. hyperkalaemia hyponatraemia and disturbances in bone and carbohydrate metabolism.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for treating and or preventing asthmatic diseases pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and other forms of pulmonary hypertension PH comprising pulmonary hypertension associated with left ventricular disease HIV sickle cell anaemia thromboembolism CTEPH sarcoidosis COPD or pulmonary fibrosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS acute lung injury ALI alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency AATD pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary emphysema e.g. smoking induced pulmonary emphysema and cystic fibrosis CF .

The compounds described in the present invention are also active substances for combating diseases in the central nervous system that are characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. In particular they are suitable for improving perception capacity for concentration capacity for learning or memory performance after cognitive disturbances such as occur in particular in situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age related learning and memory disturbances age related memory loss vascular dementia head injury stroke post stroke dementia post traumatic head injury general disturbances of concentration disturbances of concentration in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with frontal lobe degeneration including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease demyelination multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeldt Jakob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff psychosis. They are also suitable for treating and or preventing diseases of the central nervous system such as anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological eating disorders and use of luxury foods and addictive drugs.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for controlling cerebral perfusion and are effective agents for combating migraines. They are also suitable for preventing and combating the consequences of cerebral infarctions apoplexia cerebri such as stroke cerebral ischaemias and head injury. The compounds according to the invention can also be used for combating pain states and tinnitus.

In addition the compounds according to the invention possess anti inflammatory action and can therefore be used as anti inflammatory agents for treating and or preventing sepsis SIRS multiple organ failure MODS MOF inflammatory diseases of the kidney chronic intestinal inflammations IBD Crohn s disease UC pancreatitis peritonitis rheumatoid diseases inflammatory skin diseases and inflammatory eye diseases.

Moreover the compounds according to the invention can also be used for treating and or preventing autoimmune diseases.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are suitable for treating and or preventing fibrotic diseases of the internal organs for example of the lung heart kidney bone marrow and in particular of the liver and dermatological fibroses and fibrotic diseases of the eye. In the sense of the present invention the term fibrotic diseases comprises in particular the following terms hepatic fibrosis hepatic cirrhosis pulmonary fibrosis endomyocardial fibrosis nephropathy glomerulonephritis interstitial renal fibrosis fibrotic lesions as a consequence of diabetes bone marrow fibrosis and similar fibrotic diseases scleroderma morphea keloids hypertrophic scars including after surgery naevi diabetic retinopathy proliferative vitreoretinopathy and connective tissue diseases e.g. sarcoidosis .

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are suitable for combating postoperative scarring e.g. as a result of glaucoma operations.

The compounds according to the invention can also be used cosmetically for ageing and keratinizing skin.

Moreover the compounds according to the invention are suitable for treating and or preventing hepatitis neoplasms osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for treating and or preventing diseases in particular the aforementioned diseases.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for treating and or preventing heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular diseases renal insufficiency thromboembolic diseases fibrotic diseases and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further relates to the compounds according to the invention for use in a method of treating and or preventing heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular diseases renal insufficiency thromboembolic diseases fibrotic diseases and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicinal product for treating and or preventing diseases in particular the aforementioned diseases.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicinal product for treating and or preventing heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular diseases renal insufficiency thromboembolic diseases fibrotic diseases and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further relates to a method of treating and or preventing diseases in particular the aforementioned diseases using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The present invention further relates to a method of treating and or preventing heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular diseases renal insufficiency thromboembolic diseases fibrotic diseases and arteriosclerosis using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be used alone or in combination with other active substances if necessary. The present invention further relates to medicinal products containing at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active substances in particular for treating and or preventing the aforementioned diseases. As suitable combination active substances we may mention for example and preferably 

Antithrombotic agents are preferably to be understood as compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors anticoagulants or profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidine or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor for example and preferably ximelagatran dabigatran melagatran bivalirudin or Clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor for example and preferably rivaroxaban BAY 59 7939 DU 176b apixaban otamixaban fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist for example and preferably coumarin.

The agents for lowering blood pressure are preferably to be understood as compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha blockers beta blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta blocker for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazolol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin All antagonist for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a loop diuretic for example furosemide torasemide bumetanide and piretanide with potassium sparing diuretics for example amiloride and triamterene with aldosterone antagonists for example spironolactone potassium canrenoate and eplerenone and thiazide diuretics for example hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone xipamide and indapamide.

Agents altering fat metabolism are preferably to be understood as compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase or squalene synthesis inhibitors the ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbers bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and the lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor for example and preferably dalcetrapib BAY 60 5521 anacetrapib or CETP vaccine CETi 1 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist for example and preferably D thyroxin 3 5 3 triiodothyronin T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorber for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors e.g. AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicinal products that contain at least one compound according to the invention usually together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can have systemic and or local action. For this purpose they can be applied in a suitable way e.g. by oral parenteral pulmonary nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival or otic administration or as implant or stent.

For these routes of application the compounds according to the invention can be administered in suitable dosage forms.

Dosage forms functioning according to the prior art for rapid and or modified release of the compounds according to the invention which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form e.g. tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example with enteric coatings or coatings with delayed dissolution or insoluble coatings which control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets or films wafers that disintegrate rapidly in the oral cavity films lyophilizates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated pills granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions are suitable for oral application.

Parenteral application can take place avoiding an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or including absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Injection and infusion preparations in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilizates or sterile powders are suitable among others as dosage forms for parenteral application.

Inhaled pharmaceutical forms including powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets films wafers or capsules for lingual sublingual or buccal application suppositories ear or eye preparations vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents for example are suitable for other routes of administration.

The compounds according to the invention can be transformed to the aforementioned dosage forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulphate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments for example iron oxides and taste and or odour correctants.

In general it has proved advantageous in the case of parenteral application to administer amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg body weight to achieve effective results. For oral application the dosage is about 0.001 to 2 mg kg preferably about 0.001 to 1 mg kg body weight.

Nevertheless it may optionally be necessary to deviate from the stated amounts namely depending on body weight route of application individual response to the active substance type of preparation and time point or interval when application takes place. Thus in some cases it may be sufficient to use less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. When applying larger amounts it may be advisable to distribute these in several individual doses throughout the day.

The following practical examples explain the invention. The invention is not limited to the examples.

The percentages in the following tests and examples are percentages by weight unless stated otherwise parts are parts by weight. Proportions of solvents dilution ratios and concentrations for liquid liquid solutions refer in each case to the volume.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC system column Waters ACQUITY UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm eluent A 1 l water 0.25 ml 99 formic acid eluent B 1 l acetonitrile 0.25 ml 99 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A furnace 50 C. flow 0.40 ml min UV detection 210 400 nm.

Instrument type MS Waters ZQ instrument type HPLC Agilent 1100 Series UV DAD column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l water 0.5 ml 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l acetonitrile 0.5 ml 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 3.0 min 10 A 4.0 min 10 A furnace 55 C. flow 2 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC system column Waters ACQUITY UPLC HSS T3 1.8 30 2 mm eluent A 1 l water 0.25 ml 99 formic acid eluent B 1 l acetonitrile 0.25 ml 99 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A furnace 50 C. flow 0.60 ml min UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC ACQUITY column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 1 mm eluent A 1 l water 0.5 ml 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l acetonitrile 0.5 ml 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 97 A 0.5 min 97 A 3.2 min 5 A 4.0 min 5 A furnace 50 C. flow 0.3 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument Waters SQD HPLC instrument Waters UPLC column Zorbax SB Aq Agilent 50 mm 2.1 mm 1.8 m eluent A water 0.025 formic acid eluent B acetonitrile ULC 0.025 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 98 A 0.9 min 25 A 1.0 min 5 A 1.4 min 5 A 1.41 min 98 A 1.5 min 98 A furnace 40 C. flow 0.600 ml min UV detection DAD 210 nm

MS instrument Waters HPLC instrument Waters column Phenomenex Luna 5 C18 2 100A AXIA Tech. 50 21.2 mm eluent A water 0.05 formic acid eluent B methanol ULC 0.05 formic acid with gradient flow 40 ml min UV detection DAD 210 400 nm .

MS instrument Waters Micromass Quattro Micro HPLC instrument Agilent 1100 series column YMC Triart C18 3 50 3 mm eluent A 1 l water 0.01 mol ammonium carbonate eluent B 1 l acetonitrile gradient 0.0 min 100 A 2.75 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A furnace 40 C. flow 1.25 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC system column Waters ACQUITY UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm eluent A 1 l water 0.25 ml 99 formic acid eluent B 1 l acetonitrile 0.25 ml 99 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 95 A 6.0 min 5 A 7.5 min 5 A furnace 50 C. flow 0.35 ml min UV detection 210 400 nm.

A suspension of 25 g 130.90 mmol of 2 6 dichloro 5 fluoro 3 cyanopyridine in conc. sulphuric acid 125 ml was stirred for 1 h at 60 65 C. After cooling to RT the flask contents were poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate three times 100 ml each time . The combined organic phases were washed with water 100 ml and then with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 100 ml dried and concentrated in a rotary evaporator. The material obtained was dried under high vacuum.

44 g 210.58 mmol of 2 6 dichloro 5 fluoronicotinamide was added at RT to a suspension of 21.9 g 335.35 mmol of zinc in methanol 207 ml . Then acetic acid 18.5 ml was added and it was heated under reflux for 24 h with stirring. Then the flask contents were decanted from the zinc and ethyl acetate 414 ml and saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 414 ml were added and stirred vigorously. Then it was filtered with suction on diatomaceous earth and washed again three times with ethyl acetate 517 ml each time . The organic phase was separated and the aqueous phase was washed with ethyl acetate 258 ml . The combined organic phases were washed once with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 414 ml dried and concentrated by vacuum evaporation. Dichloromethane 388 ml was added to the crystals thus obtained and left to precipitate for 20 min. It was filtered with suction again and washed with diethyl ether and suction dried.

81.2 ml 582.25 mmol of triethylamine was added to a suspension of 46.2 g 264.66 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoronicotinamide in dichloromethane 783 ml and cooled to 0 C. While stirring 41.12 ml 291.13 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid anhydride was slowly added dropwise and stirred for a further 1.5 h at 0 C. The reaction solution was then washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 391 ml each time dried and concentrated by vacuum evaporation.

A suspension of 38.5 g 245.93 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoronicotinonitrile in 1 2 ethanediol 380 ml was prepared and then hydrazine hydrate 119.6 ml was added. It was heated under reflux for 4 h with stirring. On cooling the product was precipitated. Water 380 ml was added to the crystals and it was left to precipitate for 10 min at RT. Then the suspension was filtered with suction on a frit and washed again with water 200 ml and with cold 10 C. THF 200 ml . Drying over phosphorus pentoxide under high vacuum.

10 g 65.75 mmol of 5 fluoro 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 amine was put in THF 329 ml and cooled to 0 C. Then 16.65 ml 131.46 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex was slowly added. The reaction mixture was cooled further to 10 C. Then a solution of 10.01 g 85.45 mmol of isopentyl nitrite in THF 24.39 ml was slowly added and stirred for a further 30 min. The mixture was diluted with cold diethyl ether 329 ml and the resultant solid was filtered off. The resultant diazonium salt was added in portions to a cold 0 C. solution of 12.81 g 85.45 mmol of sodium iodide in acetone 329 ml and the mixture was stirred for a further 30 min at RT. The reaction mixture was added to ice water 1.8 l and was extracted twice with ethyl acetate 487 ml each time . The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 244 ml dried filtered and concentrated by evaporation. 12.1 g 86 purity 60 of theor. of the title compound was obtained as a solid. The raw product was reacted without further purification.

12.1 g approx. 39.65 mmol of the compound from example 6A was put in DMF 217 ml and then 8.25 g 43.62 mmol of 2 fluorobenzyl bromide and 14.21 g 43.62 mmol of caesium carbonate were added. The mixture was stirred for two hours at RT. Then the reaction mixture was added to water 1.17 l and was extracted twice with ethyl acetate 502 ml . The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 335 ml dried filtered and concentrated by evaporation. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel solvent petroleum ether ethyl acetate 97 3 and the product fractions were concentrated by evaporation. 9.0 g 61 of theor. of the title compound was obtained as a solid. The solid was taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with 10 aqueous sodium thiosulphate solution and then with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried and concentrated by evaporation.

13.487 g 51.228 mmol of ethyl 5 amino 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylate preparation described for example 20A in WO 00 06569 was put in 300 ml dioxane and 6 g 51.228 mmol of 3 dimethylamino 2 fluoroacrylaldehyde preparation described in 1970 99 107 was added at RT. Then 4.736 ml 61.473 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid was added and the mixture was heated under reflux for 3 days with stirring. After cooling it was concentrated by vacuum evaporation and water and ethyl acetate were added to the residue. The phases were separated and the organic phase was washed twice with water. The combined aqueous phases were then extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by vacuum evaporation. The residue 22 g was then purified by silica gel chromatography solvent dichloromethane . 5.67 g 35 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

1.00 g 3.152 mmol of the compound obtained in example 8A was stirred in 10 ml of a 7N solution of ammonia in methanol at RT for three days. Then it was concentrated by vacuum evaporation. 908 mg 99 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

A suspension of 16.03 g 43.19 mmol of 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 3 iodo 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine example 7A and 4.25 g 47.51 mmol of copper I cyanide was put in DMSO 120 ml and stirred for 2 h at 150 C. After cooling the flask contents were cooled to approx. 40 C. poured into a solution of conc ammonia water 90 ml and water 500 ml ethyl acetate 200 ml was added and it was left to precipitate for a short time. The aqueous phase was separated and extracted two more times with ethyl acetate 200 ml each time . The combined organic phases were washed twice with 10 aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 ml each time dried and concentrated by vacuum evaporation. The raw product was reacted without further purification.

900 mg 3.122 mmol of the compound obtained in example 9A was dissolved in THF 14 ml and 0.646 ml 7.993 mmol of pyridine was added. Then while stirring 1.129 ml 7.993 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid anhydride was slowly added dropwise and then it was stirred overnight at RT.

Then the reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were extracted with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and 1N hydrochloric acid and then washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by evaporation. 850 mg 99 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

11.1 g 41.07 mmol of 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile example 10A was added to 2.22 g 41.07 mmol of sodium methanolate in methanol 270 ml and stirred for 2 h at RT. Then 2.64 g 49.29 mmol of ammonium chloride and acetic acid 9.17 ml were added and it was heated under reflux overnight. Then the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness and the residue was taken up in water 100 ml and ethyl acetate 100 ml and was adjusted to pH 10 with 2N sodium hydroxide solution. It was stirred vigorously for approx. 1 h at RT. The suspension obtained was filtered with suction and was washed with ethyl acetate 100 ml water 100 ml and again with ethyl acetate 100 ml . The residue is dried over phosphorus pentoxide under high vacuum.

In THF 91 ml 3 g 45.411 mmol of malonic acid dinitrile was slowly added to 1.816 g 45.411 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil . Then 5.876 ml 45.411 mmol of methyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropanoate was added and it was stirred overnight at RT. Then a further 5.876 ml 45.411 mmol of methyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropanoate was added and it was heated overnight to 50 C. Then once again 1.762 ml 13.623 mmol of methyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropanoate was added and it was heated for a further 4 h to 50 C. Saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution was then added to the mixture and it was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate filtered and evaporated to dryness. 8.9 g of raw product was obtained and was purified by silica gel chromatography cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 .

5.887 g 19.256 mmol of example 1A was put in tert. butanol 50 ml and 2.593 g 23.107 mmol of potassium tert. butylate was added. Then 3.2 g 19.256 mmol of example 12A in tert. butanol 25 ml was added dropwise and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. Next day a further 0.64 g 3.851 mmol of example 12A was added and it was heated under reflux for another day. After cooling a precipitate was filtered off and was washed with diethyl ether. Then it was made into a slurry in water and filtered off once again and washed with diethyl ether. After drying under high vacuum 6.65 g of the title compound was obtained 85 of theor. .

By analogy with the preparation of example 13A 4.18 g 12.035 mmol of example 11A was reacted with 2.20 g 13.239 mmol of example 12A. 3.72 g of the title compound was obtained 73 of theor. .

5.00 g 12.394 mmol of example 13A was put in isopentyl nitrite 35.87 ml and diiodomethane 1.16 mol 93.71 ml and heated for 12 h to 85 C. After cooling the solids were filtered off the filtrate was concentrated by evaporation and the residue was then purified by silica gel chromatography solvent first cyclohexane dichloromethane gradient then dichloromethane methanol gradient . 5.50 g of the title compound was obtained 67 of theor. .

3.325 g 7.890 mmol of example 14A was reacted on the analogy of example 15A. 3.65 g of the title compound was obtained 87 of theor. approx. 61 purity according to LC MS .

52.6 g 113.585 mmol 91 purity of example 14A was stirred in dioxane 239 ml with 91.26 g 340.75 mmol of diiodomethane and 39.91 g 340.75 mmol of isopentyl nitrite for 2 h at 85 C. After concentration by evaporation the residue was chromatographed on silica gel with dichloromethane acetone 95 5 as eluent. 29.90 g of the title compound was obtained 49 of theor. .

6.291 g 23.921 mmol of 5 fluoro 3 iodo 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine and 8.573 g 26.313 mmol of caesium carbonate were put in DMF 10 ml and then 5.00 g 26.313 mmol of 2 bromomethyl 3 fluoropyridine dissolved in DMF 20 ml was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred overnight at RT. Then it was left to cool and was poured into 200 ml water. A precipitate was filtered off with suction it was washed with water and dried overnight under high vacuum. 6.28 g 70 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

6.280 g 16.876 mmol of example 17A and 1.663 g 18.564 mmol of copper I cyanide were put in DMSO 100 ml and stirred for 3 h at 150 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered on Celite and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was extracted four times with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and conc. ammonia water 3 1 v v and the organic phase was separated. This was then washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by vacuum evaporation. 3.97 g 86 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

3.900 g 14.379 mmol of example 18A in methanol 40 ml was added to 777 mg 14.379 mmol of sodium methanolate in methanol 20 ml and stirred for 2 h at RT. Then 932 mg 17.255 mmol of ammonium chloride and acetic acid 3.210 ml were added and it was heated under reflux overnight. Then the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness and ethyl acetate and 1N sodium hydroxide solution were added to the residue and stirred for 2 h at RT. Then a solid was filtered off which was washed with ethyl acetate and water. The solid was dried overnight under high vacuum. 0.56 g 11 of theor. of the title compound was obtained. The phases of the filtrate were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated by evaporation. A further 1.86 g 14 of theor. 39 purity of the title compound was obtained. The aqueous phase was also concentrated by evaporation DMF was added to the residue and it was stirred for 30 min at RT. A precipitate was filtered off with suction washed with DMF the filtrate was concentrated by evaporation and dried overnight under high vacuum. A further 1.77 g 35 of theor. of the title compound is obtained.

567 mg 1.628 mmol of example 19A was put in tert. butanol 10 ml and 274 mg 2.442 mmol of potassium tert. butylate was added. Then 324 mg 1.953 mmol of example 12A in tert. butanol 5 ml was added and the mixture was heated under reflux overnight. After cooling water and ethanol were added to the reaction mixture and it was stirred for 1 h. The resultant precipitate was filtered with suction and washed with a little ethanol. The solid was dried under high vacuum. 568 mg of the title compound was obtained 80 of theor. .

2.040 g 4.830 mmol of example 20A was put in isopentyl nitrite 14 ml and diiodomethane 37 ml and heated for 1 h to 85 C. After cooling a solid was filtered off which was washed with a little acetonitrile. Then the solid was dried under high vacuum overnight. 1.83 g of the title compound was obtained 39 of theor. 55 purity . The raw compound was used in the next steps without further purification.

556 mg 1.176 mmol of 4 amino 2 6 chloro 3 2 3 6 trifluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyridin 1 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one described in WO 2010 065275 was put in 1 2 dimethoxyethane 14 ml and 305 mg 1.176 mmol of caesium iodide 149 mg 0.588 mmol of iodine and 67 mg 0.353 mmol of copper I iodide were added at room temperature. Then isopentyl nitrite 0.933 ml was added and it was heated overnight to 60 C. Next day 305 mg 1.176 mmol of caesium iodide 149 mg 0.588 mmol of iodine and 67 mg 0.353 mmol of copper I iodide and isopentyl nitrite 0.933 ml were added again and it was heated for 3 days to 60 C. After cooling it was combined with a smaller batch starting from 50 mg 4 amino 2 6 chloro 3 2 3 6 trifluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyridin 1 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one . It was extracted with ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous sodium thiosulphate and the phases were separated. The organic phase was extracted twice more with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulphate. Then the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate filtered concentrated by evaporation and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 236 mg of the title compound was obtained 31 of theor. .

In addition to the title compound 27 mg 5 of theor. 90 purity of 2 6 chloro 3 2 3 6 trifluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyridin 1 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one was also obtained.

6.710 g 52.785 mmol of 3 fluoropyridin 4 yl methanol was put in 29 ml acetonitrile and heated to 50 C. Then a solution of 7.701 ml thionyl chloride in 14.5 ml acetonitrile was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred for 4 h at 50 C. Then the reaction mixture was concentrated by evaporation and was co distilled three times with dichloromethane. After drying under high vacuum 10.27 g of the title compound was obtained which was used in the next step without further purification.

On the analogy of the specification in example 7A 12.225 g 46.482 mmol of 5 fluoro 3 iodo 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine was reacted with example 23A. 11.34 g 65 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

On the analogy of the specification in example 10A variant A 11.340 g 30.474 mmol of example 24A was reacted. 6.31 g 76 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

On the analogy of the specification in example 11A 6.310 g 23.264 mmol of example 25A was reacted. 6.12 g 75 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

On the analogy of the specification in example 13A 3.050 g 8.756 mmol of example 26A was reacted. Purification by preparative silica gel chromatography dichloromethane methanol gradient . 528 mg of the title compound was obtained 14 of theor. .

On the analogy of the specification in example 21A 527 mg 1.248 mmol of example 27A was reacted. 395 mg of the title compound was obtained 39 of theor. 66 purity . The raw compound was used in the next steps without further purification.

10.320 g 77.50 mmol of 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazole 3 carbonitrile was dissolved in 100 ml DMF 30.304 g 93.01 mmol of caesium carbonate and 16.116 g 85.26 mmol of 2 fluorobenzyl bromide were added and it was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated by evaporation and taken up in dichloromethane and water was added. The organic phase was separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution filtered on a silicone filter and concentrated by evaporation. The residue was purified by silica gel flash chromatography eluent hexane ethyl acetate gradient . 11.37 g 60 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under nitrogen atmosphere 3.600 g 14.92 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazole 3 carbonitrile was dissolved in 37 ml of absolute methanol. 1.306 g 24.17 mmol of sodium methylate was added and it was stirred for 4 h at RT. 1.452 g 24.17 mmol of acetic acid and 1.197 g 22.38 mmol of ammonium chloride were added and the suspension was stirred overnight at 50 C. The reaction mixture was concentrated by evaporation and the residue was suspended in 100 ml water and 25 ml 1N hydrochloric acid. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The aqueous phase was made basic pH 12 with 2N sodium hydroxide solution and extracted three times with a mixture of dichloromethane methanol v v 8 2 . The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate concentrated by evaporation toluene was added and again evaporated to dryness. 1.94 g 50 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

300 mg 1.15 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazole 3 carboximidamide was dissolved with 2 ml tert. butanol 287 mg 1.38 mmol of methyl 3 3 dicyano 2 2 dimethylpropanoate in 2 ml tert. butanol and 181 mg 1.61 mmol of potassium tert. butylate was added and it was heated under reflux for 72 h. It was evaporated to dryness and the residue was mixed with water isopropanol v v 3 1 . The solid was filtered off and dried under high vacuum. 385 mg 80 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

285 mg 0.68 mmol of 4 amino 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazol 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyrimidin 6 one was put in absolute dimethoxyethane and 800 mg 6.83 mmol of isopentyl nitrite 87 mg 0.34 mmol of iodine 39 mg 0.21 mmol of copper I iodide and 177 mg 0.68 mmol of caesium iodide were added. The mixture was stirred for 40 min at 100 C. The mixture was concentrated in a rotary evaporator the residue was taken up in dichloromethane and was washed with 5 aqueous sodium thiosulphate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate concentrated by evaporation and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 148 mg 40 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

15.0 g 69.8 mmol of 2 methyl bromobenzoate and 11.8 g 76.7 mmol of 2 fluorophenylacetic acid were put in THF 278 ml under argon atmosphere at 70 C. and 174 ml of a 1M solution of sodium hexamethyldisilazane in THF was added dropwise in the space of 20 min. The reaction mixture was heated to 0 C. stirred for 30 min at this temperature and 1N hydrochloric acid 278 ml was added. After 1 h of vigorous stirring with evolution of gas COcleavage the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 500 ml . The organic phase was washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution once with water and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After drying and removal of the solvent in the rotary evaporator 16.8 g of residue was obtained 55 purity . The residue was dissolved in THF 140 ml 1N sodium hydroxide solution 70 ml was added and it was stirred for 4 h at RT in order to saponify excess ester. The THF was removed in the rotary evaporator the aqueous phase was extracted with diethyl ether and the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After drying and removal of the solvent 12.2 g of residue was obtained approx. 80 purity . The residue was dissolved in THF 100 ml 1N sodium hydroxide solution 40 ml was added and it was stirred overnight at RT. The THF was removed in the rotary evaporator the aqueous phase was extracted with diethyl ether and the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After drying and removal of the solvent 7.90 g 37 of theor. of the title compound was isolated.

7.80 g 26.6 mmol of example 34A and 5.88 g 53.2 mmol of aminoguanidine hydrochloride were put in ethylene glycol 193 ml and 8.50 g 59.9 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex was added. The reaction mixture was heated for 2 h at 120 C. on a distillation bridge. After cooling again 5.88 g 53.2 mmol of aminoguanidine hydrochloride and 8.50 g 59.9 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex were added and it was stirred for 3 h at 120 C. After cooling water 750 ml was added and it was adjusted to pH 11 12 with 1N sodium hydroxide solution. After crystals began to form 300 g ice was added it was stirred for 5 min and the solid was then filtered off. The residue was washed first with water then with pentane and dried under vacuum. 8.30 g 87 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

320 ml of N methylpyrrolidone was heated to 140 C. 8.20 g 23.5 mmol of example 35A and 4.47 g 23.5 mmol of copper I iodide were added and it was stirred for 14 min at 170 bath temperature. The reaction mixture was then added slowly to 1 L of ice water and concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 350 mL was added. After stirring for 5 minutes 1 L of ethyl acetate was added and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. The aqueous phase was extracted once with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were washed with water three times. After drying and removal of the solvent in the rotary evaporator 7.10 g 74 of theor. 66 purity of the title compound was obtained. The raw product was reacted further without purification.

7.00 g approx. 17.2 mmol 66 purity of the raw product from example 36A and 5.72 g 34.4 mmol of example 12A were put in tert. butanol 77.0 ml and 3.29 g 29.3 mmol of potassium tert. butylate was added. The reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 18 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with approx. 7 aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried and the solvent was removed in the rotary evaporator. The residue was purified chromatographically on 600 ml silica gel with cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 3. 2.20 g 29 of theor. of the title compound was obtained as a solid.

500 mg 1.242 mmol of example 37A was put in isopentyl nitrite 3.552 ml and diiodomethane 9.430 ml and heated overnight to 85 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered on silica gel dichloromethane methanol gradient and concentrated by evaporation. Dichloromethane and methanol were added to the residue and it was stirred for 10 min at room temperature. The solid that formed was filtered off and then washed with dichloromethane and methanol. The filtrate was concentrated by evaporation. Methanol and acetonitrile were then added to this residue. A precipitate formed again which was filtered with suction and was washed again with acetonitrile. After drying under high vacuum 127 mg of the title compound was obtained 18 of theor. . The filtrate was concentrated by evaporation thus obtaining a further 334 mg of the title compound at 57 purity 30 of theor. .

In addition to the title compound 57 mg 9 of theor. 86 purity of 2 3 2 fluorobenzyl 1H indazol 1 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 22 was obtained.

15.0 g 63.1 mmol of 2 bromo 5 methyl fluorobenzoate and 11.7 g 75.7 mmol of 2 fluorophenylacetic acid were put in THF 278 ml under argon atmosphere at 70 C. and a 1M solution of sodium hexamethyldisilazane in THF 158 ml was added dropwise in the space of 20 min. The reaction mixture was stirred at this temperature for 30 min heated to 0 C. stirred for a further 30 min at 0 C. and then 1N hydrochloric acid 251 ml was added. After stirring vigorously for 1 h with evolution of gas COcleavage the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 700 ml . The organic phase was washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution once with water and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After drying and removal of the solvent in the rotary evaporator 16.9 g of residue was obtained 50 purity . The residue was dissolved in THF 200 ml 1N sodium hydroxide solution 100 ml was added and it was stirred overnight at RT. The THF was removed in the rotary evaporator the aqueous phase was extracted with diethyl ether and the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After drying and removal of the solvent in the rotary evaporator 9.10 g 42 of theor. of the title compound was isolated.

9.00 g 28.9 mmol of example 39A and 6.40 g 58.9 mmol of aminoguanidine hydrochloride were put in ethylene glycol 207 ml and 9.24 g 65.1 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex was added. The reaction mixture was heated for 2 h at 120 C. on a distillation bridge. After cooling 6.40 g 58.9 mmol of aminoguanidine hydrochloride and 9.24 g 65.1 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex were added again and it was stirred for 3 h at 120 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was slowly added to water 800 ml and was adjusted to pH 11 12 with 1N sodium hydroxide solution. After a precipitate started to form 300 g ice was added and it was stirred for 15 min Owing to the sticky nature of the precipitate the water was decanted off and the residue was precipitated twice more with 200 ml water each time. The sticky precipitate was dissolved in diethyl ether washed with water the organic phase was dried the solvent was removed in the rotary evaporator and 6.00 g 54 of theor. of the title compound was isolated as a foam.

222 ml of N methylpyrrolidone was heated to 140 C. 6.00 g 16.3 mmol of example 40A and 3.11 g 16.3 mmol of copper I iodide were added and it was stirred for 14 min at 170 C. bath temperature. The reaction mixture was then added slowly to 700 ml ice water and concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 230 mL was added. After stirring for 5 minutes 700 ml ethyl acetate was added and it was stirred for 10 min. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate once more and the combined organic phases were washed with water three times. After drying and removal of the solvent in the rotary evaporator 6.00 g 64 of theor. 50 purity of product was obtained. The raw product was reacted further without purification.

6.00 g approx. 10.5 mmol 50 purity of the raw product from example 41A and 5.22 g 31.4 mmol of example 12A were put in tert. butanol 46.0 ml and 2.00 g 17.8 mmol of potassium tert. butylate was added. The reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 18 h. After cooling it was diluted with ethyl acetate and was extracted with approx. 7 aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried and the solvent was removed in the rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by chromatography on 600 ml silica gel with cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 3. The product containing fractions were concentrated by evaporation and mixed with approx. 20 ml diethyl ether filtered with suction and washed with diethyl ether. 1.80 g 37 of theor. of the title compound was obtained as a solid.

500 mg 1.189 mmol of example 42A was put in isopentyl nitrite 3.40 ml and diiodomethane 9.027 ml and heated overnight to 85 C. After cooling it was filtered on silica gel dichloromethane methanol gradient and concentrated by evaporation. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 274 mg of the title compound was obtained 43 of theor. .

In addition to the title compound 72 mg 14 of theor. 83 purity of 2 5 fluoro 3 2 fluorobenzyl 1H indazol 1 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 31 was obtained.

8.200 g 27.40 mmol of ethyl 8 2 fluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyrimidine 6 carboxylate was distributed in 8 microwave vessels. Each vessel was charged with 10 ml of 7N solution of ammonia in methanol and stirred for 80 min at 150 C. in the microwave. After cooling the contents of the vessels were combined the resultant precipitate was filtered with suction washed with a little methanol and dried under high vacuum. 8.42 g quant. of the target compound was obtained.

150 ml of phosphoryl chloride was added to 9.100 g 33.67 mmol of 8 2 fluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyrimidine 6 carboxamide and it was stirred for 2 h at 120 C. The reaction mixture was concentrated in the rotary evaporator and the residue was mixed with water. The solid was filtered with suction washed with a little water and dried under high vacuum. 8.02 g 92 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 6.98 g 32.30 mmol of sodium methylate 25 solution in methanol was put in 50 ml methanol and 8.000 g 30.76 mmol of 8 2 fluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyrimidine 6 carbonitrile dissolved in 40 ml of absolute methanol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at RT. 7.205 g 119.98 mmol of acetic acid and 1.975 g 36.92 mmol of ammonium chloride were added and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at 50 C. The reaction mixture was concentrated by evaporation and the residue was distributed between 150 ml water and 100 ml ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase was made basic pH 10 with 2N sodium hydroxide solution and the phases were stirred for 1 h at RT. Water was added and it was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate concentrated by evaporation and the residue was dried under high vacuum. 7.53 g purity 73 66 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

4.000 g purity 73 10.84 mmol of 8 2 fluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyrimidine 6 carboximidamide was put in 25 ml tert. butanol 2.162 g 13.01 mmol of methyl 3 3 dicyano 2 2 dimethylpropanoate dissolved in 25 ml tert. butanol and 1.703 g 15.18 mmol of potassium tert. butylate were added and it was heated under reflux for 18 h. A further 1.802 g 10.84 mmol of methyl 3 3 dicyano 2 2 dimethylpropanoate was added and it was boiled under reflux for 5 h. It was evaporated to dryness and the residue was mixed with water isopropanol v v 4 1 . The solid was filtered off and was mixed with methanol and diethyl ether. It was filtered with suction and the residue was dried under high vacuum. 1.90 g purity 90 39 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

1.500 g 3.35 mmol of 4 amino 2 8 2 fluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyrimidin 6 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one was suspended in 6.00 ml 44.56 mmol of isopentyl nitrite and 4.00 ml 49.66 mmol of diiodomethane and it was stirred for 2d at 85 C. 4.00 ml isopentyl nitrite and 5 ml NMP were added and the solution was stirred for 4 h at 85 C. The mixture was concentrated by evaporation in the rotary evaporator except the NMP and was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 928 mg purity 69 37 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

58 g 340.027 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoro 6 methylnicotinonitrile preparation described in WO2007 41052 example U 2 page 80 was put in 1 2 ethanediol 580 ml and then hydrazine hydrate 24.813 ml and 56.091 ml 340.027 mmol of diisopropyl ethylamine were added. The reaction mixture was heated with stirring for 16 h to 80 C. and then for 66 h to 120 C. After cooling water 2.5 l and ethyl acetate 2.5 l were added and it was filtered with suction. The solid obtained was dried. 28.4 g 47 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

28 g 168.513 mmol of example 50A was reacted on the analogy of example 6A. After silica gel chromatography cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 14.9 g 31 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

13 g 46.925 mmol of example 51A was reacted on the analogy of example 7A. After silica gel chromatography cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 8.4 g 43 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

9.3 g 24.146 mmol of example 52A was reacted on the analogy of example 10A variant A. After silica gel chromatography cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient 5.7 g 80 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

5.7 g 18.908 mmol approx. 95 of example 53A was reacted on the analogy of example 11A. 6.6 g 96 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

1 g 2.767 mmol of example 54A was reacted on the analogy of example 13A. 971 mg 80 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

960 mg 2.205 mmol of example 55A was reacted on the analogy of example 15A. 749 mg 62 of theor. 84 purity of the title compound was obtained.

In addition to the title compound 99 mg 10 of theor. of 2 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyrimidin 6 one was obtained in this batch.

1.505 g 4.650 mmol of example 73A was reacted on the analogy of example 13A with 0.903 g 4.650 mmol of methyl 3 dicyanomethyl tetrahydrofuran 3 carboxylate described in WO 2012 004259 example 12A page 42 . 178 mg 8 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

155 mg 0.345 mmol of example 57A was reacted on the analogy of WO 2012 004258 example 57A page 97 98. 86 mg 44 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

4.687 g 15.329 mmol of example 1A was put in tert. butanol 120 ml and 3.069 g 30.659 mmol of potassium hydrogen carbonate was added. Then 4.2 g 17.629 mmol of diethyl dicyanomethyl methyl malonate was added and the mixture was heated for 5 h to 85 C. Then water was added it was stirred for 30 min at room temperature and then a solid was filtered with suction. This was washed with a little diethyl ether. After drying under high vacuum 6.20 g of the title compound was obtained 87 of theor. .

1.00 g 2.167 mmol of example 59A was reacted on the analogy of the specification in example 15A. 0.887 g of the title compound was obtained 71 of theor. .

In addition to the title compound 173 mg 17 of theor. of ethyl 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 hydroxy 5 methyl 6 oxo 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 5 carboxylate example 101 was obtained.

150 mg 0.21 mmol purity approx. 71 of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was dissolved in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.1 ml and 0.22 ml 1.24 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 154 mg 0.83 mmol of tert. butyl pyrrolidin 3 ylcarbamate were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and was heated for 6 h at 150 C. in the microwave. After cooling water was added to the reaction mixture and trifluoroacetic acid extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by evaporation. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . 69 mg of the title compound was obtained 59 of theor. .

150 mg 0.21 mmol purity approx. 71 of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was dissolved in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.1 ml and 0.22 ml 1.24 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 143 mg 0.83 mmol of tert. butyl azetidin 3 ylcarbamate were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and heated for 8 h at 150 C. in the microwave. Then 0.15 ml 0.82 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 107 mg 0.62 mmol of tert. butyl azetidin 3 ylcarbamate were added again and the reaction mixture was heated for 3 h at 150 C. in the microwave. After cooling water was added to the reaction mixture and it was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . 81 mg of the title compound was obtained 64 of theor. purity 91 .

This compound was prepared according to a modified specification from C. C. Cheng R. K. Robins 1958 23 191.

4.878 g 33.2 mmol of 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol 1958 23 191 was put in 50 ml toluene 15.5 ml 165.8 mmol of phosphoryl chloride and 12.7 ml 72.9 mmol of diisopropyl ethylamine were added and it was stirred for 1 h at 80 C. It was concentrated by evaporation and distributed between ethyl acetate and 1 M hydrochloric acid. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated by evaporation. The residue 4.464 g 92 purity 73 of theor. was processed further without purification.

4.464 g approx. 24.28 mmol purity 92 of 4 chloro 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine was dissolved in 180 ml dioxane and 2.948 g 29.14 mmol of triethylamine and 5.629 g of 20 palladium hydroxide on charcoal were added and it was hydrogenated at 3 bar hydrogen pressure and RT for 2 days. 100 ml ethyl acetate 2.948 g 29.14 mmol of triethylamine and 2.000 g of 20 palladium hydroxide on charcoal were added. The mixture was hydrogenated with hydrogen at 3 bar hydrogen pressure and RT for 3 h. The reaction mixture was filtered on Celite washed with a little dioxane ethyl acetate and the filtrate was concentrated in the rotary evaporator. 2.180 g purity 73 49 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

2.180 g purity 73 approx. 11.82 mmol of 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine and 3.987 g 17.72 mmol of N iodosuccinimide were dissolved in 30 ml DMF and heated for 2 h at 80 C. After cooling the mixture was concentrated in the rotary evaporator and the residue was mixed with dichloromethane filtered with suction and dried under high vacuum. 7.950 g approx. 38 purity of the target compound was obtained.

7.950 g 13.76 mmol of 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine and 4.930 g 15.13 mmol of caesium carbonate were put in 20 ml DMF and 2.860 g 15.13 mmol of 2 fluorobenzyl bromide dissolved in 5 ml DMF was added. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at RT diluted with 100 ml water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 30 70 95 5 . 1.030 g of the target compound was obtained 20 of theor. .

1.485 g 4.03 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 3 iodo 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine and 397 mg 4.44 mmol of copper I cyanide were put in 11 ml of absolute DMSO and heated for 2 h at 150 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered on Celite and then washed with ethyl acetate and THF. The organic phase was washed with 25 aqueous ammonia solution saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in a rotary evaporator. 994 mg purity 81 75 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under an argon atmosphere 994 mg purity 81 approx. 3.01 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile was dissolved in 15 ml of absolute methanol. 209 mg 3.72 mmol of sodium methylate was added and it was stirred for 1 h at RT. Then a further 31 mg 0.56 mmol of sodium methylate was added and it was stirred for 15 min at RT. 871 mg 14.50 mmol of acetic acid and 489 mg 4.46 mmol of ammonium chloride were added and the mixture was stirred for 45 min at 45 C. The reaction mixture was concentrated by evaporation the residue was mixed with 1N sodium hydroxide solution the precipitate was filtered with suction and dried under high vacuum. 918 mg purity 91 97 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

3 ml tert. butanol a solution of 146 mg 0.70 mmol of methyl 3 3 dicyano 2 2 dimethylpropanoate in 1.5 ml tert. butanol and 94 mg 0.84 mmol of potassium tert. butylate were added to 200 mg 0.70 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 3 carboximidamide and it was heated under reflux for 48 h. Water was added and the precipitate was filtered off. The filtrate was extracted with dichloromethane the organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated in a rotary evaporator. The residue was mixed with water ethanol. The solid was filtered off and dried under high vacuum. 102 mg 34 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

3.770 g 14.08 mmol of diiodomethane and 411 mg 3.51 mmol of isopentyl nitrite were added to 70 mg 0.17 mmol of 4 amino 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one. The mixture was stirred for 8 h at 85 C. After cooling it was diluted with acetonitrile and the mixture was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 30 70 95 5 . 35 mg 24 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

In addition 10 mg 14 of theor. of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 methyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 3 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one was obtained.

On the analogy of the preparation of example 13A 5.00 g 13.687 mmol of 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide acetate example 64A from WO 2012 004258 Page 102 103 was reacted. 5.13 g of the title compound was obtained 85 of theor. .

On the analogy of the preparation of example 16A 5.11 g 11.629 mmol of example 71A was reacted. 2.39 g of the title compound was obtained 85 of theor. .

In addition to the title compound 660 mg 12 of theor. of 2 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 116 was obtained.

406.0 g 1.50 mol of the compound from example 10A was suspended in 2.08 L ethanol. Then 54.1 g 0.30 mol of sodium methanolate in methanol 30 was added and it was stirred overnight at room temperature. 88.4 g 1.65 mol of ammonium chloride was added it was heated to 65 C. and stirred for 3.5 h at 65 C. The solvents were distilled off and the residue was stirred overnight with 1.6 L ethyl acetate. The precipitated solid was filtered with suction washed twice with 140 ml ethyl acetate each time and dried in a vacuum drying cabinet at 50 C. under a gentle nitrogen stream. 441.4 g 90.7 of theor. of the title compound was obtained.

Methanol 3 ml 126 mg 0.389 mmol of caesium carbonate 3.7 mg 0.019 mmol of copper I iodide and 9 mg 0.039 mmol of 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline were added to 100 mg 0.194 mmol of example 15A in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave. It was rinsed with argon under ultrasonic treatment for 5 min and then sealed with a suitable septum. Then it was heated in the microwave in 3 cycles in each case for 2 h at 140 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered concentrated by evaporation and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 32 mg of the title compound was obtained 39 of theor. .

In a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave 100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml and 0.75 ml aminoethanol was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and was heated in the microwave for 5 h at 150 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 68 mg of the title compound was obtained 100 of theor. 94 purity according to LC MS .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.75 ml 2 methylpropane 1 2 diamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 57 mg of the title compound was obtained 100 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of 1 amino 2 methylpropan 2 ol was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 56 mg of the title compound was obtained 100 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1 amine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 60 mg of the title compound was obtained 100 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was suspended in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 1 ml diisopropyl ethylamine and then 300 mg 1.492 mmol of 1 trifluoromethyl ethylene 1 2 diamin dihydrochloride were added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 5.7 mg of the title compound was obtained 9 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of 2 2 difluoroethylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 30 mg of the title compound was obtained 55 of theor. 100 .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.314 ml 1.800 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 200 mg 1.793 mmol of 3 fluoroazetidine hydrochloride were added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 22 mg of the title compound was obtained 41 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of dicyclopropylmethylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 25 mg of the title compound was obtained 42 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of aminomethylcyclopropane was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 45 mg of the title compound was obtained 82 of theor. .

100 mg 0.115 mmol approx. 61 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 1 ml of 2 2 2 trifluoroethylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 20 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 35 mg of the title compound was obtained 61 of theor. .

350 mg 0.361 mmol approx. 55 purity of example 21A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 4 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 1.2 ml of 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1 amine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 108 mg of the title compound was obtained 57 of theor. .

128 mg 0.219 mmol of example 22A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2.334 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.584 ml of 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1 amine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 57 mg of the title compound was obtained 46 of theor. .

150 mg 0.186 mmol approx. 66 purity of the compound obtained in example 28A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.6 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.9 ml of 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1 amine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 33 mg of the title compound was obtained 34 of theor. .

150 mg 0.155 mmol approx. 55 purity of the compound obtained in example 21A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2.7 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.423 ml 2.430 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 270 mg 2.420 mmol of 3 fluoroazetidine hydrochloride were added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 30 mg of the title compound was obtained 40 of theor. .

150 mg 0.155 mmol approx. 55 purity of the compound obtained in example 21A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2.7 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.675 ml 2 2 2 trifluoroethylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 21 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 31 mg of the title compound was obtained 39 of theor. .

200 mg 0.206 mmol approx. 55 purity of the compound obtained in example 21A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 4 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 1 ml of aminomethylcyclopropane was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 64 mg of the title compound was obtained 65 of theor. .

150 mg 0.186 mmol approx. 66 purity of the compound obtained in example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.4 ml of 4 4 4 trifluorobutylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 47 mg of the title compound was obtained 48 of theor. .

50 mg 0.09 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazol 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 33A was dissolved in 1 ml of absolute NMP and 336 mg 3.70 mmol of 2 2 2 trifluoroethanamine was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 2 h at 150 C. 18 h at 150 C. 2 h at 160 C. 2 h at 170 C. and 5 h at 170 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 18 mg purity 88 36 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

40 mg 0.07 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazol 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 33A was dissolved in 1 ml of absolute NMP and 334 mg 2.96 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 amine was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 2 h at 150 C. and 1 h at 150 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 hydrochloric acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 27 mg purity 93 70 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 150 mg purity 62 0.18 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 413 mg 3.62 mmol of 1 ethylimidazolidin 2 one 118 mg 0.36 mmol of caesium carbonate 5 mg 0.04 mmol of copper I oxide and 20 mg 0.15 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 35 mg purity 91 35 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

The title compound was obtained as a side component in the experiment for example 38A. Yield 57 mg 9 of theor. 86 purity 

Under argon atmosphere 150 mg purity 62 0.18 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 26 mg 0.27 mmol of 3 5 dimethyl 1H pyrazole 118 mg 0.36 mmol of caesium carbonate 5 mg 0.04 mmol of copper I oxide and 20 mg 0.15 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 150 C. Then 346 mg 3.62 mmol of 3 5 dimethyl 1H pyrazole was added and the mixture was heated in the microwave for 45 min at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 20 mg 23 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2.5 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 545 mg 4.82 mmol of 3 fluoropyridin 2 ol 157 mg 0.48 mmol of caesium carbonate 7 mg 0.05 mmol of copper I oxide and 20 mg 0.15 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 20 mg 23 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2.5 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 738 mg 4.82 mmol of 4 trifluoromethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 157 mg 0.48 mmol of caesium carbonate 7 mg 0.05 mmol of copper I oxide and 26 mg 0.19 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 26 mg 19 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under an argon atmosphere 150 mg purity 62 0.18 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 304 mg 3.62 mmol of 1H pyrazol 4 ol 118 mg 0.36 mmol of caesium carbonate 5 mg 0.04 mmol of copper I oxide and 20 mg 0.15 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 20 mg 24 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

In addition 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 4 1H pyrazol 4 yloxy 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one was obtained in this batch see example 27 .

Formed during the preparation in example 26 see example 26 . 20 mg 23 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 150 mg purity 62 0.18 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 405 mg 3.62 mmol of 1 1H pyrazol 3 yl ethanol 118 mg 0.36 mmol of caesium carbonate 5 mg 0.04 mmol of copper I oxide and 20 mg 0.15 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 20 mg 24 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2.5 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 656 mg 4.82 mmol of 4 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 157 mg 0.48 mmol of caesium carbonate 7 mg 0.05 mmol of copper I oxide and 26 mg 0.19 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 85 mg 63 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2.5 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 656 mg 4.82 mmol of 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 157 mg 0.48 mmol of caesium carbonate 7 mg 0.05 mmol of copper I oxide and 26 mg 0.19 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 41 mg 33 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

The title compound was obtained as a side component in the experiment for example 43A. Yield 72 mg 14 of theor. 83 purity .

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was put in 4 ml of absolute NMP and 924 mg 4.82 mmol of 2 trifluoromethyl morpholine and 623 mg 4.82 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 5 h. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 60 mg 46 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under an argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was put in 4 ml of absolute NMP and 671 mg 4.82 mmol of 3 trifluoromethyl pyrrolidine was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 5 h. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 65 mg 49 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon 80 mg 0.19 mmol of the compound from example 31 was largely dissolved in 2 ml THF 32.5 mg 0.29 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 ol 75 mg 0.29 mmol of triphenyl phosphine and 56 l 0.29 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate were added and it was stirred for 3 d at RT. A further 11 mg 0.01 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 ol 25 mg 0.01 mmol of triphenyl phosphine and 19 l 0.01 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate were added and it was stirred for 1 d at RT. The reaction mixture was concentrated by evaporation and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC Reprosil C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 48 mg 49 of theor. 

60 mg 0.12 mmol of the compound from example 38A was dissolved in 1.2 ml NMP and after adding 0.3 ml of 3 3 3 trifluoropropylamine in a sealed microwave vessel it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Reprosil C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 38 mg 65 of theor. 

Under an argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 69 0.27 mmol of 2 8 2 fluorobenzyl imidazo 1 5 a pyrimidin 6 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 52A was suspended in 3.2 ml of absolute NMP and 607 mg 5.37 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 amine was added. The mixture was stirred for 1.5 h at 150 C. in the microwave. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 hydrochloric acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 41 mg 31 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

111.1 mg 1.0 mmol of 1 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl methanamine was put in a vial of a microwave reactor block and a solution of 51.4 mg 100 mol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A in 0.6 ml of 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone was added. Then the reactor block was sealed and was irradiated for 6 h with microwaves in order to reach and maintain a temperature of the mixture of 170 C. After cooling it was purified by preparative LC MS method 6 . The product containing fractions were concentrated by evaporation by means of a centrifugal dryer under vacuum. The residue of the individual fractions was in each case dissolved in 0.6 ml DMSO and combined. Then the solvent was evaporated completely in the centrifugal dryer. 32.7 mg 61 of theor. of the target product was obtained.

150 mg 0.186 mmol approx. 66 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.5 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of R 1 cyclopropylethylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water water 1 trifluoroacetic acid 70 24 6 . 54 mg of the title compound was obtained 59 of theor. .

150 mg 0.186 mmol approx. 66 purity of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.5 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.5 ml of S 1 cyclopropylethylamine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water water 1 trifluoroacetic acid 70 24 6 . 69 mg of the title compound was obtained 75 of theor. .

150 mg 0.231 mmol approx. 84 purity of example 53A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 1 ml of 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1 amine was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 89 mg of the title compound was obtained 73 of theor. .

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 2.5 ml of absolute acetonitrile and 806 mg 4.82 mmol of 5 trifluoromethyl piperidin 2 one 157 mg 0.48 mmol of caesium carbonate 7 mg 0.05 mmol of copper I oxide and 26 mg 0.19 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde oxime were added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 200 C. The reaction solution was filtered and purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 15 mg 11 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 4 ml of absolute 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone and 550 mg 4.82 mmol of 3 methylpiperazin 2 one was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 3 h at 150 C. and for 3 h at 220 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 61 mg purity 100 50 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 4 ml of absolute 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone and 652 mg 4.82 mmol of thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave for 3 h at 150 C. and 1 h at 200 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 72 mg 57 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 4 ml of absolute 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone and 618 mg 4.82 mmol of N pyrrolidin 3 yl acetamide was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 122 mg 98 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

Under argon atmosphere 200 mg purity 62 0.24 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was suspended in 4 ml of absolute 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone and 555 mg 4.82 mmol of trans 4 aminocyclohexanol was added. The mixture was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC eluent acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient 20 80 100 0 . 91 mg 73 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

300 mg 0.372 mmol purity 66 of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 5 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 300 mg 2.324 mmol of 3 amino 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 propanol was added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and heated twice in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 164 mg of the title compound was obtained 83 of theor. 

164 mg of the racemate obtained was separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC solvent iso hexane ethanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 80 20 wavelength 210 nM on chiral phase Daicel Chiralpak OZ H HPLC 5 M 250 20 mm 

100 mg 0.115 mmol purity 61 of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 164 mg 1.146 mmol of 2 2 difluorocyclopropylmethylamine hydrochloride and 0.24 ml 1.375 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 12 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 21 mg of the title compound was obtained 35 of theor. .

200 mg 0.376 mmol of example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 98 mg 1.127 mmol of 1 aminomethyl cyclopropanol was added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 12 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 56 mg of the title compound was obtained 31 of theor. .

200 mg 0.376 mmol of example 16A was dissolved in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3 ml and 254 mg 1.879 mmol of 1 2 2 dimethylcyclopropyl methanamine hydrochloride and 0.393 ml 2.254 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine were added. Then it was sealed with a corresponding septum and it was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 64 mg of the title compound was obtained 33 of theor. .

84 mg 0.150 mmol of example 58A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 112 mg 0.750 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1 amine hydrochloride and 0.157 ml 0.900 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 27 mg of the title compound was obtained 33 of theor. .

1.00 g 2.167 mmol of example 59A was reacted on the analogy of the specification in example 15A. 173 mg 17 of theor. of the title compound and 0.887 g of ethyl 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 methyl 6 oxo 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 5 carboxylate example 60A were obtained.

200 mg 0.376 mmol of example 16A was dissolved in 3 ml water and 3 ml tetrahydrofuran in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and was heated in the microwave for 1 h at 140 C. Then 1.127 ml 1.127 mmol of 1M sodium hydroxide solution was added and it was heated in the microwave for a further 14 h at 140 C. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . 24 mg of the title compound was obtained 15 of theor. .

100 mg 0.18 mmol of 2 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.1 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.19 ml 1.07 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 140 mg 0.89 mmol of 4 4 difluoropiperidine hydrochloride were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and was heated in the microwave for 5 h at 150 C. Then the same amounts of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 4 4 difluoropiperidine hydrochloride were added again to the reaction solution and the reaction mixture was stirred for 6 h at 150 C. in the microwave. Water was added to the reaction mixture the precipitated solid was stirred for 30 min at room temperature and then filtered off. The precipitated solid was stirred with 1 ml acetonitrile the solid was filtered off and was washed with 0.5 ml acetonitrile. 63 mg of the target compound 64 of theor. was obtained.

100 mg 0.18 mmol approx. 95 purity of 2 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 16A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.1 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.19 ml 1.07 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 97 mg 0.89 mmol of azetidin 3 ol hydrochloride were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and was heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling water trifluoroacetic acid was added to the reaction mixture and the resultant solid was filtered off. The filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . 19 mg of the title compound was obtained 21 of theor. purity 93 .

150 mg 0.21 mmol purity approx. 71 of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 15A was dissolved in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.1 ml in a reaction vessel suitable for a microwave and 0.29 ml 1.66 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine and 165 mg 0.83 mmol of 1 azetidin 3 yl pyrrolidine dihydrochloride were added. Then the reaction vessel was sealed with a septum and heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 6 h. After cooling water was added to the reaction mixture. It was stirred for 30 min and filtered to remove the resultant solid. The filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . The product fraction was dissolved in dichloromethane and was washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by evaporation. 52 mg of the title compound was obtained 46 of theor. purity 94 .

0.71 ml of a 2N solution of hydrogen chloride in diethyl ether was added to 81 mg 0.24 mmol of tert. butyl 1 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 6 oxo 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 ylpyrrolidin 3 yl carbamate racemate example 61A and it was stirred for 4 h at room temperature. The reaction solution was concentrated and was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . The concentrated fractions were dissolved in dichloromethane and washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The combined aqueous phases were extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by evaporation. 37 mg 55 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

0.66 ml of a 2N solution of hydrogen chloride in diethyl ether was added to 81 mg 0.13 mmol purity 91 of tert. butyl 1 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 6 oxo 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl azetidin 3 yl carbamate example 62A and it was stirred for 4 h at room temperature. The reaction solution was concentrated by evaporation and purified twice by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . The concentrated fractions were dissolved in dichloromethane and washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The combined aqueous phases were extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated by evaporation. 31 mg 49 of theor. of the target compound was obtained.

The title compound was prepared similarly to the specification for example 35 starting from 100 mg 0.16 mmol of example 70A and 372 mg 3.29 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoro propylamine.

6.0 g 14.87 mmol of example 13A was dissolved in 60 ml of trifluoroacetic acid heating and cooled in an ice bath. While stirring 6.7 ml of water and then in small portions within 1 h 1.54 g 22.3 mmol of sodium nitrite were added. Then the reaction mixture was poured into 250 ml water and the resultant precipitate was filtered with suction. The solid was left to precipitate in 50 ml water adjusted to pH 6 with conc. sodium hydrogen carbonate solution filtered with suction again washed with water and dried. Yield 5.75 g 94 of theor. 

LC MS method 1 R 0.92 min MS ESIpos m z 405 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.33 s 6H 5.86 s 2H 7.16 t 1H 7.23 t 1H 7.28 7.41 m 2H 7.49 dd 1H 8.61 8.85 m 2H 11.11 s 1H 12.12 br s 0.2H 12.44 br s 0.8H .

Under argon 80 mg 0.18 mmol of the compound from example 116 was dissolved in 2 ml THF and 0.4 ml DMF and 31 mg 0.27 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 ol 71.5 mg 0.27 mmol of triphenyl phosphine and 57 l 0.27 mmol of 94 diisopropyl azodicarboxylate were added and it was stirred overnight at RT. A further 71.5 mg 0.27 mmol of triphenyl phosphine was added and it was treated for 15 min in the ultrasonic bath then a further 57.5 l 0.27 mmol of 94 diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added dropwise and it was stirred overnight at RT. Then 31 mg 0.27 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 ol and 71.5 mg 0.27 mmol of triphenyl phosphine were added it was treated for 15 min in the ultrasonic bath 57.5 l 0.27 mmol of 94 diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred overnight at RT. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Chromatorex C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 41 mg 42 of theor. 

Under argon 80 mg 0.20 mmol of the compound from example 109 13 mg 16 l 0.22 mmol of n propanol and 57 mg 0.22 mmol of triphenyl phosphine were suspended in 0.8 ml THF mixed for 10 min in the ultrasonic bath and finally 44 mg 43 l 0.22 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred for 1 h at RT. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Reprosil C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 48 mg 55 of theor. 

Similarly to the specification for example 111 150 mg 0.37 mmol of example 109 24 l 0.41 mmol of ethanol and 107 mg 0.41 mmol of triphenyl phosphine were mixed in 1.5 ml THF for 10 min in the ultrasonic bath 82.5 mg 0.41 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred overnight at RT. Then a further 24 l 0.41 mmol of ethanol and 107 mg 0.41 mmol of triphenyl phosphine were added mixed for 5 min in the ultrasonic bath 82.5 mg 0.41 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred for approx. 30 min at RT. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Reprosil C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 25 mg 16 of theor. .

Similarly to the specification for example 111 200 mg 0.50 mmol of example 109 39 mg 0.54 mmol of cyclopropanemethanol and 143 mg 0.54 mmol of triphenyl phosphine were mixed in 2 ml THF for 10 min in the ultrasonic bath 110 mg 0.11 ml 0.54 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred overnight at RT. Then a further 14 mg 0.19 mmol of cyclopropanemethanol 48 mg 0.18 mmol of triphenyl phosphine and 35 ml 0.17 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate were added and it was stirred for 1.5 h at RT. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Chromatorex C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 52 mg 23 of theor. 

Under argon 57 mg 0.22 mmol of triphenyl phosphine was dissolved in 1.5 ml THF 43 l 0.22 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate and 25 mg 0.22 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 ol were added and it was stirred for 10 min. Then a suspension of 80 mg of example 109 in 0.5 ml DMF which had been treated for 3 min in the ultrasonic bath was added and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight at RT solution . A further 57 mg 0.22 mmol of triphenyl phosphine was added the mixture was treated for 10 min in the ultrasonic bath then a further 43 l 0.22 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred overnight. Then a further 25 mg 0.22 mmol of 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 1 ol and 57 mg 0.22 mmol of triphenyl phosphine were added the reaction mixture was treated for 10 min in the ultrasonic bath then 43 l 0.22 mmol of diisopropyl azodicarboxylate was added and it was stirred for another night at RT. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Reprosil C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 37 mg 37 of theor. 

177 mg 0.54 mmol of caesium carbonate and 114 mg 0.54 mmol of 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl iodide were added to a suspension of 200 mg 0.5 mmol of the compound from example 109 in DMF 1.97 ml and it was stirred overnight at RT. Then it was heated in the microwave to 120 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was purified by preparative HPLC Chromatorex C18 gradient of acetonitrile 0.01 aq. formic acid . Yield 14.5 mg 6 of theor. .

On the analogy of the preparation of example 16A 5.11 g 11.629 mmol of example 69A was reacted. 660 mg 12 of theor. of the title compound and 2.39 g of 2 1 2 3 difluorobenzyl 5 fluoro 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one example 70A were obtained.

Similarly to example 1 100 mg 0.19 mmol of example 15A 121 mg 1.94 mmol of ethylene glycol 9 mg 0.039 mmol of 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline 3.7 mg 0.019 mmol of copper I iodide and 126 mg 0.39 mmol of caesium carbonate in 3 ml toluene were heated in the microwave in 4 cycles for in each case 2 h at 140 C. Yield 24 mg 28 of theor. 

The pharmacological action of the compounds according to the invention can be demonstrated in the following assays 

Rabbits are stunned with a blow on the back of the neck and exsanguinated. The aorta is removed freed from adhering tissue separated into rings with a width of 1.5 mm and placed individually with preloading in 5 ml organ baths with carbogen gassed Krebs Henseleit solution at 37 C. with the following composition mM in each case sodium chloride 119 potassium chloride 4.8 calcium chloride dihydrate 1 magnesium sulphate heptahydrate 1.4 potassium dihydrogen phosphate 1.2 sodium hydrogen carbonate 25 glucose 10. The contraction force is recorded with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via an A D converter DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on a continuous line recorder. To produce contraction phenylephrine is added to the bath cumulatively in increasing concentration. After several control cycles the test substance is added in increasing dosage in each subsequent pass and the level of contraction is compared with the level of contraction reached in the immediately preceding pass. This is used for calculating the concentration that is required to reduce the level of the control value by 50 ICvalue . The standard application volume is 5 l and the proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Representative ICvalues for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the following table Table 1 

The cellular action of the compounds according to the invention is determined on a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. 339 104 112 2005 .

Representative values MEC minimal effective concentration for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the following table Table 2 

The blood pressure measurement on awake rats described below uses a commercially available telemetry system from the company DATA SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL DSI USA.

The telemetry system provides continuous acquisition of blood pressure heart rate and body movement on awake animals in their usual living space.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR Okamoto with a body weight of 200 g. SHR NCrl from Okamoto Kyoto School of Medicine 1963 were crossed from male Wistar Kyoto rats with greatly increased blood pressure and females with slightly raised blood pressure and were delivered in F13 to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.

After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are kept individually in Makrolon cages type 3. They have free access to standard feed and water.

The day night rhythm in the testing laboratory is alternated by the room lighting at 06 00 hours in the morning and at 19 00 hours in the evening.

The TA11 PA C40 telemetry transmitters used are implanted surgically in the experimental animals under aseptic conditions at least 14 days before the first test. The animals provided with this instrumentation can be used again after the wound has healed and the implant has become incorporated.

For implantation the fasting animals are anaesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and are shaved and disinfected on a wide area of the abdomen. After opening the abdominal cavity along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted above the bifurcation in the cranial direction into the aorta descendens and secured with tissue adhesive VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally on the abdominal wall musculature and the wound is closed layer by layer.

Postoperatively an antibiotic is administered to prevent infection Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. 

Unless described otherwise the test substances are in each case administered orally by stomach tube to a group of animals n 6 . Corresponding to an application volume of 5 ml kg body weight the test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 Tylose.

The present telemetry measuring device is configured for 24 animals. Each test is recorded under a test number test year month day .

The instrumented rats living in the unit are each assigned their own receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI .

The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by an in built magnetic switch. They are switched to transmission at the start of the tests. The signals emitted can be recorded online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for WINDOWS DSI and processed appropriately. The data are saved in each case to a folder opened for this which bears the test number.

Recording of the measured values is repeated at 5 minute intervals under computer control. The source data recorded as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure Ambient Pressure Reference Monitor APR 1 and saved in individual data. Further technical details can be found in the extensive documentation of the manufacturer DSI .

Unless described otherwise the test substances are administered on the test day at 09.00 hours. Following application the parameters described above are measured for 24 hours.

After the end of the test the individual data recorded are sorted with the analysis software DATAQUEST A. R.T. ANALYSIS . The 2 hours before application are taken as the blank value here so that the selected data set comprises the period from 07 00 hours on the test day to 09 00 hours on the next day.

The data are smoothed for a pre settable time by mean value determination 15 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The pre sorted and compressed measured values are transferred to Excel templates and presented as tables. The data recorded are saved per test day in a specific folder which bears the test number. Results and test protocols are filed in folders sorted in paper form by numbers.

Klaus Witte Kai Hu Johanna Swiatek Claudia M ssig Georg Ertl and Bj rn Lemmer Experimental heart failure in rats effects on cardiovascular circadian rhythms and on myocardial adrenergic signaling. Cardiovasc Res 47 2 203 405 2000 Kozo Okamoto Spontaneous hypertension in rats. Int Rev Exp Pathol 7 227 270 1969 Maarten van den Buuse Circadian Rhythms of Blood Pressure Heart Rate and Locomotor Activity in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats as Measured with Radio Telemetry. Physiology Behavior 55 4 783 787 1994

The pharmacokinetic parameters of the compounds according to the invention are determined in male CD 1 mice male Wistar rats and female beagles. Intravenous administration takes place in mice and rats using a species specific plasma DMSO formulation and in dogs using a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. Oral administration of the dissolved substance by stomach tube is carried out in all species on the basis of a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. To simplify collection of blood prior to administration of the substance the rats are fitted with a silicone catheter in the right vena jugularis externa. The operation is performed at least one day before the test under isoflurane anaesthesia and with administration of an analgesic atropine Rimadyl 3 1 0.1 mL s.c. . Blood collection as a rule more than 10 time points takes place in a time window that includes terminal time points from at least 24 to max. 72 hours after administration of the substance. On collection the blood is led into heparinized tubes. Then the blood plasma is obtained by centrifugation and optionally stored at 20 C. until further processing.

An internal standard which can also be a chemically unrelated substance is added to the samples of the compounds according to the invention the calibration samples and the qualifiers and then protein precipitation is carried out using acetonitrile in excess. After adding a buffer solution which is suitable for the LC conditions and then vortexing centrifugation is carried out at 1000 g. The supernatant is measured by LC MS MS using C18 reversed phase columns and variable eluent mixtures. The substances are quantified on the basis of the peak heights or areas from extracted ion chromatograms of specific selected ion monitoring experiments.

The pharmacokinetic parameters such as AUC C t terminal half life MRT mean residence time and CL clearance are calculated from the plasma concentration time curves obtained by means of validated pharmacokinetics software.

As substance quantification takes place in plasma the blood plasma distribution of the substance must be determined for appropriate adjustment of the pharmacokinetic parameters. For this a defined amount of the substance in heparinized whole blood of the corresponding species is incubated for 20 min in the tumbling roller mixer. After centrifugation at 1000 g the concentration of the plasma is measured by LC MS MS see above and the C Cvalue is determined by finding the quotient.

To determine the metabolism profile of the compounds according to the invention these are incubated with recombinant human cytochrome P450 CYP enzymes liver microsomes or with primary fresh hepatocytes of various animal species e.g. rat dog as well as of human origin in order to obtain and compare information on hepatic phase I and phase II metabolism that is as complete as possible and on the enzymes involved in metabolism.

The compounds according to the invention were incubated at a concentration of about 0.1 10 M. For this stock solutions of the compounds according to the invention with a concentration of 0.01 1 mM were prepared in acetonitrile and then pipetted at 1 100 dilution into the incubation preparation. The liver microsomes and recombinant enzymes were incubated at 37 C. in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 with and without NADPH generating system consisting of 1 mM NADP 10 mM glucose 6 phosphate and 1 unit of glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase. Primary hepatocytes were also incubated at 37 C. in suspension in Williams E medium. After an incubation time of 0 4 h the incubation assays were stopped with acetonitrile final concentration approx. 30 and the protein was centrifuged off at approx. 15000 g. The samples stopped in this way were either analysed directly or were stored at 20 C. until analysis.

The analysis takes place by high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet and mass spectrometry detection HPLC UV MS MS . For this the supernatants of the incubation samples are chromatographed with suitable C18 reversed phase columns and variable eluent mixtures of acetonitrile and 10 mM aqueous ammonium formate solution or 0.05 formic acid. The UV chromatograms in conjunction with mass spectrometry data serve for identification structure elucidation and quantitative estimation of the metabolites and the quantitative metabolic decrease of the compound according to the invention in the incubation assays.

PDE 5 preparations are obtained from human platelets by lysis Microfluidizer 800 bar 3 passages followed by centrifugation 75000 g 60 min 4 C. and ion exchange chromatography of the supernatant on a Mono Q 10 10 column linear sodium chloride gradient elution with a 0.2 0.3M solution of sodium chloride in buffer 20 mM Hepes pH 7.2 2 mM magnesium chloride . Fractions that have PDE 5 activity are combined PDE 5 preparation and stored at 80 C.

For determining their in vitro action on human PDE 5 the test substances are dissolved in 100 DMSO and serial dilutions are prepared. Typically dilution series 1 3 from 200 M to 0.091 M are prepared resultant final concentrations in the test 4 M to 0.0018 M . In each case 2 L of the diluted solutions of the substance are put in the wells of microtitre plates Isoplate 96 200W Perkin Elmer . Then 50 L of a dilution of the PDE 5 preparation described above is added. The dilution of the PDE 5 preparation is selected so that during subsequent incubation less than 70 of the substrate is reacted typical dilution 1 100 dilution buffer 50 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 8.3 mM magnesium chloride 1.7 mM EDTA 0.2 BSA . The substrate 8 H cyclic guanosine 3 5 monophosphate 1 Ci L Perkin Elmer is diluted 1 2000 with assay buffer 50 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 8.3 mM magnesium chloride 1.7 mM EDTA to a concentration of 0.0005 Ci L. The enzyme reaction is finally started by adding 50 L 0.025 Ci of the diluted substrate. The test preparations are incubated for 60 min at room temperature and the reaction is stopped by adding 25 L of a suspension of 18 mg mL of Yttrium Scintillation Proximity Beads in water phosphodiesterase beads for SPA assays RPNQ 0150 Perkin Elmer . The microtitre plates are sealed with film and left to stand for 60 min at room temperature. Then the plates are measured for 30 s per well in a Microbeta scintillation counter Perkin Elmer . ICvalues are determined on the basis of the graphs plotted of the substance concentration versus the percentage PDE 5 inhibition.

Representative ICvalues for the compounds according to the invention are presented in the following table Table 3 

The organ protective effects of the sGC stimulators were demonstrated in a therapeutically relevant low nitric oxide NO high renin hypertension model in rats. The study was carried out on the basis of the recent publication Sharkovska Y Kalk P Lawrenz B Godes M Hoffmann L S Wellkisch K Geschka S Relle K Hocher B Stasch J P. NO independent stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase reduces target organ damage in low and high renin models of hypertension. J. Hypertension. 2010 28 1666 1675 . In this renin transgenic rats TGR mRen2 27 which were administered the NO synthase inhibitor L NAME in the drinking water were treated simultaneously with an sGC stimulator or vehicle for several weeks. Haemodynamic and renal parameters were determined during the treatment period. At the end of the long term study organ protection kidney lung heart aorta was demonstrated by histopathological investigations biomarkers expression analyses and cardiovascular plasma parameters.

The compounds according to the invention can be transformed as follows into pharmaceutical preparations 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg lactose monohydrate 50 mg maize starch native 10 mg polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg magnesium stearate.

The mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 solution w w of PVP in water. After drying the granules are mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed with a usual tablet press see above for tablet format . A pressing force of 15 kN is used as a guide value for compression.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg ethanol 96 400 mg Rhodigel xanthan gum from the company FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g water.

An individual dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 10 ml of oral suspension.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. Water is added while stirring. It is stirred for approx. 6 h until swelling of the Rhodigel has ceased.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g polysorbate and 97 g polyethylene glycol 400. An individual dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 20 g of oral solution.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in a mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. Stirring is continued until the compound according to the invention has dissolved completely.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved at a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically compatible solvent e.g. isotonic saline glucose solution 5 and or PEG 400 solution 30 . The solution is sterile filtered and filled in sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

