---

title: Cell design
abstract: One or more techniques or systems for designing a cell are provided. The cell generally includes one or more transistors, such as a pass gate transistor, a pull up transistor, or a pull down transistor, respectively associated one or more gate to gate distances. In some embodiments, a second gate to gate distance is selected based on a first gate to gate distance. For example, the first gate to gate distance and the second gate to gate distance are associated with a first transistor. In another example, the first gate to gate distance is associated with a first transistor and the second gate to gate distance is associated with a second transistor. In this manner, a cell design is provided to improve a static noise margin (SNM) or a write margin (WM) for the cell, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275181&OS=09275181&RS=09275181
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09275181
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120921
---
Generally a cell such as a static random access memory SRAM cell comprises one or more transistors. In an example an SRAM cell is a bit cell comprising one or more transistors. In this manner an SRAM cell is at times referred to as an SRAM bit cell. In an example an SRAM cell or SRAM bit cell comprises a pass gate transistor a pull up transistor or a pull down transistor. Performance associated with the SRAM cell is generally associated with at least one of an alpha ratio a beta ratio a static noise margin SNM a write margin WM or a Vccmin voltage. Generally a Vccmin voltage is a minimum voltage that a cell operates at reliably for example. However improvement in one feature of the SRAM cell such as the alpha ratio is generally associated with a decline in another feature of the SRAM cell such as the beta ratio and vice versa for example.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and systems for designing a cell are provided herein. In some embodiments a cell is a static random access memory SRAM cell. In an example an SRAM cell is a bit cell comprising one or more transistors. In this manner an SRAM cell is at times referred to as an SRAM bit cell. Additionally an SRAM cell design associated with at least one of an improved alpha ratio beta ratio static noise margin SNM write margin WM or Vccmin voltage for the SRAM cell is provided herein. For example in some embodiments transistors within an SRAM cell are designed in an asymmetric fashion such that not all transistors within the SRAM cell are symmetrical or identical. In other words a second transistor is associated with a first gate to gate distance and a second gate to gate distance such that the first gate to gate distance is different than the second gate to gate distance. For example when a first transistor comprising a first gate is adjacent to a second transistor comprising a second gate and the second transistor is adjacent to a third transistor comprising a third gate a first gate to gate distance is a distance from the first gate of the first transistor to the second gate of the second transistor and a second gate to gate distance is a distance from the second gate of the second transistor to the third gate of the third transistor. Therefore the second transistor is asymmetrical at least because the first gate to gate distance is different than or not equal to the second gate to gate distance of the second transistor. For example increasing the first gate to gate distance between the first gate of first transistor and the second gate of the second transistor creates a higher strain effect for at least one of the first transistor or the second transistor thus reducing the effective resistance for respective transistors. Accordingly the asymmetric design of the second transistor enables a feature such as at least one of the alpha ratio the beta ratio the SNM the WM or Vccmin voltage to be improved. For example the alpha ratio is improved such that the beta ratio is not impacted in a negative fashion at least because the first gate to gate distance and the second gate to gate distance of the second transistor are asymmetrical. In this way a second transistor design of the second transistor decouples the alpha ratio and the beta ratio.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In some embodiments the first transistor is associated with a first length a first width a first width to length ratio a gate to gate distance a first I V characteristic a first effective resistance a first source effective resistance a first drain effective resistance or a first transistor design. It will be appreciated that while a transistor such as the first transistor is at times said to be associated with a gate to gate distance herein that such language or similar language does not mean to imply that a single transistor defines a gate to gate distance. Rather a gate to gate distance is a function of two transistors because a gate to gate distance is a distance from a gate of one transistor to a gate of another transistor. Thus while language such as transistor associated with gate to gate distance or the like is at times used herein it is to be appreciated that the gate to gate distance is not associated with merely a single transistor but is also associated with or a function of an adjacent transistor. It will be appreciated that the first width to length ratio is determined by dividing the first width by the first length . In some embodiments the second transistor is associated with a second length a second width a second width to length ratio the gate to gate distance a second I V characteristic a second effective resistance a second source effective resistance a second drain effective resistance or a second transistor design. For example the second width to length ratio is determined by dividing the second width by the second length . Generally a transistor comprises an oxide diffusion region OD for example. In some embodiments at least one of the first width or the second width is selected or adjusted by changing an OD to OD distance . For example the OD to OD distance is a distance associated with an OD spacing effect at least because the first transistor comprises the first width and the second transistor comprises the second width different than the first width .

In some embodiments at least one of the first I V characteristic second I V characteristic first effective resistance the second effective resistance the first source effective resistance the second source effective resistance the first drain effective resistance or the second drain effective resistance is selected or adjusted by adjusting the gate to gate distance . For example the gate to gate distance is a distance from the first gate of the first transistor to the second gate of the second transistor . Increasing the gate to gate distance from the first gate of the first transistor to the second gate of the second transistor increases a strain effect associated with the first transistor and the second transistor thus decreasing the first effective resistance and the second effective resistance. In an example if the second region of the first transistor is a source region and the gate to gate distance is increased the strain effect associated with the first transistor is increased thus decreasing a first source effective resistance associated with the source region such as the second region . Conversely decreasing the gate to gate distance from the first gate of the first transistor to the second gate of the second transistor decreases the strain effect associated with the first transistor and the second transistor thus increasing the first effective resistance and the second effective resistance.

In an example the second region of the first transistor is a source region and the gate to gate distance is decreased. Accordingly a strain effect associated with the first transistor is decreased thus increasing a first source effective resistance associated with the source region such as the second region . It will be appreciated that at least one of a first drain effective resistance a second source effective resistance or a second drain effective resistance is determined in a similar fashion based on at least one of an increase or decrease in the gate to gate distance for example. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the gate to gate distance is selected to control at least one of the first effective resistance first source effective resistance first drain effective resistance of the first transistor second effective resistance second source effective resistance or second drain effective resistance of the second transistor .

In some embodiments a beta ratio or cell ratio associated with a SRAM cell is equal to a width to length ratio of a pull down transistor of the SRAM cell divided by a width to length ratio of a pass gate transistor of the SRAM cell. Additionally the beta ratio associated with the SRAM cell is equal to an effective resistance of the pass gate transistor of the SRAM cell divided by an effective resistance of the pull down transistor of the SRAM cell. In some embodiments an alpha ratio or a pull up ratio associated with a SRAM cell is equal to a width to length ratio of a pull up transistor of the SRAM cell divided by a width to length ratio of a pass gate transistor of the SRAM cell. Additionally the alpha ratio associated with the SRAM cell is equal to an effective resistance of the pass gate transistor of the SRAM cell divided by an effective resistance of the pull up transistor of the SRAM cell. In some embodiments the beta ratio is larger and the alpha ratio is smaller. For example a larger beta ratio improves a static noise margin SNM of the SRAM cell and a smaller alpha ratio improves a write margin WM of the SRAM cell. Accordingly the larger beta ratio or the smaller alpha ratio enables a reduction of a Vccmin voltage for the SRAM cell. As an example an SRAM cell comprises a pull down transistor a pull up transistor and a pass gate transistor. In this example 

Generally the beta ratio is increased by at least one of increasing an effective resistance of the pass gate transistor R relative to an effective resistance of the pull down transistor R or decreasing the effective resistance of the pull down transistor R relative to the effective resistance of the pass gate transistor R .

Generally the alpha ratio is decreased by at least one of decreasing an effective resistance of the pass gate transistor R relative to an effective resistance of the pull up transistor R increasing the effective resistance of the pull up transistor R relative to the effective resistance of the pass gate transistor R .

In some embodiments a transistor is designed such that an effective resistance of the transistor changes based on at least one of a forward read current associated with a read operation for the transistor or a reverse read current associated with a write operation for the transistor. For example a pass gate transistor is designed such that a forward read current of the pass gate transistor is greater than a reverse read current of the pass gate transistor. In some embodiments the forward read current flows from a drain of the pass gate transistor to a source of the pass gate transistor. Conversely the reverse read current of the pass gate transistor flows from the source of the pass gate transistor to the drain of the pass gate transistor. In some embodiments the forward read current is greater than the reverse read current when an effective resistance of the drain is greater than an effective resistance of the source. In other words where

Accordingly a pass gate transistor following such a pass gate transistor design is associated with a forward read current greater than a reverse read current. For example the forward read current or a forward operation is associated with current flowing from the drain of the transistor to the source of the transistor. Additionally the reverse read current or reverse operation is associated with current flowing from the source of the transistor to the drain of the transistor. Therefore when current flows from the source of the pass gate transistor to the drain of the pass gate transistor the pass gate transistor as a whole is associated with a higher effective resistance than when current flows from the drain of the pass gate transistor to the source of the pass gate transistor thus improving the beta ratio by exhibiting an increased effective resistance during reverse operation such as a read operation for example. Conversely when current flows from the drain of the pass gate transistor to the source of the pass gate transistor the pass gate transistor as a whole is associated with a lower effective resistance than when current flows from the source of the pass gate transistor to the drain of the pass gate transistor thus improving the alpha ratio by exhibiting a decreased effective resistance as a whole during reverse operation such as a write operation for example.

In some embodiments a second effective resistance of a second transistor is selected based on a first effective resistance of a first transistor . In some embodiments the second effective resistance of the second transistor is selected based on a gate to gate distance from the first transistor to the second transistor . It will be appreciated that at least one of a second source effective resistance or a second drain effective resistance are selected in a similar fashion. In some embodiments the second effective resistance is different than the first effective resistance. For example if the first transistor is a pass gate transistor and the second transistor is a pull up transistor the first effective resistance of the first pass gate transistor is selected based on the second effective resistance of the second pull up transistor. For example the first effective resistance is selected to be four times less than the second effective resistance at least because this selection results in an alpha ratio of 0.25 for example.

In some embodiments transistors within an SRAM cell are designed in an asymmetric fashion such that a first transistor and a second transistor of the SRAM cell such as transistors and do not comprise a first gate to gate distance being equal to a second gate to gate distance such as the first gate to gate distance and the second gate to gate distance of . In some embodiments the second transistor is associated with an asymmetrical design when viewed using gate as a line of symmetry for example. In some embodiments an increase in the gate to gate distance is associated with an increase in distance but not in distance such that distance is different than distance . Transistor can thus be regarded as having an asymmetrical configuration or asymmetrical design because and are not equal. In some embodiments the first transistor of the SRAM cell such as transistor does not comprise an identical set of characteristics as a second transistor of the SRAM cell such as transistor . In some embodiments the set of characteristics comprises at least one of a width a width to length ratio a contact length a contact width a contact area a contact shape an effective resistance a tensile effect such as a tensile stress a strain effect a compressive effect etc. of a transistor for example. Additionally the set of characteristics comprises at least one of a gate spacing effect based on a gate to gate distance or an oxide diffusion region OD spacing effect associated with an OD to OD distance . Accordingly the asymmetric design of the transistor array facilitates an increase in current to the SRAM cell. In some embodiments the asymmetric design of the transistor array mitigates leakage in a corresponding bit line at least due to an improvement in at least one of an alpha ratio a beta ratio a static noise margin SNM a write margin WM or a Vccmin voltage. It will be appreciated that the design of the transistor array enables the alpha ratio to be selected independent of the beta ratio and vice versa at least because the asymmetric design of the transistor array decouples the alpha ratio and the beta ratio. According to some embodiments the improvement to at least one of the alpha ratio the beta ratio the SNM the WM or the Vccmin voltage is permanent at least because a layout or the design of the transistor array is modified. Additionally it will be appreciated that there is generally little or no cost associated with such a layout modification or design modification.

In some embodiments at least one of the first transistor or the second transistor is at least one of a pull up transistor a pull down transistor or a pass gate transistor as will be described in for example. In some embodiments a drain of the pull down transistor is connected to at least one of a source or a drain of the pass gate transistor. In some embodiments a drain of the pull up transistor is connected to at least one of the source or the drain of the pass gate transistor. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments a first transistor design or a second transistor design results in a transistor array design where the first transistor is asymmetrical with respect to the second transistor . For example a first width of the first transistor is not equal to a second width of the second transistor . In some embodiments it will be appreciated that the first length of the first transistor is equal to the second length of the second transistor while the first width of the first transistor is not equal to the second width of the second transistor . In other words merely the first width and the second width are adjusted or selected to be different.

In some embodiments at least one of the first transistor the second transistor the third transistor or the fourth transistor is configured to be at least one of a pass gate transistor a pull up transistor or a pull down transistor. In some embodiments the first region is a source region for the first transistor and the second region is a drain region for the first transistor . In other embodiments the first region is the drain region for the first transistor and the second region is the source region for the first transistor . In some embodiments the first region is a source region for the second transistor and the second region is a drain region for the second transistor . In other embodiments the first region is the drain region for the second transistor and the second region is the source region for the second transistor . In some embodiments the first region is a source region for the third transistor and the second region is a drain region for the third transistor . In other embodiments the first region is the drain region for the third transistor and the second region is the source region for the third transistor . In some embodiments the first region is a source region for the fourth transistor and the second region is a drain region for the fourth transistor . In other embodiments the first region is the drain region for the fourth transistor and the second region is the source region for the fourth transistor . In some embodiments the first width to length ratio is determined by dividing the first width of the first transistor by the first length of the first transistor . Additionally the second width to length ratio is determined by dividing the second width of the second transistor by the second length of the second transistor . Additionally the third width to length ratio is determined by dividing the third width of the third transistor by the third length of the third transistor . Additionally the fourth width to length ratio is determined by dividing the fourth width of the fourth transistor by the fourth length of the fourth transistor .

It will be appreciated that at least one of a source effective resistance a drain effective resistance or an effective resistance of a transistor is based on a selection of a gate to gate distance associated with the transistor. For example the second transistor is associated with a first gate to gate distance and a second gate to gate distance . When at least one of the first gate to gate distance or the second gate to gate distance is increased a higher strain effect is induced for the second transistor thus reducing a second effective resistance for the second transistor . Additionally when a first gate to gate distance of the second transistor is different than a second gate to gate distance for the second transistor the second transistor is associated with an asymmetric set of I V characteristics. For example the second transistor is associated with a first I V characteristic associated with the first gate to gate distance and a second I V characteristic associated with the second gate to gate distance . In some embodiments the first I V characteristic is different than or asymmetrical with regard to the second I V characteristic at least because the first gate to gate distance is different than the second gate to gate distance . In some embodiments at least one of the first I V characteristic or the second I V characteristic is an effective resistance such as at least one of the second effective resistance the second source effective resistance or the second drain effective resistance. Therefore the second transistor is associated with the second source effective resistance. In some embodiments the second source effective resistance is an effective resistance associated with a source of the second transistor and the second drain effective resistance is an effective resistance associated with a drain of the second transistor . Accordingly a difference in the second source effective resistance and the second drain effective resistance results in a difference in a forward I V characteristic for the second transistor and a reverse I V characteristic for the second transistor .

In some embodiments when an effective resistance of a drain of a pass gate transistor is greater than an effective resistance of a source of the pass gate transistor a forward read current for the pass gate transistor is greater than a reverse read current. For example the forward read current is associated with current flowing from the drain of the transistor to the source of the transistor and a read operation or a forward operation mode. Additionally the reverse read current is associated with current flowing from the source of the transistor to the drain of the transistor and a write operation or a reverse operation mode. Accordingly when current flows from the source of the pass gate transistor to the drain of the pass gate transistor the pass gate transistor as a whole comprises a greater effective resistance than when current flows from the drain of the pass gate transistor to the source of the pass gate transistor thus improving the beta ratio for example. Conversely when current flows from the drain of the pass gate transistor to the source of the pass gate transistor the pass gate transistor as a whole is associated with a lower effective resistance than when current flows from the source of the pass gate transistor to the drain of the pass gate transistor thus improving the alpha ratio for example. In some embodiments the second transistor is configured as a pass gate transistor. In an example the first region is a drain of the second transistor and the second region is a source of the second transistor . In this example a second gate to gate distance is selected to be greater than a first gate to gate distance . Accordingly since a gate to gate distance of a transistor is associated with an effective resistance for a corresponding portion of the transistor a second drain effective resistance associated with the first gate to gate distance is greater than a second source effective resistance associated with the second gate to gate distance . In this way the effective resistance of the second transistor is greater during a read operation for the pass gate transistor and smaller during a write operation for the pass gate transistor such as the second transistor .

In some embodiments a second effective resistance of the second transistor is selected based on at least one of the first gate to gate distance or the second gate to gate distance . For example when the first gate to gate distance and the second gate to gate distance are both increased or selected to be larger a higher strain effect is associated with the second transistor thus reducing the second effective resistance of the second transistor . Conversely when the first gate to gate distance and the second gate to gate distance are both decreased or selected to be smaller a lower strain effect is associated with the second transistor thus increasing the second effective resistance of the second transistor . As an example the first region of the second transistor is a drain of the second transistor and the second region of the second transistor is a source of the second transistor . In this example when the first gate to gate distance is decreased a lower strain effect is associated with the drain thus increasing a second drain effective resistance of the second transistor . When the first gate to gate distance is increased a higher strain effect is associated with the drain thus decreasing the second drain effective resistance of the second transistor . Additionally when the second gate to gate distance is increased a higher strain effect is associated with the source thus reducing a second source effective resistance of the second transistor . Conversely when the second gate to gate distance is decreased a lower strain effect is associated with the source thus increasing the second source effective resistance of the second transistor . In this way at least one of the first gate to gate distance or the second gate to gate distance is adjusted to control at least one of the second effective resistance the second source effective resistance or the second drain effective resistance. It will be appreciated that the second gate to gate distance or the third gate to gate distance are selected in a similar fashion to determine at least one of a third effective resistance a third source effective resistance a third drain effective resistance etc. in some embodiments.

It will be appreciated that the second effective resistance impacts at least one of an alpha ratio or a beta ratio based on a configuration of the second transistor . For example when the second transistor is configured as a pull up transistor an increase in the second effective resistance reduces the alpha ratio. Additionally when the second transistor is configured as a pull down transistor a decrease in the second effective resistance increases the beta ratio. In some embodiments when the second transistor is configured as a pass gate transistor an increase or decrease in the second effective resistance affects at least one of the alpha ratio or the beta ratio in a proportional manner. In some embodiments the second effective resistance is based on at least one of the second source effective resistance the second drain effective resistance or a direction of operation of the second transistor . For example when the second drain effective resistance is greater than the second source effective resistance the second effective resistance changes based on an operation mode such as a forward operation or a reverse operation of the second transistor . In some embodiments the alpha ratio and the beta ratio are based on or proportional to an effective resistance of a pass gate transistor and a larger beta ratio and a smaller alpha ratio are achieved. Therefore by configuring the second drain effective resistance to be greater than the second source effective resistance the second transistor comprises a higher second effective resistance during a read operation at least because the second transistor is in a reverse operation mode. Accordingly the higher second effective resistance facilitates a higher beta ratio. Additionally the second transistor comprises a lower second effective resistance during a write operation at least because the second transistor is in a forward operation mode. Accordingly the lower second effective resistance facilitates a lower alpha ratio. In this way the alpha ratio and the beta ratio are improved in a concurrent manner at least because the second transistor is configured to have a variable resistance based on an operation being performed such as a read operation or a write operation. In other words the second transistor comprises a higher effective resistance while performing a read operation and a lower effective resistance while performing a write operation for example.

In some embodiments a transistor is arranged relative to another transistor based on at least one of a width length or width to length ratio the transistor. For example in the second transistor is arranged adjacent to the third transistor . In some embodiments the second transistor is positioned adjacent to the third transistor at least because the second transistor and the third transistor share a common width and . In other words the second transistor is arranged next to the third transistor at least because the second width of the second transistor is equal to the third width of the third transistor .

In some embodiments an effective resistance of a transistor is associated with a source effective resistance and a drain effective resistance. Additionally the source effective resistance and the drain effective resistance are associated with at least one of a first gate to gate distance or a second gate to gate distance such as the first gate to gate distance or the second gate to gate distance of for example. Accordingly in some embodiments a second effective resistance is selected for the second transistor based on at least one of the first gate to gate distance or the second gate to gate distance. In some embodiments the drain effective resistance is greater than the source effective resistance. Therefore a second gate to gate distance is selected to be different than a first gate to gate distance at least because the second gate to gate distance corresponds to at least one of the drain effective resistance or the source effective resistance and the first gate to gate distance corresponds to at least one of the drain effective resistance or the source effective resistance. For example at when the second gate to gate distance is associated with a source of the second transistor the second gate to gate distance is selected to be greater than the first gate to gate distance at least because such a selection enables the drain effective resistance to be greater than the source effective resistance. Accordingly when the drain effective resistance to be greater than the source effective resistance and the corresponding transistor is configured as a pass gate transistor an effective resistance of the pass gate transistor is larger when the pass gate transistor performs a read operation and smaller when the pass gate transistor performs a write operation. In this way an asymmetrical design for the second transistor associated with the second gate to gate distance and the first gate to gate distance enables improvement for an alpha ratio and a beta ratio for an SRAM cell comprising the pass gate transistor in a concurrent fashion.

Accordingly the first gate to gate distance is associated with the first transistor and the second gate to gate distance is associated with the second transistor. In some embodiments adjusting a gate to gate distance of a transistor changes at least one of an effective resistance of the transistor a source effective resistance of the transistor or a drain effective resistance of the transistor. Therefore selecting the second gate to gate distance for the second transistor based on the first gate to gate distance enables selection of a second effective resistance for the second transistor based on a first effective resistance for the first transistor. In this way an effective resistance ratio between the first transistor and the second transistor is selected for example. Accordingly at least one of an alpha ratio or a beta ratio are selected at least because at least one of the alpha ratio or the beta ratio is based on the effective resistance ratio.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising a plurality of zero s and one s as shown in in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to some aspects a transistor array of a cell is provided comprising a first transistor comprising a first gate. For example the first transistor is associated with a first gate to gate distance from the first gate of the first transistor to a second gate of a second transistor. In some embodiments the transistor array of the cell comprises the second transistor comprising the second gate. For example the second transistor is associated with the first gate to gate distance from the first gate of the first transistor to the second gate of the second transistor and a second gate to gate distance from the second gate of the second transistor to a third gate of a third transistor. Additionally the transistor array of the cell comprises the third transistor comprising the third gate. For example the third transistor is associated with the second gate to gate distance from the second gate of the second transistor to the third gate of the third transistor the first gate to gate distance different than the second gate to gate distance.

According to some aspects a method for designing a cell is provided comprising selecting a first gate to gate distance for a second transistor the first gate to gate distance from a first gate of a first transistor to a second gate of the second transistor. In some embodiments the method comprises selecting a second gate to gate distance for the second transistor based on the first gate to gate distance the second gate to gate distance from the second gate of the second transistor to a third gate of a third transistor.

According to some aspects a method for designing a cell is provided comprising selecting a first gate to gate distance for a first transistor the first gate to gate distance from a first gate of the first transistor to a second gate of a second transistor. In some embodiments the method comprises selecting a second gate to gate distance for the second transistor based on the first gate to gate distance the second gate to gate distance from the second gate of the second transistor to a third gate of a third transistor.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated based on this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur based on a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

