---

title: Submersible pump control
abstract: A system can include an interface to receive sensed data and economic data; a production control framework that includes a module for modeling motor efficiency of an electric submersible pump, a module for modeling gas composition of a fluid being pumped by an electric submersible pump, a module for modeling solid dynamics in a fluid being pumped by an electric submersible pump, a module to update one or more of the modules for modeling in response to receipt of data via the interface; and an interface to output control commands to a controller for an electric submersible pump based at least in part on data received by the interface and analyzed by the production control framework. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09057256&OS=09057256&RS=09057256
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09057256
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120110
---
Electric submersible pumps ESPs may be deployed for any of a variety of pumping purposes. For example where a substance does not readily flow responsive to existing natural forces an ESP may be implemented to artificially lift the substance. Costs and operations associated with ESPs can impact overall economics of an application. Various technologies techniques etc. described herein can provide for control of submersible pumps such as ESPs.

A system can include an interface to receive sensed data and economic data a production control framework that includes a module for modeling motor efficiency of an electric submersible pump a module for modeling gas composition of a fluid being pumped by an electric submersible pump a module for modeling solid dynamics in a fluid being pumped by an electric submersible pump a module to update one or more of the modules for modeling in response to receipt of data via the interface and an interface to output control commands to a controller for an electric submersible pump based at least in part on data received by the interface and analyzed by the production control framework. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Electric submersible pumps ESPs may be deployed for any of a variety of pumping purposes. For example where a substance does not readily flow responsive to existing natural forces an ESP may be implemented to artificially lift the substance. Commercially available ESPs such as the REDA ESPs marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. may find use in applications that require for example pump rates in excess of 4 000 barrels per day and lift of 12 000 feet or more.

ESPs have associated costs including equipment costs replacement costs repair costs and power consumption costs. Selection of appropriate ESP specifications can be an arduous task especially given the fact that many factors are dynamic and even stochastic. For example composition of a pumped substance may vary over time cost of electrical power may vary over time entrainment of solids may vary over time etc. The ability to predict variations in such factors with respect to time may span a spectrum from poor to excellent e.g. depending on available data models etc. . Further adjusting operation of an ESP for a change in one factor may give rise to unintended consequences. For example a change in cost of power may give rise to a need to operate a pump motor with greater efficiency which in turn may alter inlet pressure to the pump which in turn may cause a change in phase composition of a substance being pumped which in turn may impact the ability of centrifugal pump stages to lift the substance. Where a change in phase includes an increase in free gas e.g. approaching 10 by volume a condition known as gas lock may occur a form of cavitation that can cause a pump to surge and fail prematurely.

To assist with selection of ESP specifications a manufacturer may provide a plot with a pump performance curve that defines an optimal operating range for a given pump speed and fluid viscosity. Such a plot may include a head capacity curve that shows amount of lift per pump stage at a given flow rate a horsepower requirements curve across a range of flow capacities and a pump efficiency curve for example calculated from head flow capacity fluid specific gravity and horsepower. As an example an ESP may be specified as having a best efficiency point BEP of about 77 for a flow of about 7 900 barrels per day a head of about 49 feet and a horsepower of about 3.69 for a fluid specific gravity of 1.0 e.g. REDA 538 Series 1 stage at 3 500 RPM at 60 Hz . An ESP may be specified with a lift per stage such that a number of stages may be selected for an application to meet lift requirements.

Adjustments may be made to an ESP for example where the ESP is outfitted with a variable speed drive VSD unit. A VSD unit can include an ESP controller such as for example the UniConn controller marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In combination a VSD unit with an ESP controller allows for variations in motor speed to pump optimal rates at variable frequencies which can better manage power heat etc. As to heat generated by a motor an ESP may rely on flow of pumped fluid for cooling such that a change in motor speed can change steady state operating temperature of the motor and correspondingly efficiency of the motor. Given such relationships trade offs can exist for example between motor lifetime power consumption and flow rate.

To improve ESP operations an ESP may include one or more sensors e.g. gauges that measure any of a variety of phenomena e.g. temperature pressure vibration etc. . A commercially available sensor is the Phoenix MultiSensor marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which monitors intake and discharge pressures intake motor and discharge temperatures and vibration and current leakage. An ESP monitoring system may include a supervisory control and data acquisition system SCADA . Commercially available surveillance systems include the espWatcher and the LiftWatcher surveillance systems marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which provides for communication of data for example between a production team and well field data e.g. with or without SCADA installations . Such a system may issue instructions to for example start stop or control ESP speed via a ESP controller.

As described herein various technologies techniques etc. may be implemented to manage production goals for example by being cognizant of factors such as lifting cost e.g. electricity cost cost of well treatments etc. . Various approaches may include maximizing uptime by predicting detecting and reacting to changing well conditions and extending equipment life through process adjustment.

As an example a controller may be implemented that controls well operations including artificial lift using an ESP. Such a controller may include one or more modules that analyze well performance in conjunction with artificial lift. For example a controller may include or provide access to features of a commercially available modeling framework such as the PIPESIM framework marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PIPESIM framework includes features to model multiphase flow from a reservoir to a wellhead features to account for artificial lift equipment including rod pumps ESPs and gas lift and features to interlink with reservoir and process simulators such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulation framework marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. and the HYSYS process simulator marketed by AspenTech Burlington Mass. . The PIPESIM framework includes a nodal e.g. network model for modeling well flows e.g. producer injector etc. .

As described herein a controller may be configured to control operations for more than one well. In such an example the controller may evaluate relationships between wells in a field optionally via a system of networked controllers. Such a controller may control operations for arrangements where several wells manifold into a common production line. As an example for wells producing from a given reservoir the controller may respond to a change in one well to trigger adjustments to one or more operations in the other wells. A controller may include features for integrated asset modeling e.g. using Avocet modules for optimization of gas lift marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . A controller may include adaptive algorithms that interpret well data a supervisory decision making engine well characterization features e.g. via standardized or other processes check features to check on limits e.g. based on learning etc.

To understand better how well control fits into an overall strategy examples of processes are described below as applied to basins and for example production from one or more reservoirs in a basin.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators ESPs etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment e.g. an ESP which may include equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As to the management components of these may include a seismic data component an information component a pre simulation processing component a simulation component an attribute component a post simulation processing component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component optionally with pre simulation processing via the processing component and optionally with post simulation processing via the processing component .

According to an embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may be earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities may include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may be based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

According to an embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may be based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may be a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition to the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . According to an embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component . Further dotted lines indicate possible feedback within the management components . For example feedback may occur between the analysis visualization component and either one of the processing components and .

According to an embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

According to an embodiment the management components may include features for geology and geological modeling to generate high resolution geological models of reservoir structure and stratigraphy e.g. classification and estimation facies modeling well correlation surface imaging structural and fault analysis well path design data analysis fracture modeling workflow editing uncertainty and optimization modeling petrophysical modeling etc. . As to reservoir engineering for a generated model one or more features may allow for simulation workflow to perform streamline simulation reduce uncertainty and assist in future well planning e.g. uncertainty analysis and optimization workflow well path design advanced gridding and upscaling history match analysis etc. . The management components may include features for drilling workflows including well path design drilling visualization and real time model updates e.g. via real time data links .

According to an embodiment various aspects of the management components may be add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. According to an embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for all application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

The PETREL framework can integrate multidisciplinary workflows surrounding ECLIPSE simulation modules for example to provide transparent data flows and an intuitive graphical user interface. Modules may include the ECLIPSE blackoil simulation module for three phase 3D reservoir simulation with extensive well controls field operations planning and comprehensive enhanced oil recovery EOR schemes the ECLIPSE compositional simulation module for reservoir fluid phase behavior and compositional changes when modeling multicomponent hydrocarbon flow the ECLIPSE FrontSim simulation module for modeling multiphase fluid flow along streamlines supporting both geological model screening and pattern flood management the ECLIPSE thermal simulation module for support of a wide range of thermal recovery processes including steam assisted gravity drainage cyclic steam operations toe to heel air injection and cold heavy oil production with sand and one or more other modules such as a coalbed methane module an advanced well module etc. As described herein an ESP controller may optionally provide for access to one or more frameworks e.g. PETREL ECLIPSE PIPESIM etc. .

In the example of as indicated the management components may receive information see e.g. the feedback from the geologic environment . As an example the downhole equipment may include an ESP outfitted with one or more sensors that transmit data as for example the other information . In turn one or more of the management components may process the data to provide instructions to the geologic environment for example to adjust one or more operational parameters that may impact operation of the downhole equipment e.g. an ESP . As shown in transmission of information may occur via one or more networks. Further information from other geologic environments other downhole equipment etc. may be transmitted to one or more of the management components .

In the example of the equipment may be steam assisted gravity drainage SAGD equipment for injecting steam and extracting resources from a reservoir . For example a SAGD operation can include a steam injection well and a resource production well . In the example of a downhole steam generator generates steam in the injection well for example based on supplies of water and fuel from surface conduits and artificial lift equipment e.g. ESP etc. may be implemented to facilitate resource production. While a downhole steam generator is shown steam may be alternatively or additionally generated at the surface level. As illustrated in a cross sectional view the steam rises in the subterranean portion. As the steam rises it transfers heat to a desirable resource such as heavy oil. As the resource is heated its viscosity decreases allowing it to flow more readily to the resource production well .

As illustrated in the example of SAGD is a technique that involves subterranean delivery of steam to enhance flow of heavy oil bitumen etc. SAGD can be applied for Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR which is also known as tertiary recovery because it changes properties of oil in situ.

With respect to extraction SAGD may result in condensed steam from an upper well may accompany oil to a lower well which can impact artificial lift e.g. ESP operations and increase demands on separation processing where it is desirable to separate one or more components from the oil and water mixture.

As to the downhole steam generator it may be fed by three separate streams of natural gas air and water where a gas air mixture is combined first to create a flame and then the water is injected downstream to create steam. In such an example the water can also serve to cool a burner wall or walls e.g. by flowing in a passageway or passageways within a wall .

The example of demonstrates how operation of a steam generator or more generally steam injection may impact operation of downhole equipment such as an ESP. Referring to the example of the management components may receive information see e.g. the feedback from the geologic environment similarly the management components may apply to the geologic environment of for example where the equipment the equipment or both may transmit data as for example the other information . In turn one or more of the management components may process the data to provide instructions to the environment for example to adjust one or more operational parameters that may impact operation of the equipment the equipment e.g. an ESP or other equipment. As shown in transmission of information may occur via one or more networks. Further information from other geologic environments other downhole equipment etc. may be transmitted to one or more of the management components .

The well includes a wellhead that can include a choke e.g. a choke valve . For example the well can include a choke valve to control various operations such as to reduce pressure of a fluid from high pressure in a closed wellbore to atmospheric pressure. Adjustable choke valves can include valves constructed to resist wear due to high velocity solids laden fluid flowing by restricting or sealing elements. A wellhead may include one or more sensors such as a temperature sensor a pressure sensor a solids sensor etc.

The ESP includes cables a pump gas handling features a pump intake a motor and one or more sensors e.g. temperature pressure current leakage vibration etc. . The well may include one or more well sensors for example such as the commercially available OpticLine sensors or WellWatcher BriteBlue sensors marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . Such sensors are fiber optic based and can provide for real time sensing of temperature for example in SAGD or other operations. As shown in the example of a well can include a relatively horizontal portion. Such a portion may collect heated heavy oil responsive to steam injection. Measurements of temperature along the length of the well can provide for feedback for example to understand conditions downhole of an ESP. Well sensors may extend thousands of feet into a well e.g. 4 000 feet or more and beyond a position of an ESP.

The controller can include one or more interfaces for example for receipt transmission or receipt and transmission of information with the motor controller a VSD unit the power supply e.g. a gas fueled turbine generator a power company etc. the network equipment in the well equipment in another well etc.

As shown in the controller can include or provide access to one or more modules or frameworks. Further the controller may include features of an ESP motor controller and optionally supplant the ESP motor controller . For example the controller may include the UniConn motor controller marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In the example of the controller may access one or more of the PIPESIM framework the ECLIPSE framework and the PETREL framework .

In the example of the motor controller may be a commercially available motor controller such as the UniConn motor controller. The UniConn motor controller can connect to a SCADA system the espWatcher surveillance system etc. The UniConn motor controller can perform some control and data acquisition tasks for ESPs surface pumps or other monitored wells. The UniConn motor controller can interface with the Phoenix monitoring system for example to access pressure temperature and vibration data and various protection parameters as well as to provide direct current power to downhole sensors. The UniConn motor controller can interface with fixed speed drive FSD controllers or a VSD unit for example such as the VSD unit .

For FSD controllers the UniConn motor controller can monitor ESP system three phase currents three phase surface voltage supply voltage and frequency ESP spinning frequency and leg ground power factor and motor load.

For VSD units the UniConn motor controller can monitor VSD output current ESP running current VSD output voltage supply voltage VSD input and VSD output power VSD output frequency drive loading motor load three phase ESP running current three phase VSD input or output voltage ESP spinning frequency and leg ground.

The UniConn motor controller can include control functionality for VSD units such as target speed minimum and maximum speed and base speed voltage divided by frequency three jump frequencies and bandwidths volts per hertz pattern and start up boost ability to start an ESP while the motor is spinning acceleration and deceleration rates including start to minimum speed and minimum to target speed to maintain constant pressure load e.g. from 0.01 Hz 10 000 s to 1 Hz s stop mode with PWM carrier frequency base speed voltage selection rocking start frequency cycle and pattern control stall protection with automatic speed reduction changing motor rotation direction without stopping speed force speed follower mode frequency control to maintain constant speed pressure or load current unbalance voltage unbalance overvoltage and undervoltage ESP backspin and leg ground.

In the example of the ESP motor controller includes various modules to handle for example backspin of an ESP sanding of an ESP flux of an ESP and gas lock of an ESP. As mentioned the motor controller may include any of a variety of features additionally alternatively etc.

In the example of the VSD unit may be a low voltage drive VSD unit a medium voltage drive MVD unit or other type of unit. For a LVD a VSD unit can include a step up transformer control circuitry and a step up transformer while for a MVD a VSD unit can include an integrated transformer and control circuitry. As an example the VSD unit may receive power with a voltage of about 4.16 kV and control a motor as a load with a voltage from about 0 V to about 4.16 kV.

The VSD unit may include commercially available control circuitry such as the SpeedStar MVD control circuitry marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry is suitable for indoor or outdoor use and comes standard with a visible fused disconnect switch precharge circuitry and sine wave output filter e.g. integral sine wave filter ISWF tailored for control and protection of high horsepower ESPs. The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry can include a plug and play sine wave output filter a multilevel PWM inverter output a 0.95 power factor programmable load reduction e.g. soft stall function speed control circuitry to maintain constant load or pressure rocking start e.g. for stuck pumps resulting from scale sand etc. a utility power receptacle an acquisition system for the Phoenix monitoring system a site communication box to support surveillance and control service a speed control potentiometer. The SpeedStar MVD control circuitry can optionally interface with the UniConn motor controller which may provide some of the foregoing functionality.

In the example of the VSD unit is shown along with a plot of a sine wave e.g. achieved via a sine wave filter that includes a capacitor and a reactor responsiveness to vibration responsiveness to temperature and as being managed to reduce mean time between failures MTBFs . The VSD unit may be rated with an ESP to provide for about 40 000 hours 5 years of operation at a temperature of about 50 C with about a 100 load. The VSD unit may include surge and lightening protection e.g. one protection circuit per phase . With respect to operational cost as an example for a 373 kW load an increase in efficiency of about 0.5 may translate into about 1 000 per year in power savings e.g. depending on cost of power . As to leg ground monitoring or water intrusion monitoring such types of monitoring can indicate whether corrosion is or has occurred. Further monitoring of power quality from a supply to a motor at a motor may occur by one or more circuits or features of a controller.

Overall system efficiency can affect power supply from the utility or generator. As described herein monitoring of ITHD VTHD PF and overall efficiency may occur e.g. surface measurements . Such surface measurements may be analyzed in separately or optionally in conjunction with a pump curve. VSD unit related surface readings e.g. at an input to a VSD unit can optionally be input to an economics model. For example the higher the PF and therefore efficiency e.g. by running an ESP at a higher frequency and at close to 100 load the less harmonics current lower ITHD sensed by the power supply. In such an example well operations can experience less loses and thereby lower energy costs for the same load.

While the example of shows an ESP with centrifugal pump stages another type of ESP may be controlled. For example an ESP may include a hydraulic diaphragm electric submersible pump HDESP which is a positive displacement double acting diaphragm pump with a downhole motor. HDESPs find use in low liquid rate coalbed methane and other oil and gas shallow wells that require artificial lift to remove water from the wellbore. A HDESP can be set above or below the perforations and run in wells that are for example less than about 2 500 ft deep and that produce less than about 200 barrels per day. HDESPs may handle a wide variety of fluids and for example up to about 2 sand coal fines and HS CO.

The economic and other data can include real time market data weather data geological data e.g. earthquake data political data etc. For example market data for price per barrel of oil gas etc. may be provided optionally including futures data or future prediction data. As to weather data for example a sea operation may be impacted by tropical storm hurricane or other conditions. As to geological data earthquake data may provide for tsunami warnings pipeline disruption reduced demand due to infrastructure disruption etc. As to political data data as to conflicts regions impacted transportation routes impacted price impacts etc. may be provided.

The modeling components can include for example one or more of the management components of or other components. The basin may include a basin such as the geologic environment of or the geologic environment of . As to the basin with EOR an EOR operation may include SAGD or other EOR technology.

The production control framework can include various modules such as a module for modeling gas modules for modeling solids and and a control strategies module or modules which may include one or more learning algorithms which may allow for closed loop control. As an example the control strategies may respond to receipt of data via the interface by updating one or more of the modules for modeling. In such an approach the modules are subject to feedback in a closed loop manner.

As to learning algorithms a learning algorithm may be for example one or more of a supervised learning algorithm that generates a function that maps inputs to desired outputs also called labels because they are often provided by human experts labeling the training examples an unsupervised learning algorithm that models a set of inputs like clustering e.g. data mining and knowledge discovery a semi supervised learning algorithm that combines both labeled and unlabeled examples to generate an appropriate function or classifier a reinforcement learning algorithm that learns how to act given an observation of phenomena of an environment e.g. whether naturally occurring responsive to intervention etc. where actions have an impact in the environment and the environment provides feedback in the form of rewards that guides the algorithm a transduction algorithm that tries to predict new outputs based on training inputs training outputs and test inputs and a learning algorithm that aims to learn its own inductive bias based on previous experience.

Some examples of supervised learning algorithms include AODE artificial neural network e.g. backpropagation Bayesian statistics e.g. naive Bayes classifier Bayesian network Bayesian knowledge base case based reasoning decision trees inductive logic programming Gaussian process regression group method of data handling GMDH learning automata learning vector quantization minimum message length e.g. decision trees decision graphs etc. lazy learning instance based learning e.g. nearest neighbor algorithm and analogical modeling probably approximately correct learning PAC learning ripple down rules e.g. knowledge acquisition methodology symbolic machine learning subsymbolic machine learning support vector machines random forests ensembles of classifiers e.g. bootstrap aggregating and boosting ordinal classification regression analysis and information fuzzy networks IFN .

Some examples of statistical classification include AODE linear classifiers e.g. Fisher s linear discriminant logistic regression naive Bayes classifier perceptron and support vector machines quadratic classifiers k nearest neighbor boosting and decision trees e.g. C4.5 random forests Bayesian networks and Hidden Markov models .

Some examples of unsupervised learning include artificial neural network data clustering expectation maximization algorithm self organizing map radial basis function network vector quantization generative topographic map information bottleneck method and IBSEAD.

Some examples of association rule learning include apriori algorithm Eclat algorithm and FP growth algorithm. Some examples of hierarchical clustering include single linkage clustering and conceptual clustering. Some examples of partitional clustering include K means algorithm and fuzzy clustering. Some examples of reinforcement learning include temporal difference learning Q learning and learning automata.

As to the production control framework control actions can include actions for motor control e.g. vibration grounding motor efficiency etc. for gas breakthrough for solids such as sand and for dynamic solids that may form and be reversible or irreversible and possibly subject to one or more treatment techniques. The framework may include features to account for interactions for example between gas breakthrough and solids e.g. where a change in motor speed to address intake pressure to an ESP alters entrainment of sand deposition of sand in a well location of a suspended sand zone etc. .

The production control framework can include features to provide flow rate or production estimates for example based on measured data e.g. temperature pump curves downhole gauges other downhole measurements etc. and optionally modeling algorithms e.g. one or more learning algorithms .

In an example embodiment a system see e.g. the system can include an interface see e.g. the interface to receive sensed data and economic data a production control framework see e.g. the framework that includes a module for modeling motor efficiency of an electric submersible pump see e.g. the module a module for modeling gas composition of a fluid being pumped by an electric submersible pump see e.g. the module and a module for modeling solid dynamics in a fluid being pumped by an electric submersible pump see e.g. the modules and and a module to update one or more of the modules for modeling in response to receipt of data via the interface and an interface see e.g. the interface to output control commands to a controller for an electric submersible pump based at least in part on data received by the interface and analyzed by the production control framework.

The information layer can include various information modules for acquiring and optionally processing information for example for use by the ESP layer and the learning layer .

In the example of the ESP layer includes one or more ESP controllers that can operate according to one or more control algorithms such as the learning algorithms described with respect to the system of a proportional control algorithm a proportional and integral control algorithm a proportional integral and derivative control algorithm a proportional and derivative control algorithm an integral and derivative control algorithm one or more neural network algorithms one or more other algorithms and optionally information from one or more simulation frameworks. As an example an ESP controller of the ESP layer can operate according to a simulation framework in the information layer .

In the example of the information layer can include a simulation framework such as the commercially available PIPESIM framework which includes a steady state multiphase flow simulator for the design and diagnostic analysis of oil and gas production systems. The PIPESIM framework includes tools to model multiphase flow for example along a well e.g. from a reservoir to a wellhead . The PIPESIM framework includes modeling algorithms for nodal analysis PVT analysis gas lift and erosion and corrosion modeling which can assist with optimization of production and injection operations. In the example of the production control framework can optionally include receive input from or interact with a simulation framework such as the PIPESIM framework. As shown in the controller may include or provide access to the PIPESIM framework. As an example with respect to the system of the information layer allows an ESP controller of the ESP layer to access the PIPESIM framework.

As shown in the example of an ESP controller of the ESP layer can receive information from one or more ESP sensors e.g. vibration temperature pressure etc. from one or more production tubing sensors e.g. vibration temperature solids etc. and from one or more wellhead sensors e.g. temperature pressure solids etc. . As mentioned an ESP controller can also receive input from or interact with one or more control algorithms e.g. as in the production control framework of . In turn an ESP controller can control one or more ESPs in a field e.g. a geologic environment for production control or other control. Such control can optionally include manifold control for example where one or more ESPs pump into a manifold e.g. a header . As mentioned the controller of may act as an ESP controller and supplant the ESP motor controller . As an example the controller of may interface with the ESP motor controller to access features thereof to effectuate ESP control.

In the ESP layer of various outputs are shown with respect to an ESP controller or controllers. For example output may be directed to one or more SAGD operations e.g. for steam quality steam generation steam injection etc. to one or more chemical injection operations e.g. for an asphaltene treatment or other treatment to one or more water injection operations and to one or more wellhead operations e.g. for choke production etc. .

In the learning layer some example issues are shown along with issue specifics and equipment factors. As to gas locking equipment factors can include an ability or rating of a piece of equipment to handle gas at an inlet to an ESP. For example a commercially available Poseidon multiphase gas handling system Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. may be rated to handle a certain fraction or percentage of free gas e.g. Y by breaking up large bubbles into smaller bubbles having less impact on operation of centrifugal pump stages of an ESP while another commercially available AGH advanced gas handling device Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. may be rated to handle a different fraction or percentage of free gas e.g. X by reducing vapor bubble sizes and changing gas bubble distribution via homogenization such that a multiphase fluid behaves more like a single phase fluid. As to issue specifics one or more models may receive as input information acquired via one or more sensors to provide for example bubblepoint values gassiness values steam values etc. Given such values and equipment specifics an ESP controller may issue one or more instructions e.g. commands to an ESP or other equipment see e.g. the ESP layer to reduce risk of gas locking.

As to solids equipment can include one or more injectors one or more filters etc. As mentioned solids may be earthen solids such as sand or solids that form due to phase temperature pressure chemical reactions etc. which may form reversibly or irreversibly e.g. under well conditions . As shown solids can include asphaltenes sand scale waxes etc.

As to sand entrainment of sand may occur where the sand enters an ESP which may damage one or more components. Further sand may alter behavior of a pump which may be exhibited by examining one or more power characteristics vibration etc. For sand a modeling framework may include a mechanical earth model that can identify locations of weak rocks that may readily give rise to sand in response to well completion operations as well as a reservoir model that describes field depletion or pressure maintenance responses. Sand predictions may be provided via one or more modeling frameworks in the form of sand production tendencies at various stresses flow rates perforations well orientation etc. To handle sand one or more exclusion techniques may be employed e.g. gravel pack high rate water pack frac and pack openhole gravel pack expandable screens etc. . Operation of an ESP may rely on one or more characteristics of an exclusion technique sand modeling etc. For example a maximum sand free drawndown may be determined using modeling and received by a production control framework to manage production for example by control of one or more ESPs e.g. to maintain an optimum or at least a minimum production requirement .

As to asphaltenes such solids can clog wells flowlines surface facilities and subsurface formations. Operation of one or more ESPs can impact asphaltene dynamics e.g. formation dissolution etc. as well as effectiveness of one or more treatment techniques e.g. chemical injection steam injection etc. . Changes in pressure temperature composition and shear rate can cause asphaltene formation and deposition. Such changes may be induced by any of a variety of operations including primary depletion injection of natural gas or carbon dioxide acidizing treatments and commingled production of incompatible fluids. An envelope may describe asphaltene behavior for example in the form of a pressure versus temperature plot with vapor liquid equilibrium e.g. bubblepoint where an upper envelope line and a lower envelope line define a region where liquid and asphaltenes and liquid vapor and asphaltenes exist.

In some circumstances asphaltene formation may be avoided by maintaining a high temperature. However as fluid is moved from a reservoir to a wellhead temperature and pressure change. As temperature of a fluid depends on heat transfer dynamics operation of an ESP can impact temperature. To determine how increasing speed or decreasing speed of an ESP will impact asphaltene formation a controller may include an envelope for use upon receipt of temperature information pressure information temperature and pressure information solids information etc. Where asphaltene formation is observed or predicted an adjustment algorithm may adjust ESP operation to determine whether an increase in speed or a decrease in speed helps to avoid asphaltene formation especially downhole of an ESP. An asphaltene model may account for nanoaggregate formation and formation of clusters of nanoaggregates for example to avoid formation of a viscoelastic network of asphaltenes or promote formation of floccules e.g. a destabilized asphaltene suspension . Accordingly where asphaltene formation cannot be readily avoided a control framework may act to control form of asphaltenes in a fluid.

As to scale as a solid formation of water may be a concern for example as in a steam injection operation where steam may condense and be pumped to a wellhead via an ESP. As water is a good solvent it can contain dissolved minerals as well as dissolve minerals as it flows in subsurface formations. Once in a well changes in pressure temperature phase composition etc. can cause deposition of minerals as the solubility or ability to solvate minerals changes. To handle scale one or more treatments may be applied which may impact or be impacted by operation of an ESP.

The learning layer of further illustrates efficiency as being dependent on equipment factors and for example load horsepower speed temperature and grounding. As mentioned an ESP may be provided with an efficiency chart that indicates an efficiency range. Such information may be input to an ESP controller for purposes of making adjustments to one or more operations to increase or maintain an acceptable efficiency which may be based in part on an overall economic analysis that accounts for power costs and market price of a pumped resource. For example where power cost rises at a lesser rate than cost of oil an overall economic balance may indicate that operation at a suboptimal efficiency is economically feasible. Such an analysis may account for longevity of an ESP for example where suboptimal operation impacts longevity.

As to vibration issues a manufacturer of an ESP may provide a deadband a band of operational parameters to be avoided due to vibration. For example if an ESP is operated at a particular speed or the motor operated using a particular phase frequency etc. vibration may occur. Such vibration may be inherent in structure of an ESP and may depend on one or more characteristics of fluid single phase multiphase etc. being pumped. For example where free gas exists an actual deadband may deviate from a manufacturer provided deadband. Conditions such as mechanical resonance can be detrimental and lead to rapid failure of one or more components. Further conditions that give rise to electro magnetic resonance can be detrimental and lead to rapid failure of one or more components. With respect to electro magnetic resonance power line lengths impedances etc. may come into play e.g. where a standing wave sets up in a power cable . An ESP controller can include a module that detects resonance and that acts to adjust one or more parameters to alleviate resonance. As an example mechanical resonance may be detected via vibration data while electro magnetic resonance may be detected via temperature or power transmission data.

The system and the method may act to automatically optimize a motor by adjusting voltage to the motor while not changing the speed of the motor i.e. maintaining a motor at a constant speed . As shown in the example of base speed is defined as voltage divided by frequency. Thus the method may alter base speed by adjusting voltage only to achieve a minimum current e.g. current draw by a motor. In other words such a method can optimize a synchronous motor by changing the supply voltage to the motor while leaving the frequency unchanged. Monitoring of current can provide for observation of a lowest value which may yield the best efficiency point for the motor and system. Such an approach can cause the motor to run cooler and save energy costs see e.g. economics module .

As described with respect to the system and the method of electricity charges may be saved by reducing heat generate by equipment as an optimized motor will draw the lowest current possible while doing the same amount of work i.e. working at its best efficiency point . If a motor were to draw more current than needed this will cause simple heat losses in the motor windings and the cable that is feeding the motor due to the internal electrical resistance of the windings and cable. These losses translate into charges per kW hour whether paid to a power company resulting in an increased power demand on an on site generator e.g. which may increase generator maintenance costs etc. Further heating of a motor can cause premature aging of the insulating materials. Specifically when there are simple heat losses that occur in the motor the overall temperature of the motor will be higher causing premature aging of the insulation materials in the motor. When this happens the motor life can be shortened which can raise the need to replace the motor prematurely at a cost to operator of the well. This results in a loss of production and can also cause complications with the well if there is no production for extended periods of time as this presents a loss or deferment of production of the well.

Many VSD units operate at standard input voltages that range for example from about 380 V to about 4.16 kV or more. For a SpeedStar 2000 Plus VSD unit Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. or SineWave Drive SWD unit Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. rated to operate at 480 V if a VSD unit is rated for 1000 kVA this means that the unit will output 1000 kVA at 480 V. Such a relationship holds for various VSD units to some extent as many VSD units have an upper and lower limit for the input voltage that they can operate.

Various VSD units may change their base speed commonly known as the output Volts Hz ratio when running. The base speed of a VSD unit is described as the point at which the VSD unit reaches it maximum output voltage at a specified frequency. As described with respect to the example of a motor can be optimized by adjusting the voltage delivered to a motor according to load. For example if a motor is lightly loaded e.g. a 100 HP motor with a 60 HP load the power factor of the motor will not be at its best point if the voltage to the motor is at the nameplate value of the motor e.g. typically about 60 Hz . By lowering the voltage to the motor the current used will be lower causing the system efficiency to be at its best point.

Where a VSD unit has the ability to change output voltage while running with appropriate controls and programming the VSD unit has the ability to adjust its output voltage and keep its output frequency at steady while monitoring the output current. In such an approach a VSD unit can basically adjust the voltage to the motor and find the lowest current that the motor will run and thereby optimize the motor for its load.

The controller can optimize power consumption to the load of a motor optionally by staying within a specified range of the motor voltage for example if the motor is designed to run at 2 kV at 50 amps at 60 Hz then the voltage range may be specified as about 20 of the 2 kV e.g. 1.6 kV to 2.4 kV . Such ranges or specifications can differ depending on motor characteristics and may be for example tailored to a lower or higher value.

As shown in the example of optimization could be performed every time a speed change is made to the motor or where motor temperature changes as both of these have a bearing on the amount of energy that a motor will consume. As to motor temperature one or more sensors may provide for such information.

As mentioned fluid flow can alter heat transfer especially for a motor and thereby alter steady state operating temperature. Accordingly a method can include adjusting voltage while maintaining a constant frequency to achieve a minimum current at a steady state temperature e.g. a temperature that varies within a set range over a period of time such as hours or days . Where a change in speed occurs a temperature algorithm may be implemented where the temperature algorithm may determine whether temperature changes occur due to load or due to cooling of a motor by a fluid.

The controller of may be an ESP controller of the ESP layer of the system of . As indicated in the learning layer of the example of efficiency issues may arise for any of a variety of reasons and as described with respect to efficiency may be optimized for an ESP. An ESP controller may include features to address both efficiency issues and efficiency optimization. Further an ESP controller may integrate such features with one or more other features for example to control issues such as gas locking solids or vibration. An ESP controller may include features to handle power factors predict harmonics etc. Inputs to such a controller can include direct surface controller measurements PF ITHD VTHD or other indirect variables e.g. pressure temperature etc.

The method includes a monitor block for monitoring gas in a fluid being pumped by an ESP a decision block for deciding whether gas has exceeded a gas limit e.g. according to a gas handling component an increase speed block for increasing speed of an ESP another decision block for deciding whether gas has exceeded a gas limit e.g. according to specifications or measured operation of a gas handling component and a decrease speed block for decreasing speed of an ESP. As indicated where the decision block decides that a gas limit has been exceeded the method increases speed of an ESP motor in an effort to move gas more quickly through the ESP for example if the gas is temporary a gas zone . Upon an increase in speed the decision block determines whether gas still exceeds a gas limit. Where gas no longer exceeds the gas limit the method calls for decreasing speed of the ESP motor for example to return the ESP to a predetermined or pre existing production rate.

Gas breakthrough may be defined by a low pressure zone in an impeller that gets filled up with gas to a point where the pump loses head i.e. ability to push liquid to surface . An ESP controller may include features to determine limits of gas production optionally with or without a gas handling unit or units. For example the method may include changing one or more gas limits as an exploratory or learning stage to determine how changes in speed e.g. increases decreases or increases and decreases may impact gas and handling of gas. Such an approach may arrive at a combination of limits and speeds to handle gas which may characterize a particular ESP in a particular well operation.

The method of may include monitoring of temperature and pressure and optionally include implementation of a simulation framework see e.g. model block . For example the PIPESIM framework may be implemented to determine phase composition and risk of increase in free gas downhole of an inlet to an ESP. Further the method may include adjusting speed and measuring temperature and pressure such that an impact of a speed adjustment may provide for a prediction as to a change in phase composition of a fluid being pumped by an ESP.

In the example of the method may include accessing equations of state EOS or black oil correlations to assess phase composition and to predict bubblepoint for fluids containing dissolved gas. Bubblepoint refers to the pressure and temperature conditions at which the first bubble of gas comes out of solution. For oil and gas reservoirs at time of discovery oil can include dissolved natural gas and may be fully saturated with natural gas i.e. at its bubblepoint . Where oil is undersaturated as pressure is lowered e.g. at a constant temperature the pressure at which the first gas begins to evolve from the oil is defined as the bubblepoint. As an example where free gas e.g. bubbles does not exist at an inlet to an ESP a method may operate the ESP to decrease pressure while monitoring for presence of free gas. In such an example the ESP may determine the bubblepoint for the fluid being pumped at that particular time and optionally include such information in a production analysis to arrive at an optimum flow rate for the fluid which may be below at or above the bubblepoint. A sensitivity analysis on the operating parameters may determine the best course of action should an increase or a decrease in gas be detected or for example should a change in temperature pressure etc. be detected. As to a best course of action such action may account for economic factors e.g. production rate power costs motor lifetime etc. . The aforementioned PIPESIM framework includes capabilities to perform a sensitivity analysis in a system that can include multiphase flow and includes a database of ESP manufacturer pump performance curves motors and cables. Further the PIPESIM framework allows for updating pump performance curves based on actual pump performance information.

In the example of the method may include solids monitoring where for example solids monitoring indicates whether an increase or a decrease in speed causes or increases risk of a solids issue e.g. sand asphaltenes waxes scale etc. . For example a decrease in speed of an ESP motor may cause aggregation of asphaltenes and an increase in speed of an ESP motor may cause entrainment of sand. Such information gleaned from a gas control method may be used by a learning algorithm of a production control framework such as the framework of .

In the example of the model block can include the aforementioned PIPESIM framework which includes capabilities to perform heat transfer calculations COcorrosion rate calculations erosional velocity limits calculations and single phase wax deposition calculations for flowlines e.g. with dbrSOLIDS software marketed by Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . In the example of the model block can receive information from various equipment e.g. measurements control commands etc. and optionally update one or more models or model parameters using such information. For example the model block can include updating one or more pump performance curves of the PPC block based at least in part on information received e.g. measurements control commands etc. . As explained a PPC may be a plot of lift versus capacity along with horsepower and efficiency for example for a stated specific gravity mass of a unit of volume with respect to a reference substance or American Petroleum Institute gravity . On the American Petroleum Institute scale for gravity 141.5 specific gravity 131.5 water has a gravity of 10 degrees while heavy oil may have a gravity from about 10 degrees to about 20 degrees and ultra heavy oils may have a gravity from about 0 degrees to about 10 degrees. As free gas bubblepoint specific gravity or gravity etc. may be determined by the method such information can be beneficial to update one or more PPCs e.g. the PPC block . Further calculations for production in barrels or other volumetric measures may include specific gravity or gravity .

As an example the production control framework of can include one or more modules for performing the method of . Performance of the method may provide meaningful data for production control for example by providing information as to specific gravity or gravity motor efficiency etc. Given such input the production control framework can perform an economic analysis that aims to optimize overall economics e.g. ESP lifetime ESP power costs production rate etc. .

In the system once entrained sand may be present in one or more of the regions A B and C. Operating strategies may depend on where sand is present as well as other factors e.g. economics etc. . While the example system of is shown as being oriented vertically such a well may include legs curves etc. see e.g. the example of .

The method includes a model block for modeling sand risk a performance block for performing operations a monitor block for monitoring operations a decision block for deciding whether sand is being produced or present in an ESP and an adjustment block to adjust operations based at least in part on the detection of sand.

In the example of the model block may include an earth model a reservoir model a well model or other model. Such a model may indicate areas of weak rock that may be subject to stress that causes the rock to degrade into sand. Such a model may indicate existing areas of sediment e.g. sand in a subsurface formation. A well model may indicate that an intake is located at or near a region where sand entrainment may occur. Such information may be taken into account when determining production goals or more generally operations germane to a well a reservoir a basin etc.

In the example of the performance block includes performance of one or more ESP operations and optionally one or more other types of operations see e.g. various types of operations of . As to the monitor block information may be monitored from one or more sources e.g. sensors of the system or other sources . For example an acoustic wave or pressure wave monitor e.g. seismic monitor may indicate that a portion of a subsurface formation has collapsed which may give rise to sand or an increased risk of sand being entrained and pumped by an ESP. The monitor block may include fiber optic monitoring where for example fiber optic information acquired by one or more fiber optic cables disposed in a well indicate that a substance such as sand is depositing along a length of a pipeline e.g. a horizontal section etc. . For example where a portion of a fiber optic becomes covered in sand the heat transfer characteristics may alter one or more time constants as to sensing e.g. where a change in fluid temperature does not immediately give rise to a change in fiber optic temperature or where buffering appears as more slowly changes in temperature . As another example monitoring may occur at a wellhead or at a processing station that receives fluid from a wellhead. Such monitoring may include a device that decreases e.g. settling chamber or increases e.g. cyclone fluid velocity to uncover presence of sand or other solids.

As to the decision block a sand detection limit may be used optionally for a particular location or locations in a well at a wellhead etc. The method may include multiple decision blocks each block for a particular location with a particular detection limit optionally based on one or more monitoring techniques etc. In the example of the decision block may optionally provide feedback to the model block for example to update a model based on actual sand information.

As to the adjustment block one or more operational parameters may be adjusted. For example an ESP motor may be adjusted in an effort to remove sand adjust a sand zone entrain less sand create a sand free zone around an inlet to a well etc.

The method can optionally be implemented for production operations from unconsolidated formations e.g. without sand control for production operations where an ESP may become stuck or otherwise impacted by sand for production operations that include establishing flow assurance. For unconsolidated formations an operation can include drawing the well down slowly cleaning up the well e.g. to produce loose sand to surface determining minimum flow rate to prevent from plugging up which can optionally account for conditions as to vertical wells versus deviated wells e.g. wells with one or more horizontal portions .

In the example of the plot includes a drawdown pressure boundary for a maximum flow rate as well as a sand limit. The plot can provide an estimate of risk of formation or completion damage for example in relationship to ESP speed whether for production rate or for entrainment or other types of sand flow. In the method the adjustment block may adjust operations based at least in part on information in the plot . Further information of the plot may be updated or revised based at least in part on information gleaned during performance of the method . For example where the decision block makes a decision the decision information associated with the decision etc. may be communicated to a module that acts to update or revise one or more boundaries of the plot . As mentioned a geomechanical model may provide information germane to risk of formation or completion damage which may give rise to sand issues. The method may provide information to such a model e.g. per the model block to manage or generate information germane to operation of an ESP e.g. per the plot .

The method can include operational adjustments e.g. per the adjustment block for handling an extreme case of solids production where an ESP may become locked subject to risk of damage etc. The method may include learning for sandy operating conditions to build a model that can optionally be applied to other ESP installations.

The method may optionally include drawing down a well using an ESP detecting production of sand operating the ESP to determine characteristics of the production of sand and then selecting a strategy to handle further drawing down of the well to mitigate impact of sand.

As to monitoring of sand the monitor block can include receiving information from one or more downhole vibration sensors a sand detector at a wellhead or a combination thereof. Given such information the method may include determining whether an accumulation of sand is occurring in production tubing and whether such sand is above an ESP see e.g. region C of the system and at a risk of descending down into the ESP. As to options the method may include operating an ESP to maintain a minimum flow rate to keep sand out of pump and optionally to remove sand at a wellhead e.g. in an effort to clean out a pipeline . Such an approach may include modeling sections of a pipeline to include orientation of the pipeline with respect to gravity which can impact settling flow etc. of sand. An approach can include operating an ESP to deposit sand at a particular portion of a pipeline for example along one side of a horizontal section of a pipeline.

An example of a method that includes learning can include sensing at two or more locations with respect to a well. For example such a method can include sensing downhole and sensing at the surface and determining whether sand is accumulating in a pipeline. In such an example the sensing downhole may provide a sand rate e.g. an intake sand rate dS dt and the sensing at the surface may provide another sand rate e.g. a surface sand rate dS dt . A method can include determining a difference between these two rates to estimate an accumulation rate. Based on the estimated accumulation rate the method can include adjusting speed of an ESP to diminish the difference such that less sand accumulates in the pipeline. Further while adjusting speed of an ESP sensing may continue e.g. downhole and at the surface to determine whether one or more sand rates change. For example an increase in speed of an ESP may entrain more sand at an intake and act to clear accumulated sand via a wellhead. Sensing may occur over a period of time to determine whether a steady state is reached such that accumulation is avoided or whether the rate of sand entering an intake exceeds the rate of sand exiting via a wellhead such that accumulation continues e.g. but with differing dynamics than for a prior ESP speed .

With respect to altering a speed of an ESP a method can include one or more other factors such as efficiency cooling gas production formation of solids such as wax or asphaltenes etc.

As an example the production control framework of can include one or more modules for performing the method of . Performance of the method may provide meaningful data for production control for example by providing information as to specific gravity or gravity motor efficiency etc. Given such input the production control framework can perform an economic analysis that aims to optimize overall economics e.g. ESP lifetime ESP power costs production rate etc. .

As to the phase model this may be a hydrocarbon phase envelope model for a retrograde condensate where between the bubblepoint and dewpoint curves hydrocarbon fluids are in two phases. In a hydrocarbon phase envelope lines of constant liquid mole fraction meet at the critical point open circle . Fluids that enter the two phase region to the right of the critical point are termed retrograde condensates and fluids at temperatures greater than the cricondentherm closed circle highest temperature point on the curve remain single phase at all pressures. If an initial reservoir condition of temperature and pressure is above the phase envelope and between the critical temperature and the cricondentherm the fluid goes through a dewpoint and liquid drops out of the gas phase as the reservoir pressure declines see e.g. a vertical line that starts at an initial reservoir condition and decreases across the curve .

In the example of the method includes a monitor block for monitoring one or more sensors for gas monitoring one or more sensors for sand and monitoring one or more sensors for a motor . Information acquired via such monitoring may be transmitted to the one or more models . Based on the monitoring of the monitor block a decision block can decide whether an adjustment should be made to an ESP. As indicated the decision block may make a decision based on at least some of the monitored information and optionally one or more of the one or more models . For example if the monitoring of the motor indicates that a motor temperature has increased the decision block may consult the phase model and the motor model to determine if ESP speed can be increased to increase cooling of the motor while maintaining a pressure above a bubblepoint pressure to thereby avoid emergence of gas. As the increase in ESP speed may increase production rate the decision block may also decide whether efficiency will increase or decrease and use an economic model that provides an economic analysis that accounts for motor life power costs and production rate. In such an example the decision block may increase motor speed to cool the motor and thereby increase motor life if i an associated increase in production rate cooler running of the motor etc. result in an increase in motor efficiency e.g. decrease in power consumption while ii the increase in motor speed does not lead to generation of gas and accumulation of sand. Given the models such as the models and items i and ii may be predicted. Further where the method enters an adjustment block to adjust ESP speed monitoring of the monitor block may indicate whether the predicted outcome was correct.

In instances where a predicted outcome is incorrect the method may revert back to a prior state of operation e.g. prior to the adjustment and provide information acquired via monitoring to one or more of the models for purposes of model update or model revision. In turn the decision block may reassess its decision and if appropriate proceed to the adjustment block to adjust ESP speed.

In the example of the method includes a reception block for receiving economic data a sensing block for sensing data associated with operation of a well a modeling block for modeling based at least in part on the sensing data an electric submersible pump disposed in the well gas composition of fluid being pumped by the electric submersible pump and solid dynamics in a fluid being pumped by the electric submersible pump and an adjustment block for adjusting based on the modeling and the economic data a speed of the electric submersible pump.

While a reception block and a sensing block are shown in the example method of an access block for accessing data may be provided e.g. where data is available from a data store a network sensing or other equipment etc. . Sensing of data or reception or access to sensed data may occur based at least in part on a model. For example if evolution of an operation begins to approach an undesirable domain e.g. per the plots or or more generally model s data sensing reception access etc. may occur more frequently and monitoring e.g. per the monitor block may optionally occur more frequently. Such frequency or frequencies may optionally be determined with respect to underlying physical dynamics control dynamics etc. to ensure that a situation can be controlled for example to avoid undesirable consequences e.g. emergence of gas entrainment of sand precipitation of solids overheating of a motor resonance frequency of equipment etc. .

In the example of various blocks and are also shown which may be computer readable media blocks for computer readable media that includes instructions to instruct a computing device system etc. to perform one or more actions of the method . As an example one or more computer readable media can include processor executable instruction to instruct a computing device to access data that includes economic data e.g. block and block where such data may be accessed from a storage a device etc. model an electric submersible pump disposed in the well gas composition of fluid being pumped by the electric submersible pump and solid dynamics in a fluid being pumped by the electric submersible pump e.g. block and output one or more control commands to a controller to control a motor of the electric submersible pump e.g. block .

With respect to the method an adjustment may include adjusting voltage of a motor of the electric submersible pump while maintaining a constant frequency and searching for a minimum current draw e.g. for operating the motor at a voltage that corresponds to the minimum current draw .

As to the economic data such data may be relied on to perform an economic analysis that accounts for longevity of the electric submersible pump power consumption of the electric submersible pump and production rate and market price of processed fluid pumped by the electric submersible pump.

While various examples refer to control of a pump control may occur additionally or alternatively for injection equipment for example such that a process or system outputs one or more control commands to a controller to control injection of a substance to enhanced fluid recovery from a well.

In the plot an asphaltene precipitation envelope APE is shown for a pressure temperature space. The asphaltene precipitation envelope delimits stability zones for asphaltenes in solution. For a given example reservoir condition filled circle primary depletion causes pressure to decrease. When pressure reaches the upper asphaltene precipitation envelope also known as the asphaltene precipitation onset pressure the least soluble asphaltenes may be expected to precipitate. As pressure continues to decrease more asphaltenes may be expected to precipitate until the bubblepoint pressure is reached and gas is released from solution.

As indicated the asphaltene envelope may be traversed for example for a continued pressure decrease e.g. where enough gas has been removed the liquid phase of a two phase mixture may begin to redissolve asphaltenes e.g. see the curve forming the lower portion of the asphaltene precipitation envelope .

In the plot evolution of well pressure and temperature are shown with respect to distance. As indicated well pressure is high at the reservoir R and diminishes toward the wellhead WH and separator S . Over time e.g. a period of years well pressure tends to diminish. With respect to temperature it also diminishes with respect to distance but may remain relatively stable with respect to time. Referring again to the phase envelope where temperature remains constant and pressure decreases asphaltenes may precipitate. For the well evolution plot such conditions occur with respect to time for portions of the well especially those closer to the reservoir.

To combat asphaltene precipitation chemicals may be injected into a well however such a process can be costly and time consuming. Further chemicals may be detrimental to equipment. For example some chemicals may degrade elastomers used in ESPs. Thus where chemical injection occurs to combat asphaltenes economic consequences as to an ESP e.g. lifetime may be taken into account.

In the method a monitor block monitors conditions associated with a well. In a decision block a decision is made as to whether an ESP speed should be adjusted if not the method continues at the monitor block . If the decision block decides that an adjustment should be made to ESP speed the method continues at another decision block that decides whether the prescribed adjustment may result in asphaltene precipitation. For example information of the phase envelope may be provided as a model data or plot see e.g. the model s and consulted to decide whether a change in ESP speed would result in a change in pressure temperature or other condition that may give rise to precipitation of asphaltenes. If the decision block decides that no asphaltenes will precipitate then the method continues at an adjustment block that adjusts speed of an ESP e.g. increase or decrease . However if the decision block decides that asphaltenes may precipitate the method can continue at the monitor block or take other action e.g. chemical injection to avoid precipitation . Where other action include chemical injection given a prospective change in ESP speed and resulting change in conditions with respect to a phase envelope the amount type and injection points for such chemicals may be controlled to minimize or optimize chemical usage which may be potentially detrimental to one or more components seals etc. of an ESP.

As mentioned the method may include accessing one or more models . In such an example a model may be provided by a commercially available software package marketed as the dbrSOLIDS fluid analysis software Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. which can predict thermodynamic precipitation point of waxes and asphaltenes based on reservoir fluid compositions information. Precipitation of wax and asphaltene is manifested primarily through changes in temperature pressure and composition. Composition affects both but temperature may be more significant for wax precipitation and pressure may be more significant for asphaltenes.

The dbrSOLIDS software wax or paraffin module includes a thermodynamic equilibrium model that predicts wax precipitation conditions. The wax module is also a complete simultaneous two and three phase vapor liquid liquid solid and vapor liquid solid model. In addition to the temperature at which wax will appear it can predict the mass of precipitated wax and other physical properties for reservoir fluids.

The dbrSOLIDS software asphaltene module includes a compositional thermodynamic model based on equations of state EOS and asphaltene molecular association and can also use a saturate aromatic resin asphaltene analysis to perform asphaltene precipitation calculations.

With respect to the well evolution plot a method can include monitoring gradients of temperature pressure or temperature and pressure with respect to distance. A change in a gradient may indicate a potential breach in a pipeline. As mentioned a wellhead can include a temperature pressure or other sensor.

Methods described herein may include associated computer readable media CRM blocks. Such blocks can include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions.

According to an embodiment one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to output information for controlling a process. For example such instructions may provide for output to sensing process an injection process drilling process an extraction process etc.

According to an embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although various methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

