---

title: Apparatuses for rotating a sensing device
abstract: An apparatus for rotating a sensing device about a pan axis and a tilt axis may include an enclosure, first and second rotatable dials configured to allow a user to adjust an angular pan orientation and an angular tilt orientation, respectively, of the sensing device. The apparatus may include outer and inner concentric shafts attached to the first dial and the second dial, respectively. The apparatus may also include a frame assembly attached to the outer shaft such that the frame assembly rotates about the pan axis as the first dial is rotated. The frame assembly may include a base configured to rotate about the tilt axis and that supports the sensing device. The frame assembly may also include a pin and gear assembly operatively coupling the base to the inner shaft such that rotation of the second dial rotates the base about the tilt axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106814&OS=09106814&RS=09106814
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Dept. of Justice
number: 09106814
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121114
---
The invention described herein was made by employees of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to apparatuses for rotating a sensing device and particularly to apparatuses for rotating a sensing device about a pan axis and a perpendicular tilt axis.

A camera for example a security camera or a surveillance camera may be housed within an enclosure. Typically if a user wishes to change the field of view of an enclosed camera or make fine adjustments to the existing field of view the user must disassemble the enclosure to gain access to the camera. Once the enclosure is disassembled the user manually re adjusts the camera orientation to change the field of view and then reassembles the enclosure. This process can be time consuming and increases the risk that the enclosure will be contaminated with an undesirable substance for example water or dirt.

Accordingly there is a need for an apparatus that allows for quick and contaminate free adjustment of a sensing device such as a camera.

In some embodiments an apparatus for rotating a sensing device about a first axis and a second axis relative to a mounting surface includes a first dial configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust a first axis angular orientation of the sensing device. The first dial is positioned on a first side of the mounting surface. The apparatus may also include a second dial configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust a second axis angular orientation of the sensing device and an outer shaft attached to the first dial. The outer shaft defines a first channel and passes through a second channel defined by the mounting surface. The apparatus may also include an inner shaft attached to the second dial. The inner shaft passes through the first channel defined by the outer shaft. The inner shaft is also concentric with the outer shaft. Further the apparatus includes a frame assembly attached to the outer shaft. The frame assembly is configured to rotate about the first axis as the first dial is rotated. The frame assembly is positioned on a second side of the mounting surface that is opposite from the first side of the mounting surface. The frame assembly includes a base configured to rotate about the second axis and configured to support the sensing device. The frame assembly also includes a pin and gear assembly configured to operatively couple the base to the inner shaft such that rotation of the second dial rotates the base about the tilt axis.

In some embodiments an apparatus for rotating a sensing device about a pan axis and a tilt axis includes an enclosure that defines a cavity for housing the sensing device. The enclosure has an exterior surface defining a first channel that extends to the cavity. The apparatus further includes a first dial configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust an angular pan orientation of the sensing device and a second dial configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust an angular tilt orientation of the sensing device. The apparatus also includes an outer shaft attached to the first dial. The outer shaft defines a second channel and passes through the first channel defined by the exterior surface of the enclosure. The outer shaft defines an axis that is coaxial with the pan axis. The apparatus also includes an inner shaft attached to the second dial. The inner shaft passes through the second channel defined by the outer shaft. The inner shaft is concentric with the outer shaft. Further the apparatus includes a frame assembly attached to the outer shaft such that the frame assembly rotates about the pan axis as the first dial is rotated. The frame assembly is positioned within the cavity and includes a base configured to rotate about the tilt axis. The base supports the sensing device. The frame assembly also includes a pin and gear assembly operatively coupling the base to the inner shaft such that rotation of the second dial rotates the base about the tilt axis.

In some embodiments an apparatus for rotating a camera about a pan axis and a tilt axis that is perpendicular to the pan axis includes an enclosure that defines an environmentally sealed cavity for housing the camera. The enclosure has an exterior surface defining a first recess. The first recess has a floor defining a first channel that extends to the environmentally sealed cavity. The apparatus also includes a first dial configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust an angular pan orientation of the camera. The first dial is seated within the first recess and defines a second recess on a first side of the first dial. The first dial defines a first annular notch on a second side of the first dial opposite from the first side of the first dial. The first dial further includes a first gasket securely seated within the first notch. The first gasket contacts the floor of the enclosure to create an environmental seal. The apparatus further includes a second dial configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust an angular tilt orientation of the camera. The second dial is seated within the second recess. The second dial defines a second annular notch on a side of the second dial that is adjacent to the first dial and further includes a second gasket securely seated within the second notch. The second gasket contacts the floor of the first dial to create an environmental seal. Further the apparatus includes an outer shaft attached to the first dial. The outer shaft defines a second channel and passes through the first channel defined by the floor of the enclosure. The outer shaft has an axis that is coaxial with the pan axis. The apparatus also includes an inner shaft attached to the second dial and passes through the second channel defined by the outer shaft. The inner shaft is concentric with the outer shaft. A worm is attached to the inner shaft and has a helical thread. The apparatus further comprises a frame assembly that is configured to rotate about the pan axis as the first dial is rotated. The frame assembly is positioned within the environmentally sealed cavity. The frame assembly includes a first plate attached to the outer shaft and first and second spaced apart arms that extend from the first plate in a direction away from the first dial. The frame assembly also includes a first pin rotatably attached to the first and second arms and a first gear having a first plurality of teeth attached to the first pin such that the first pin rotates as the first gear rotates. The first plurality of teeth meshes with the helical thread of the worm. The frame assembly further includes a second gear having a second plurality of teeth and attached to the first pin such that the second gear rotates as the first pin rotates. The frame assembly also includes third and fourth spaced apart arms that extend from the first plate in a direction away from the first dial and a second pin extending from the third arm. Additionally the frame assembly includes a third gear having a third plurality of teeth and rotatably attached to the second pin. The third plurality of teeth meshes with the second plurality of teeth of the second gear. The frame assembly further includes a third pin rotatably attached to the third and fourth arms. The third pin has an axis that is coaxial with the tilt axis. The frame assembly also includes a fourth gear having a fourth plurality of teeth and rotatably attached to the third pin such that the third pin rotates as the fourth gear rotates. Finally the frame assembly includes a base attached to the third pin such that the base rotates about the tilt axis as the third pin rotates. The base supports the camera.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

This specification discloses embodiments that incorporate the features of this invention. The disclosed embodiments merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

The embodiments described and references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments example etc. indicate that the embodiments described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is understood that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Sensing device may be any directional sensing device that acquires images video feeds or other information. For example sensing device may be an imaging device such as a camera that captures still photographs a camera that captures moving video or any other suitable image acquisition device having a field of view.

Apparatus may rotate sensing device relative to an exterior surface of an enclosure . In enclosure and exterior surface are only partially shown. Enclosure may define a cavity for housing sensing device . In some embodiments the cavity defined by enclosure may be environmentally sealed. Enclosure may have any suitable shape and size for housing sensing device . For example enclosure may have a rectangular prism shape or spherical shape. In some embodiments enclosure may also have a transparent wall not shown to allow sensing device to acquire an image outside of enclosure .

As best seen in exterior surface may define a channel that extends to the cavity defined by enclosure . In some embodiments enclosure may include a circular hollow boss that further defines channel . Boss extends from exterior surface into the cavity defined by enclosure that houses sensing device . In some embodiments channel is the only opening in the enclosure . In such embodiments in which channel is the only opening the risk that the cavity defined by enclosure is contaminated with an unwanted substance for example water or dirt is reduced.

In some embodiments as best seen in exterior surface may define a first recess that has a floor . First recess may have a circular shape as best seen in a polygonal shape a curvi linear shape or any other suitable shape. In such embodiments floor of first recess may define channel .

Apparatus may also include a first dial or knob . First dial is configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust an angular orientation of sensing device about first axis PA for example to adjust the pan orientation. First dial is positioned on a first side of enclosure that is opposite from the cavity defined by enclosure and at a location accessible to a user. As a user rotates first dial the angular orientation of sensing device about the first axis PA changes which changes the field of view of sensing device along the first axis PA.

In some embodiments first dial includes a first annular portion that includes a first plurality of projections on the side of first dial opposite from enclosure . First annular portion provides a surface for a user s fingers to contact to rotate first dial . The projections of first annular portion create a non continuous interface that helps prevent a user s fingers from slipping relative to first dial .

In some embodiments in which exterior surface defines a recess first dial is seated within first recess . This configuration creates a low profile between enclosure and first dial . First dial has a shape that allows first dial to rotate within recess . For example if recess has a circular shape first dial may have a circular shape that closely corresponds to the shape of recess .

In some embodiments as best seen in first dial may define a recess having a floor . Recess is on a side of first dial opposite from the side of first dial that is adjacent enclosure . Recess may have a circular shape a polygonal shape a curvi linear shape or any other suitable shape.

In some embodiments as best seen in first dial may define a first annular notch on the side of first dial that is adjacent enclosure . First dial may also include a gasket for example an O ring securely seated within first annular notch . First annular notch may have a dove tail cross sectional shape and gasket may have a corresponding dove tail cross sectional shape that keeps gasket securely seated within first annular notch . First annular notch and gasket may have any other suitable cross section shape. Gasket may be made from rubber a thermoplastic or any other suitable material for creating a seal at the interface between first dial and floor of enclosure . In some embodiments apparatus may be configured such that gasket contacts floor of enclosure to create an environmental seal at the interface. In some embodiments friction between first gasket and exterior surface maintains the angular first axis orientation of sensing device .

Apparatus may also include a second dial or knob . Second dial is configured to rotate to allow a user to adjust an angular orientation of sensing device about second axis TA for example to adjust an angular tilt orientation. Second dial may rotate independently from first dial . Second dial is positioned adjacent first dial and at a location accessible to a user. As a user rotates second dial the angular orientation of sensing device about the second axis TA changes which changes the field of view of sensing device along the second axis TA.

In some embodiments second dial includes a second annular portion that includes a second plurality of projections on the side of second dial opposite from first dial . Second annular portion provides a surface for a user s fingers to contact to rotate second dial . The projections of second annular portion create a non continuous interface that helps prevent a user s fingers from slipping relative to second dial .

In some embodiments in which first dial defines recess second dial is seated within recess of first dial . This configuration provides a low profile between second dial and first dial . In some embodiments second dial has a shape that allows second dial to rotate within recess . For example if recess has a circular shape second dial may have a circular shape that closely corresponds to the shape of recess .

In some embodiments second dial may define a second annular notch on the side of the second dial that is adjacent first dial . Second dial may further include a gasket for example an O ring securely seated within second annular notch . As shown in second annular notch may have a dove tail cross sectional shape and gasket may have a corresponding dove tail cross sectional shape that keeps gasket securely seated in second annular notch . In some embodiments second annular notch and second gasket may have other suitable cross sectional shapes. Gasket may be made from rubber a thermoplastic or any other suitable material for creating a seal at an interface. In some embodiments apparatus is configured such that gasket contacts floor of enclosure . This interface may create an environmental seal.

Apparatus may include an outer shaft that is attached to first dial such that outer shaft rotates along with first dial . Outer shaft can be integral with or discrete from as shown in first dial . Outer shaft may be a hollow generally cylindrical wall extending away from second dial into the cavity defined by enclosure . Outer shaft may define a second channel . Outer shaft may pass through channel defined by exterior surface of enclosure . As best seen in the axis of outer shaft is coaxial with first axis PA. If outer shaft is discrete from first dial outer shaft may be attached to first dial by any suitable attachment method for example welding adhering fastening or press or snap fitting.

Apparatus may also include an inner shaft that is attached to second dial such that inner shaft rotates along with second dial . Inner shaft can be integral with or discrete from as shown in second dial . Inner shaft may be a generally cylindrical rod that extends away from second dial into the cavity defined by enclosure . Inner shaft may pass through second channel defined by outer shaft . As best seen in the axis of inner shaft is coaxial with the axis of outer shaft and inner shaft is concentric with outer shaft . Inner shaft may rotate independent from outer shaft .

In some embodiments inner shaft defines a channel . Channel may have threads for engaging the threads of a tensioning screw not shown that couples second dial with inner shaft . In some embodiments selective adjustment of the tensioning screw can adjust the friction between first dial and enclosure and the friction between second dial and first dial . In some embodiments second dial includes a counter sink bore for receiving the head of the tensioning screw.

Apparatus may also include a worm . Worm is attached to inner shaft using suitable attachment method for example welding adhering fastening or press or snap fitting. Worm may include one or more helical threads. As best seen in worm includes one helical thread . Worm is attached to inner shaft at a position within the cavity defined by enclosure .

First dial second dial outer shaft inner shaft and worm may be made of any suitable material for example metal plastic or a composite.

Apparatus further includes a frame assembly that supports sensing device within the cavity defined by enclosure . Frame assembly may rotate about first axis PA. Frame assembly may be operatively coupled to first dial such that frame assembly as a whole rotates about first axis PA as first dial is rotated. Frame assembly may include a base that may rotate about second axis TA. Sensing device is attached to base such that sensing device rotates about second axis TA as base rotates. Frame assembly may also include a pin and gear assembly that operatively couples base to inner shaft and in turn second dial such that base and attached sensing device rotate about second axis TA as second dial is rotated.

In some embodiments frame assembly includes a first plate . First plate may be attached to outer shaft such that first plate rotates as outer shaft rotates. First plate may have any suitable shape and may extend generally perpendicular to second axis PA. First plate may be integral with or discrete from as shown in outer shaft . If discrete first plate may be attached to outer shaft using suitable attachment method for example welding adhering fastening or press or snap fitting. First plate may define an opening through which inner shaft may pass.

Frame assembly may also include first and second spaced apart arms and . First and second arms and may extend from first plate in a direction away from first dial . First and second arms and may extend generally parallel with first axis PA. First and second arms and may each define a channel not shown for rotatably receiving a pin. In some embodiments first and second arms and can be generally square with rounded distal corners as shown . In some embodiments first and second arms and may have other suitable shapes.

Frame assembly may further include third and fourth spaced apart arms and . Third and fourth arms and may extend from first plate in a direction away from first dial . Third and fourth arms and may extend in a direction generally parallel to first axis PA. Third and fourth arms and may each define a channel not shown for rotatably receiving a pin. In some embodiments as shown in third and fourth arms and may each be substantially rectangular prisms. In some embodiments third and fourth arms and may have other suitable shapes. In some embodiments third and fourth arms and extend beyond first and second arms and in a direction generally parallel to the first axis PA.

In some embodiments the channels not shown defined by third and fourth arms and are offset from the channels not shown defined by first and second arms and in a direction away from first plate . In some embodiments first and second arms and may be offset from third and fourth arms and in a direction generally in the same plane as second axis TA but perpendicular to second axis TA. For example as best seen in and first and second arms and may be generally aligned with a front edge of front plate while third and fourth arms and may be generally aligned with a back edge of front plate .

In some embodiments base is rotatably attached to third and fourth arms and as further described below and base extends between the third and fourth arms and . Base may be a generally rectangular prism that extends along a major axis that is generally parallel to the second axis TA. In some embodiments base may have other suitable shapes for supporting sensing device .

Sensing device may be coupled to base using in suitable attachment mechanism . For example as shown in attachment mechanism can be one or more fasteners. In other embodiments attachment mechanism can be adhesive snap or press fit coupling elements or any other suitable attachment mechanisms. As best seen in sensing device is attached directly to a back surface of base . In some embodiments though sensing device may be attached to base at other surfaces.

A pin and gear assembly that operatively couples base to inner shaft and in turn second dial may include a plurality of pins and a plurality of gears. One embodiment of a pin and gear assembly is further described below. The pin and gear assembly may include a first generally cylindrical pin . First pin extends between first and second arms and and first pin may be rotatably received within the channels defined by first and second arms and . An end of first pin may extend beyond first arm in a direction generally perpendicular to first axis PA.

The pin and gear assembly may also include a first gear that is fixedly attached to first pin such that first pin rotates as first gear rotates. First gear has a first plurality of teeth . First gear and first pin are arranged and configured such that first plurality of teeth meshes with helical thread of worm . Accordingly as worm rotates about first axis PA first gear and first pin rotate about an axis generally parallel to second axis TA.

The pin and gear assembly may further include a second gear having a second plurality of teeth . Second gear may be fixedly attached to first pin at the end extending beyond first arm . Accordingly second gear rotates as the first pin rotates.

The pin and gear assembly may also include a second generally cylindrical pin . Second pin extends from third arm in a direction generally parallel to the second axis TA and away from third arm . A third gear having a third plurality of teeth may be rotatably mounted to second pin such that third gear rotates about second pin . Second pin and third gear may be configured and arranged such that third plurality of teeth meshes with second plurality of teeth of second gear . Accordingly third gear rotates as second gear rotates. Third gear may be secured to second pin using a retaining washing . In some embodiments as shown in the gear ratio between third gear and second gear is about 2.5 1. In some embodiments the gear ratio between third gear and second gear is more than or less than about 2.5 1.

The pin and gear assembly may further include a third generally cylindrical pin . Third pin may extend between third and fourth arms and and third pin may be rotatably received within the channels defined by third and fourth arms and . An end of third pin may extend beyond third arm in a direction generally perpendicular to the first axis PA. The axis of third pin may be coaxial with the second axis TA.

The pin and gear assembly may further include a fourth gear having a fourth plurality of teeth . Fourth gear may be fixedly attached to third pin at the end extending beyond third arm . Accordingly third pin rotates as fourth gear rotates. In some embodiments as best seen in and the gear ratio between fourth gear and third gear is about 0.4 1. In some embodiments the gear ratio between fourth gear and third gear is more than or less than about 0.4 1.

Base may define a channel for receiving third pin and base may be fixedly attached to third pin such that the base rotates about the second axis TA as the third pin rotates. Base may be integral with or discrete from as shown in third pin . If discrete base may be attached to third pin using any suitable attachment method for example welding adhering fastening or press or snap fitting.

Although frame assembly described above with reference to includes first plate first second third and fourth arms and and base the frame assembly according to some embodiments may have other suitable support structure configurations. For example first and third arms and may be an integral piece and second and fourth arms and may be an integral piece.

In use a user positions enclosure such that first and second dials and are accessible to the user. In some embodiments enclosure may be mounted to a wall ceiling or any other desired surface. If a user desires to change the field of view of sensing device the user can selectively rotate first dial and or second dial to change the angular orientation of sensing device about first axis PA and or about second axis TA respectively. Particularly to adjust the angular orientation of sensing device about first axis PA to change the field of view in a direction along first axis PA the user rotates first dial . Rotation of first dial rotates outer shaft which is attached to first dial . As outer shaft rotates the entire frame assembly rotates about first axis PA because outer shaft is attached to first plate of frame assembly . Because sensing device is coupled to base of frame assembly the angular orientation of sensing device about the first axis PA is adjusted changing the field of view of sensing device along the first axis PA. Reversing the rotation of first dial reverses the rotation of frame assembly and sensing device about first axis PA.

To adjust the angular orientation of sensing device about the second axis TA to change the field of view in a direction along second axis TA the user rotates second dial . Rotation of second dial rotates inner shaft which is attached to second dial . As inner shaft rotates worm attached to inner shaft rotates. The interface between helical thread of worm and first plurality of teeth of first gear causes first gear to rotate about the axis defined by first pin . Because first gear is fixedly attached to first pin first pin rotates about the axis of first pin which is generally parallel to second axis TA as first gear rotates. As first pin rotates so too does second gear which is fixedly attached to first pin . The interface between second plurality of teeth of second gear and third plurality of teeth of third gear causes third gear to rotate about the axis of second pin in a direction opposite of the rotation of second gear . The interface between third plurality of teeth of third gear and fourth plurality of teeth of fourth gear causes fourth gear to rotate about the axis of third pin in a direction opposite of the rotation of third gear . Because fourth gear is fixedly attached to third pin rotation of fourth gear causes third pin to rotate. Rotation of third pin causes base to rotate about the second axis TA which is coaxial with the axis of third pin . Because sensing device is coupled to base the angular orientation of sensing device about the second axis TA is adjusted changing the field of view of sensing device along the second axis TA.

Accordingly the field of view of sensing device may be adjusted without opening enclosure because first dial and second dial are be positioned external to the cavity defined by enclosure .

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

