---

title: Optically heated analyte desorber for gas chromatography analysis
abstract: Analytes are rapidly desorbed from a carbonaceous sorbent powder with improved quantitation and reduced analyte re-adsorption, thermal degradation, and rearrangement. The sample is distributed in a thin layer onto a desorption surface within a chamber. The layer can be a monolayer. Heating light irradiates the sample through a window, directly and rapidly heating the sample while the desorbed analytes diffuse into a vacuum or are removed by a carrier gas. Finally, the sorbent is flushed from the chamber by a transport gas. The desorption surface can be an inner surface of the window, or a surface of a porous frit that divides the chamber into two sections. The frit can be stainless steel or glass. The carrier gas can be helium, argon, or carbon dioxide. The light source can be a tungsten halogen lamp. A heater can control the chamber temperature according to a heating profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08833140&OS=08833140&RS=08833140
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08833140
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Applications No. 61 508 809 filed Jul. 18 2011 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract no. HR0011 08 C 0056 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to apparatus and methods for desorption of analytes from sorbent materials for gas chromatography analysis and more particularly to heat induced desorption of analytes adsorbed on carbonaceous sorbent materials.

A common method of collecting a sample for analysis by gas chromatography is solid phase micro extraction or SPME. In this method a sorbent material is exposed to an environment containing analytes causing some of the analytes to be adsorbed onto the sorbent material. The sorbent material is then transferred to a container connected to the injection port of the gas chromatograph and heated so as to cause the adsorbed analytes to be desorbed and carried by an inert carrier gas into the gas chromatograph. Typically the sorbent material is indirectly heated by conventional thermal transfer whereby the container is directly heated and the heat is allowed to flow into the sorbent material indirectly by thermal conduction.

This indirect heating desorption process can be slow and inefficient and attempts to speed up the process by applying more heat may lead to thermal degradation and rearrangement of the analytes. Also desorption utilizing indirect thermal conduction heating can decrease the uniformity of the analyte retrieval thereby leading to inaccurate quantitative analysis especially when applied to a carbonaceous sorbent material that has poor heat conductivity and particularly for large high boiling point analytes. Frequently the sorbent material is configured in a long narrow bed to avoid breakthrough of the analytes. This geometry greatly compounds the difficulty of obtaining quantitative results.

What is needed therefore is an apparatus and method for rapid desorption of analytes from carbonaceous sorbent materials with reduced re adsorption and correspondingly improved quantitative results and with reduced thermal degradation and rearrangement of the adsorbed analytes.

A novel apparatus and method provide rapid desorption of analytes from a carbonaceous sorbent powder sample with reduced re adsorption and correspondingly improved quantitative results and with reduced thermal degradation and rearrangement of the adsorbed analytes. According to the invention the entire sorbent powder sample is simultaneously and uniformly heated in a rapid efficient manner by distributing the sample onto a desorbing surface within an enclosed chamber in a uniformly thin layer and directly irradiating the sample with a heating light source. In embodiments the thin layer is approximately one powder granule in thickness so that substantially all of the powder granules are heated simultaneously.

Because the carbonaceous sorbent is a strong black body light absorber direct adsorption of light energy from illumination of the sorbent powder causes a very rapid and intense heating of the particle skin to a depth of several microns thus eliminating the reliance on indirect thermal transfer. This intense surface heating causes a quick and efficient thermal desorption without overheating and therefore with reduced thermal degradation and reduced rearrangement of the analyte molecules before their release from the carbonaceous surface.

While the sorbent is heated by the light irradiation the desorbed analytes are transported away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph. In some embodiments a partial vacuum is created within the desorption chamber and the analytes diffuse away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph. In other embodiments the desorbed analytes are carried away by a carrier gas. After the desorption process is completed the sorbent sample is flushed from the chamber by a transport gas so that a new sample can be introduced.

In one general aspect of the present invention the sorbent is distributed onto a porous frit that divides the chamber into upper and lower sections. The sample is then irradiated with heating light that shines from above through a window in the chamber and onto the frit. In some embodiments a partial vacuum is created in the desorption chamber and the desorbed analytes diffuse away from the sample through the frit and into the gas chromatograph. In other embodiments the desorbed analytes are carried away from the sorbent by an inert carrier gas that flows through the upper section through the sample and the frit into the lower section and into the gas chromatograph thereby transporting the desorbed analytes into the gas chromatograph. In some of these embodiments the sample is carried by the transport gas into the upper section through a central pipe so that it is sprayed against the window and then settles onto the porous frit. And in certain of these embodiments after desorption of the analytes the sorbent is flushed from the upper section by the transport gas through the same central pipe.

In another general aspect of the present invention the sorbent sample is distributed directly onto a window in a lower section of the enclosed chamber. The sample is irradiated with heating light through the window from below. In some embodiments a partial vacuum is created in the desorption chamber and the desorbed analytes diffuse away from the sample and into the gas chromatograph. In other embodiments an inert carrier gas transports the desorbed analytes away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph. In embodiments a porous frit divides the lower section from an upper section of the enclosed chamber and the desorbed analytes pass through the porous frit and the upper section before entering the gas chromatograph thereby preventing any of the sorbent from being carried into the gas chromatograph together with the analytes. In some of these embodiments the sample is carried by the transport gas into the lower section through a central pipe and sprayed onto the window. And in certain of these embodiments the sorbent is flushed from the lower section by the transport gas through the same central pipe.

In embodiments of both general aspects the porous frit is either stainless steel or glass. In various embodiments the sorbent material is divided into a plurality of samples and only one sample at a time is introduced into the apparatus for desorption. In some of these embodiments the desorption and analysis is repeated using successive samples. And in various embodiments at least one of the samples is deposited into a collection vial for future analysis and or comparison.

Due to the wide spectrum of absorption that is characteristic of black body carbonaceous sorbents embodiments can use almost any source of heating light ranging in wavelength from UV to IR. In some embodiments the heating light originates from a tungsten halogen lamp.

In embodiments at least one of the carrier gas and the transport gas is helium argon carbon dioxide or nitrogen. And in various embodiments the gas chromatograph is cooperative with a cryogenic trap that includes at least two valves configured to bypass the cryogenic trap.

One general aspect of the present invention is a system for rapidly desorbing analytes from a carbonaceous sorbent powder for introduction into a gas chromatograph. The system includes a sealed desorption chamber a desorption surface within the desorption chamber onto which the sorbent powder can be deposited the sorbent powder having analytes adsorbed thereupon a transport gas system configured to transport the sorbent powder with a transport gas into the desorption chamber and to deposit the sorbent powder onto the desorption surface as a substantially uniform layer of sorbent powder granules the transport gas system being further configured to remove the sorbent powder from the desorption chamber after desorption of the analytes therefrom a heating light source located outside of the desorption chamber a window included in a wall of the deposition chamber and positioned so as to allow light from the heating light source to uniformly illuminate all of the uniform monolayer of sorbent powder absorption of the heating light by the sorbent powder causing desorption of the analytes therefrom and an analyte removal system configured to transport desorbed analytes away from the sorbent powder out of the desorption chamber and into the gas chromatograph.

In some embodiments the analyte removal system is a vacuum removal system configured to impose a partial vacuum in the desorption chamber and to allow the desorbed analytes to diffuse away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph. In other embodiments the analyte removal system is a carrier gas system configured to cause a carrier gas to flow into proximity with the sorbent powder and to carry the desorbed analytes away from the sorbent powder. In some of these embodiments the carrier gas is one of helium argon or carbon dioxide. In other of these embodiments the carrier gas system provides a carrier gas flow rate of 300 cc per minute with helium as the carrier gas. And still other of these embodiments further include a carrier gas flow adaptor configured to deliver the carrier gas and analytes to a cryogenic trap of the gas chromatograph and to vent the carrier gas after delivery of the analytes to the cryogenic trap the adaptor being further configured to short circuit a cryogenic trap pressure regulation system back onto itself and to isolate the pressure regulation system from the cryogenic trap while the analytes are being carried by the carrier gas into the cryogenic trap.

In various embodiments the transport system is configured to deposit the sorbent powder onto the desorption surface as a substantially uniform monolayer of sorbent powder granules. In some embodiments the desorption surface is an inner surface of the window.

In certain embodiments the desorption chamber includes a porous frit that divides the desorption chamber into a lower section and an upper section. In some of these embodiments the porous frit is made of either glass or steel. In other of these embodiments a surface of the porous frit is the desorption surface.

In various embodiments the desorption system includes a central pipe through which the transport gas carries the sorbent into the desorption chamber. In some of these embodiments the analyte removal system is a carrier gas system configured to cause a carrier gas to flow into proximity with the monolayer of sorbent powder and to carry the desorbed analytes away from the sorbent powder and the carrier gas system introduces the carrier gas into the desorption chamber through the central pipe. In other of these embodiments the transport gas removes the sorbent powder from the desorption chamber through the central pipe.

In certain embodiments the transport gas is one of helium argon carbon dioxide and nitrogen. In some embodiments the heating light source is a tungsten halogen lamp.

Various embodiments further include a heating system configured to heat the desorption chamber to a temperature above ambient. In some of these embodiments the heating system is configured to control a temperature of the desorption chamber according to a heating profile.

And in certain embodiments the transport gas system is configured to divide the sorbent powder into a plurality of samples and to deliver one of the samples to the desorption surface while withholding at least one of the samples from the desorption chamber.

Another general aspect of the present invention is a method for desorbing analytes from a carbonaceous sorbent powder and introducing the analytes into a gas chromatograph. The method includes causing a transport gas to deliver the carbonaceous sorbent powder with analytes adsorbed thereon onto a desorption surface within a desorption chamber the sorbent powder being distributed onto the desorption surface as a substantially uniform layer of powder granules uniformly illuminating substantially all of the sorbent granules simultaneously with a heating light delivered through a window in a wall of the desorption chamber from a light source located outside of the desorption chamber absorption of the heating light by the powder granules causing desorption of the analytes therefrom during the illumination of the sorbent powder transporting the analytes away from the sorbent powder out of the desorption chamber and into a gas chromatograph and after desorption of the analytes and transporting of the analytes causing the transport gas to remove the sorbent powder from the desorption chamber.

In embodiments transporting the analytes away from the sorbent powder out of the desorption chamber and into a gas chromatograph includes creating a partial vacuum within the desorption chamber and allowing the desorbed analytes to diffuse away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph.

In certain embodiments transporting the analytes away from the sorbent powder out of the desorption chamber and into a gas chromatograph includes causing a carrier gas to flow in proximity to the sorbent powder and thereby causing the carrier gas to carry the desorbed analytes away from the sorbent powder and into the gas chromatograph. Some of these embodiments further include isolating a GC pressure controller from a cryogenic trap while the carrier gas delivers the analytes to the cryogenic trap and directly venting the carrier gas after it has delivered the analytes to the cryogenic trap.

In various embodiments the sorbent powder is distributed onto the desorption surface as a substantially uniform monolayer of powder granules.

In certain embodiments the desorption chamber includes a porous frit that divides the desorption chamber into upper and lower sections and prevents sorbent powder from traveling together with the analytes through the frit and into the gas chromatograph. And in some of these embodiments the desorption surface is a surface of the porous frit.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

The present invention is a novel apparatus and method for providing rapid desorption of analytes from a carbonaceous sorbent powder sample with reduced re adsorption and correspondingly improved quantitative results and with reduced thermal degradation and rearrangement of the adsorbed analytes. According to the invention the entire sorbent powder sample is simultaneously and uniformly heated in a rapid efficient manner by distributing the sample onto a desorbing surface within an enclosed chamber in a uniformly thin layer and directly irradiating the sample with a heating light source. In embodiments the thin layer is approximately one powder granule in thickness so that substantially all of the powder granules are heated simultaneously.

Because the carbonaceous sorbent is a strong black body light absorber direct adsorption of light energy from illumination of the sorbent powder causes a very rapid and intense heating of the particle skin to a depth of several microns thus eliminating the reliance on indirect thermal transfer. This intense surface heating causes a quick and efficient thermal desorption without overheating and therefore with reduced thermal degradation and reduced rearrangement of the analyte molecules before their release from the carbonaceous surface.

While the sorbent is heated by the light irradiation the desorbed analytes are transported away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph. In some embodiments a partial vacuum is created within the desorption chamber and the analytes diffuse away from the sorbent and into the gas chromatograph. In other embodiments the desorbed analytes are carried away by a carrier gas. After the desorption process is completed the sorbent sample is flushed from the chamber by a transport gas so that a new sample can be introduced.

With reference to in one general aspect of the present invention the enclosed chamber is divided into an upper section and a lower section by a porous frit . In embodiments the chamber is of a modular design utilizing gas tight seals. The sorbent is carried into the upper section by a transport gas and distributed onto the porous frit while the transport gas exits the chamber through a transport gas port .

With reference to the sample is then irradiated with heating light from a lamp or other light source that shines light onto the sample from above through a window in the chamber . In the embodiment of an inert carrier gas flows into the upper section through a carrier gas inlet port through the sample and the frit into the lower section and out through a carrier gas exit port into the gas chromatograph not shown thereby carrying the desorbed analytes into the gas chromatograph. In similar embodiments a partial vacuum is created within the desorption chamber and the desorbed analytes diffuse away from the sample through the frit through the lower section and into the gas chromatograph.

In embodiments the distribution of the sorbent sample on the frit is sufficiently uniform and thin so as to ensure that substantially all of the sample granules are directly irradiated by the heating light . In various embodiments the apparatus further includes one or more heating units that are configured to control the temperature of the enclosed chamber . This ensures that the desorbed analytes do not condense on the chamber walls or other elements of the desorption system. In some embodiments the chamber temperature is held constant while in other embodiments the chamber temperature is varied according to a desired temperature profile such as a ramped temperature profile.

With reference to in some of these embodiments the sample is carried by the transport gas into the upper section through a central pipe . The sample is then sprayed against the window and settles onto the porous frit . With reference to in various embodiments the carrier gas also enters the upper section through the central pipe so that the flow of carrier gas is directed against the inside of the window so as to break up the carrier gas jet and avoid disturbing the even distribution of the sorbent sample . And with reference to in some of these embodiments after desorption of the analytes from the sample the transport gas enters the upper section through the transport gas port and flushes the desorbed sample from the upper section and back out through the central pipe .

In embodiments the porous frit is either stainless steel or glass. In various embodiments the sorbent material is divided into a plurality of portions and only one portion at a time is introduced into the apparatus for desorption. In some of these embodiments the desorption and analysis is repeated using successive portions. And in various embodiments at least one of the portions is deposited into a collection vial for future analysis and or comparison.

In embodiments at least one of the carrier gas and the transport gas is helium argon carbon dioxide or nitrogen. In some embodiments the heating light originates from a tungsten halogen lamp .

With reference to in another general aspect of the present invention the enclosed chamber is divided into a lower section and an upper section by a porous frit . In embodiments the chamber is of a modular design utilizing gas tight seals. The sorbent is carried into the lower section by a transport gas and distributed onto the porous frit and the transport gas exits the chamber through a transport gas port .

With reference to the sample is then irradiated with heating light from a lamp or other light source that shines onto the sample from below through a window in the chamber . In the embodiment of an inert carrier gas flows into the lower section through a carrier gas inlet port past the sample through the frit into the upper section and out through a carrier gas exit port into the gas chromatograph not shown thereby carrying the desorbed analytes into the gas chromatograph. In similar embodiments a partial vacuum is created within the desorption chamber and the desorbed analytes diffuse away from the sample through the frit through the lower section and into the gas chromatograph.

With reference to in some of these embodiments the sample is carried by the transport gas into the lower section through a central pipe from which it is sprayed onto the window in a thin substantially uniform layer. With reference to in various embodiments the carrier gas also enters the lower section through the central pipe . And with reference to in some of these embodiments after desorption of the analytes from the sample the transport gas enters the lower section through the transport gas port and flushes the desorbed sample from the lower section and back out of the chamber through the central pipe .

In embodiments the distribution of the sorbent sample on the window is sufficiently uniform and thin so as to ensure that substantially all of the sample granules are directly irradiated by the heating light . In various embodiments the apparatus further includes one or more heating units that are configured to control the temperature of the enclosed chamber . This ensures that the desorbed analytes do not condense on the chamber walls or other elements of the desorption system. In some embodiments the chamber temperature is held constant while in other embodiments the chamber temperature is varied according to a desired temperature profile such as a ramped temperature profile.

In embodiments the porous frit is either stainless steel or glass. In various embodiments the sorbent material is divided into a plurality of portions and only one portion at a time is introduced into the apparatus for desorption. In some of these embodiments the desorption and analysis is repeated using successive portions. And in various embodiments at least one of the portions is deposited into a collection vial for future analysis and or comparison.

In embodiments at least one of the carrier gas and the transport gas is helium argon carbon dioxide or nitrogen. In some embodiments the heating light originates from a tungsten halogen lamp .

With reference to comparative measured results are shown illustrating the increase in analyte recovery of the present invention as compared to the prior art. The data are plotted as ratios in which the numerator is an amount of analyte recovered using a standard fast flow desorption tube of the prior art and the denominator is an amount of analyte recovered using the embodiment of the present invention illustrated in . The analyte recovery for all three of the illustrated compounds is greater for the present invention as compared to the prior art by a factor of between 2 and 3.5 at 70 lamp power. This demonstrates that the thin bed arrangement of the present invention reduces re adsorption relative to the typical long bed method of the prior art.

It can be seen from that with increasing illumination power in the thin bed arrangement of the present invention a significant improvement in analyte recovery is observed for larger molecular weight compounds. This is due to increased particle skin temperatures caused by the direct light absorption and heating of substantially every particle in the sorbent sample. In particular as shown in cumene a nine carbon hydrocarbon shows a 1500 increase in analyte recovery in response to a 30 increase in heating light illumination power. This indicates that the shorter sorbent bed length of the present invention as compared to typical prior art methods improves the efficient escape of the analytes from the sorbent with less re absorption.

The carrier gas flow rates used in embodiments of the present invention are typically higher than the flow rates anticipated by many gas chromatographs. For example embodiments of the present invention provide a carrier gas flow rate of 300 cc per minute with helium as a carrier gas while the flow rates used by a typical cryogenic focusing trap in a gas chromatograph are generally less than 70 cc per minute. Operating the present invention at a slow carrier gas flow would surrender some of the efficiency of the invention and could lead to results that were less quantitative since the analytes would have more time to possibly re adsorb on the sorbent before they were carried away by the carrier gas.

So as to enable standard gas chromatographs and cryogen sampling traps to function with the present invention embodiments of the present invention include carrier gas flow adaptors that enable the present invention to operate at a desired carrier gas flow rate that is higher than what could normally be tolerated by an unmodified gas chromatograph.

After collection of the analytes the flow of carrier gas is stopped and the cryogenic trap chamber is heated thereby allowing the analytes to flow into the analyzing column of the gas chromatograph . The cycle of heating and cooling of the cryogenic trap chamber and the coordination with the SPME sample chamber is controlled by a cryogenic trap controller .

A substantially constant pressure of inert gas is maintained at all times in the cryogenic trap chamber by a GC pressure controller included in the gas chromatograph . Excess pressure in the cryogenic trap chamber due to sample injection is vented by a split vent in the GC pressure controller . Due to the relatively slow heating and desorption in the SPME sample chamber the flow of carrier gas in this prior art example is modest and can be accepted and vented by the GC pressure controller. However in embodiments of the present invention if the SPME sample chamber were simply replaced by the present invention the much higher carrier gas flow rate would be above the limit that the GC pressure controller can manage and the system would fail.

Referring to embodiments of the present invention include a carrier gas flow adaptor that interrupts the flow between the GC pressure controller and the cryogenic trap chamber so that after the analytes are deposited in the cryogenic trap chamber the carrier gas from the desorption chamber of the invention flows out through a vent in the flow adaptor while the regulating flow from the GC pressure controller is temporarily short circuited back on itself and thereby isolated from the cryogenic trap chamber . After all of the analytes have been collected in the cryogenic trap chamber the flow of carrier gas is stopped and the control paths between the GC pressure controller and the cryogenic trap chamber are restored resume normal operation.

The carrier gas flow adaptor also interrupts the control signals between the cryogenic trap controller and the cryogenic trap chamber so that the switching of the gas flow channels between the GC pressure controller and the cryogenic trap chamber can be coordinate with the stopping and starting of the flow of carrier gas from the desorption chamber and the cooling and heating of the cryogenic trap chamber .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

