---

title: Blood reservoir with a separate vent and a sucker chambers
abstract: The present invention consists of a venous blood reservoir that has a separate blood chamber to filter vent blood and a separate chamber to filter sucker blood. The two blood chambers are separated by a common wall and are in fluid communication along their top assuring that vacuum applied to the top of either is equally applied to the other. A mean to form communication across the wall allows the user to either accumulate sucker blood in its chamber while letting vent blood to flow freely to the venous blood chamber. Alternately, user can let the blood in the sucker chamber to combine with the venous blood freely too.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08882696&OS=08882696&RS=08882696
owner: 
number: 08882696
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120402
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of International Application number PCT US2005 002198 filed Jan. 24 2005 titled A Soft Shell Venous reservoir Cardiotomy Reservoir with Improved Air Removal Capability and published under the PCT as WO 2006 057650 A2 Jun. 1 2006 that claims the priority date of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 591 812 issued Sep. 22 2009 and patent application Ser. No. 12 563 147 filed Sep. 20 2009 and now U.S. Pat. No. 8 147 440 to be issued Apr. 3 2012 the disclosures of the aforementioned applications being incorporated herein by reference thereto.

This invention was in part made with government support under SBIR Grants R44HL 55034 and R44HL66810 awarded by the National Institute Health National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. As such the government may have certain rights in the invention.

The full invention consists of an air purging system in combination with a compliant storage chamber having at least one pliable wall that forms a venous reservoir and a two chamber cardiotomy reservoir incorporated atop the storage chamber. The combined units provide a collapsible closed venous reservoir unitized with cardiotomy reservoir with vented blood separated from the sucker blood having improved air removal features.

During cardiopulmonary bypass blood flow from the venous side of the patient to a venous reservoir depends on the resistance of the fluid conduit between patient and reservoir and the pressure difference between patient and reservoir. When the reservoir is maintained at atmospheric pressure that pressure difference is the height difference between patient and reservoir the resulting flow is referred to as gravity drainage. Venous drainage by gravity alone provides inadequate return during procedures such as minimally invasive cardiac surgery and bypass via femoral cannulation. Usually it is the resistance of the venous cannula that limits the flow rate. Vacuum assisted venous drainage VAVD is a technique that overcomes flow limitations by applying suction to the venous reservoir thereby increasing the pressure difference between the venous cannulation site and venous reservoir. VAVD allows for a decrease in the inner diameter ID of the venous line thereby reducing prime volume and enabling the use of a smaller internal diameter cannula which translates to an easier insertion better surgical view and a smaller surgical incision.

Clinically venous bags are used because they provide significant safety features if the bag accidentally empties it collapses thereby preventing gross air from being pumped to the patient they have no or very little air blood interface and they require no antifoam agents that can embolize into the blood. Designs that allow VAVD with venous bags have been previously described by Tamari s U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 337 049 and 6 773 426 and Cambron s U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 495. The present invention also allows the user the option of VAVD.

The only venous reservoir that combines a flexible wall and a rigid wall to form a closed variable blood chamber is that described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 424 190 and 4 959 062. Each of these devices has its outlet at the lowest point of the venous reservoir see 24 in FIG. 24 of U.S. Pat. No. 062 and 36 in FIG. 3 of U.S. Pat. No. 190 . This choice makes it more difficult to assure that the pliable wall seals against its mating rigid wall when the reservoir empties. The 190 patent has a drawback once that reservoir empties its pliable wall is sucked in at its outlet and shuts off as it should. However when the volume returns the flexible wall remains stuck to the outlet and does not open until the reservoir is almost full. The 062 patent s design alleviates that flaw however it introduced another problem when the reservoir empties the rib prevents the flexible wall from completely sealing against the outlet port allowing air from the cardiotomy reservoir to be sucked in an undesirable outcome. The present invention provides a design that allows the outlet to close completely when the reservoir empties and to easily open when less than of the volume of a full reservoir returns.

When air enters blood the blood foams. Hard shell reservoirs have defoamers within the venous inlet chamber e.g. see defoamer 6 in distribution chamber 22 of FIG. 9a in Fini U.S. Pat. No. 6 287 270 . In the open hard shell reservoir air escapes by floating to the top of the reservoir where it is purged to atmosphere. In prior art venous bag reservoirs air also floats to the top but it must be actively eliminated. This can be done manually with a syringe or more frequently with a roller pump intermittently operating to remove air accumulating at the top of the bag. This is shown in where foam that accumulates at the top of collapsible venous reservoir is removed by suction pump that pumps that foam air to cardiotomy reservoir . With either method a sudden large volume of air can overwhelm the air removal system and cause disastrous consequences especially without a vigilant perfusionist. Further sucking blood and foam through the small diameter of the tubes and stopcocks used at the top of current bags results in blood damage. Various solutions have been proposed. Tamari s U.S. Pat. Nos. 049 and 426 eliminate air from a venous bag automatically by utilizing a floating ball valve a hydrophobic membrane or a level sensor. All three systems require suction to remove the air. Also with current available membrane materials the membrane has limited effective life.

Tamari s 049 and 426 patents also describe a blood chamber with a level sensor that activates a vacuum source to remove the air when the blood level in the chamber drops below that sensor. The design provides automated means to remove air from that chamber and that chamber in combination with a blood chamber having at least one flexible wall allows automated air removal and VAVD with a venous bag but does not as the present invention allow for passive air removal.

Active air removal required for venous bags also results in more difficult priming. Thus once a bag is primed and the prime solution is recirculated the air in the rest of the circuit is returned to the bag again filling it with air. A better system would not allow air to return to the primed bag. This would reduce priming time and the possibility that air can remain in the bag.

State of the Art soft shell venous reservoirs with a screen are poorly designed a large portion of their screen contacts the internal walls of the bag rendering that portion of the screen ineffective and thereby increasing the resistance to blood flow across the screen. This is illustrated in a line drawing of a prior art bag made by Cobe a line drawing of a cross section along line of the bag shown in and an enlargement of the circled section of the bag shown in . As illustrated at low volume most of the screen contacts the walls of the bag and is unavailable for blood flow. The contact area of the screen contacting the walls of the bag increases as the volume in the reservoir decreases. Two typical prior art venous bags exhibiting these problems are the ones described in Hess s U.S. Pat. No. 5 573 526 and in Stewart s U.S. Pat. No. 5 720 741. The latter is depicted in the present application in as PRIOR ART. One aspect of the present invention eliminates contact between the screen and the walls of the chamber housing it thereby allowing the use of a screen with smaller area and or smaller pores. Though Tamari s 049 and 426 patents illustrate designs that prevent the screen from contacting the wall of the reservoir e.g. FIGS. 7a and 7b of 049 those designs in combination with a venous reservoir require that controlled vacuum be applied to the top of the venous bag to remove air.

As the pore size of filter screen used to trap bubbles decreases so does the effective open area and resistance to flow. For example the preferred screen used for State of the Art venous bag has a pore size of 105 and an open area of 52 as compared to an open area of only 30 for a screen with a pore size of 37 . However as described in reference to screen in the use of smaller pore screen reduces the size and number of bubbles. The larger effective screen area of the present invention allows using a smaller pore size screen and still maintaining a total open area that is equal to or is even larger than State of the Art bags thereby maintaining a blood velocity across the screen that equals to or is lower than that associated with current bags. A lower velocity translates to lower number of bubbles crossing the screen.

At low blood levels or if there is air in current soft shell reservoirs the indication of blood level is inaccurate and the alarms mostly designed for hard shell reservoirs are not reliable. The present invention provides more reliable means to alarm at low blood levels.

A softshell reservoir with integrated cardiotomy reservoir is described in Elgas s U.S. Pat. No. 5 935 093. That softshell blood reservoir incorporates an integral flexible cardiotomy section in which a filter defoamer unit is supported in a semirigid cage. The reservoir also incorporates a storage section and a mixing section. The three sections can selectively communicate with each other. A major shortcoming of this unit is that if the cardiotomy in fluid communication with the venous reservoir empties then air can enter the venous reservoir and exit its outlet. The unit also does not allow VAVD and requires active removal of air from the venous reservoir. The present invention prevents air from the cardiotomy to exit the venous reservoir allows VAVD and air is exhausted to atmosphere passively.

Almost all hard shell venous reservoirs incorporate a cardiotomy reservoir the user gets a single unit e.g. Thor et al s U.S. Pat. No. 5 411 705 and Fini s 270 patent . The lower cost shorter setup time and ease of air removal are the major reasons that more hard shell reservoirs are used than collapsible venous reservoirs. In one form the present invention provides the user with a collapsible venous reservoir and a cardiotomy reservoir as a single unit that is easy to setup and is clinically safer than the State of the Art unified hard shell venous cardiotomy reservoir unit.

During CPB clean blood includes blood aspirated from a venting site e.g. the aortic root cardioplegia cannula LV vent blood with entrapped air withdrawn from the top of a venous bag i.e. as used by NovoSci and blood purged from the top of the arterial filter. Clean blood is distinctly different from the dirty blood sucked from the surgical field mostly of which comes from the pericardial sack. Please note that in general the term sucker and dirty are used interchangeably but refer to the same blood. Before clean blood is returned to the patient its entrapped air must be removed. Vent blood may entrain a large volume of air. If that blood is added directly to venous blood it generates a large volume of foam and a concomitant large blood gas area and can easily overwhelm the active air removal systems of current minicircuits see below . Before sucker blood can be returned it must be filtered to remove both debris e.g. particles of fat and tissue clots and entrapped air. Retransfusion of cardiotomy suction blood and mediastinal shed blood increases postoperative systemic inflammatory response hemolysis acellular lipid deposits in the microvasculature thrombin neutrophil and platelet activation and the release of neuron specific enolase. It is considered preferable to send this blood to a cell saver. When using venous bags both the clean and dirty blood are processed by passing through a cardiotomy reservoir a disadvantage because the clean blood is exposed to the inlet of the filter for the dirty blood with its aforementioned deleterious consequences.

There are no cardiotomies that filter the clean blood separate from the dirty blood and keep the two apart. Some State of the Art hard shell reservoirs allow clean blood to bypass the dirty blood filter by directing the clean blood into the venous blood inlet chamber. However none provide means to purge the air out of the clean blood prior to it combining with the venous blood thereby limiting the clinically undesirable generation of large volume of blood foam. Fini s 270 patent partially addresses this by having a valve that lets the user to either use the dirty blood flow to the venous chamber or to accumulate it in a chamber and then direct it to a cell saver. Yokoyama et al. s U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 446 illustrates a cardiotomy reservoir with a filter for the vented blood and a separate filter for dirty blood both located in a single chamber the venous outlet chamber. This prevents clean blood from directly contacting foreign substances filtered off from the dirty blood but does not prevent clean blood accumulating in the cardiotomy from contacting the debris in the filter once the blood level reaches the debris. The present invention addresses these drawbacks by separating the clean blood from the dirty blood by having each in its own chamber as well as giving the user a choice to return the dirty blood to the venous blood or to a cell saver.

Blood enters the cardiotomy reservoir of prior art devices either at the top of the cardiotomy or via a tube that extends vertically downward to the bottom half of the reservoir. The former separates blood from air as it enters the reservoir but results in foam from the entering blood splashing into the blood in the reservoir. The latter when the blood level is above the outlet of the entrance tube results in foam from the air in the entering blood bubbling in the blood in the reservoir. The present invention allows at least the clean blood to enter along an angle that purges most of the air prior to the clean blood joining blood already in the cardiotomy while limiting splashing.

Many of the State of the Art cardiotomies include a perfusion connector that accommodates a ID tubing but none have a ID tubing extending from the top of the cardiotomy to its bottom as to allow a clotted cardiotomy filter to be bypassed using a new cardiotomy connected to the inlet of that tubing.

Cardiotomy reservoirs are also used to accommodate the overflow of blood volume that exceeds the capacity of the venous bag the largest one can accommodate less than 2.0 L . Larger blood volume capacity is frequently required during aortic or mitral valve replacement during which the excess volume rises into the cardiotomy reservoir resulting in clean venous blood contacting the aggressive filter and the filtrate e.g. fat bone chips etc. trapped at the bottom of the filter of the cardiotomy reservoir that can result in the aforementioned undesirable outcomes.

The blood level at which the clean blood contacts the antifoam loaded defoamer in the venous reservoir and the volume at which the blood contacts the aggressive cardiotomy reservoir filter is summarized in Table 1 for typical State of the Art hard shell venous cardiotomy reservoir units. In one form of the present invention the volume capacity of the closed venous blood chamber and or the clean chamber of the cardiotomy reservoir is higher than current systems thereby limiting clean blood contact with the dirty chamber and or defoamer while limiting blood to air interface see below .

Minimizing the blood to air interface is a major design objective of devices used in the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit. The last two columns in Table 1 provide the surface area of air that the blood is exposed to when the reservoir contains 500 or 1000 ml of blood. As will be shown when the venous reservoir of the present invention is filled it has 7 to 30 times smaller blood to air area than State of the Art hard shell venous reservoirs. The values assume that there is no air in the venous blood or foam above the blood. It should be noted that the maximum venous blood volume that can be accommodated by the State of the Art units without contacting the defoamer of either the HSVR or CR or the dirty blood filter is 1 200 ml.

The defoamer of State of the Art venous reservoirs is located at least along the top section of the reservoir e.g. Terumo s SX 25 or lineup the entire screen area of the inlet section of the reservoir Cobe s VVR 4000i . Currently it is not known whether early collapsing of blood foam that lowers blood air interface but increases blood contact with the antifoam is clinically better than reducing blood contact with the antifoam but increasing blood to air interface. One aspect of the present invention incorporates a top and bottom defoamer wherein the bottom defoamer is smaller by volume and extends downward from the top defoamer into the inlet chamber of the air purging chamber a geometry that provides flexibility in adjusting early defoaming capabilities while reducing the defoamer contact with the blood.

Blood flow from the cardiotomy reservoir to a venous bag can be intermittent or continuous depending on the frequency the suckers are used and the volume aspirated from the field. The outlet port of the cardiotomy reservoir used for adults is universally internal diameter as is the tube connecting the outlet of the cardiotomy reservoir to the inlet of the venous bag see tube in . Further the outlet port faces straight vertically or horizontally. That combination results in the air in tube to be trapped by the incoming blood above it and dragged with that blood into the venous bag thereby adding air to the blood in the venous bag. A form of the present invention provides a fluid path between the cardiotomy reservoir and venous bag with decreased tendency to trap air.

Unpublished studies by the Inventor have shown the efficiency to remove venous air while minimizing blood volume and blood damage by blood contacting air can be expressed by a dimensionless parameter that equals the ratio of screen area available for blood flow between the venous inlet and outlet and the blood to air interface area. A higher ratio should result in better clinical outcome. The values for that parameter for some State of the Art hard shell venous reservoirs are given in at a range of volumes. The data suggests that Terumo s hard shell venous reservoir e.g. Capiox 18SX should handle venous air best. Unpublished studies by the Inventor confirmed that Terumo s 18SX has the lowest bubble count at its outlet when air is added to the venous blood flowing into its inlet. also shows that the values of the dimensionless parameter for the present invention i.e. APC and VR APC are significantly higher than Terumo s values. For that reason as well as others described below the present invention handles air better than any other State of the Art venous reservoir.

Hard shell venous reservoirs utilize low level detectors to either shut the arterial pump and or actuate a tubing clamp e.g. see Sorin s ECC.O system below to stop outlet flow from the reservoir and prevent the reservoir from emptying and air from being pumped to the patient. A higher change in blood level per change in volume i.e. a reservoir with smaller cross sectional area allows for a control more sensitive to smaller changes in blood volume in the reservoir. As shown in and Terumo s hard shell venous reservoirs have the smallest cross sectional area with the highest blood level of any State of the Art reservoirs. At low volumes Terumo s reservoirs also have the largest screen area and smallest blood to air interface see . The present invention improves on these parameters providing an elongated small diameter air purging chamber with a larger screen area and smaller blood to gas interface per blood volume.

Numerous minicircuits that minimize operating volume and eliminate the blood to air interface have been introduced e.g. Cardiovention s CORx covered by U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 670 Medtronic s Resting Heart system covered by U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 302 860 6 524 267 Terumo s Reduced Prime Optimized Circuit also called ROCand Sorin s ExtraCorporeal Circulation Optimized ECC.O . Each of these circuits has replaced a venous reservoir with a venous air filter to trap and remove air from the venous line and the cardiotomy reservoir. The premise of these circuits is to reduce prime volume to reduce hemodilution. Lower priming volume results in a reduction in post bypass transfusions reduces crystalloid fluid administration and retains plasma colloid osmotic pressure during CPB and reduces post CPB extravascular lung water and weight gain edema .

Terumo s minicircuit includes an air sensor that controls both the centrifugal pump and an electronic venous occluder that allow the user to remove the air manually. Stopping blood flow to remove air may be clinically harmful especially in cases where air enters the venous line repeatedly.

Medtronic s CardioVention s and Cobe s minicircuits utilize a sensor that detects air in the venous line and actuates suction to remove that air and the associated electronics to assure that the suction is applied only when so indicated by the sensor. Doing otherwise removes blood from the reservoir or risking air entering the outlet of the air purging chamber. A more recent invention is described by Olsen et al in US Patent Application number 20040220509 entitled Active air removal from an extracorporeal blood circuit . That design requires complicated electronics as displayed by FIGS. 14 through 56 of that application.

The greatest weakness of the State of the Art minicircuits is their poor air removal characteristics and lack of compliance between the patient and the centrifugal arterial pump. Each of the active air removal systems requires a special controlling system that senses air and applies suction to remove all the air from the top of the venous filter. This requires the user to assist the upward rise and removal of air by reducing blood flows by as much as 50 . Thus in cases where air is intermittently entrained in the venous line the user has to reduce the blood flow to the patient repeatedly. Cobe recommends that the roller pump removing air from the venous line be set to pump 450 ml min for 6 sec each time air is sensed in the venous line. In a worst case scenario 0.5 cc of air in the venous blood passing the air sensor every 6 sec 5 cc min of air would result in pumping over 400 ml of blood every minute out of the CPB circuit and into the cell saver or cardiotomy. Even if the air removal pump is actuated once per minute due to a small air bubble in the venous line a patient on bypass for 90 minutes would lose 45 ml min or in aggregate over 4 L. Medtronic s Active Air Removal Device and Venous Air Removal Device VARD can be fooled by foam that forms at the top of the venous filter a shortfall that can result in removal of a significant volume of blood. This is especially true at high blood flow rates and may be the reason that the Medtronic s instructions warn that blood flow should be reduced to 1.0 L min for 30 sec at least once every hour. Further per the Instructions for Use wall suction is used to remove the air and therefore the blood sucked with the air is also lost. Later instructions suggested that the cell saver s cardiotomy be used instead of wall suction. However large blood volumes directed to the cardiotomy exposes that blood to the aforementioned harmful affects of the filtrate of the dirty blood the antifoam agents and to the large blood air interface associated with the defoamer of the cardiotomy all of which degrade the benefits of the minicircuits. A form of the present invention provides efficient venous air removal unmatched by any minicircuit or State of the Art hard shell or soft shell reservoirs.

The air purging chambers of State of the Art minicircuits essentially placed arterial filters in the venous line. These filters ratio of height to diameter is less than 2 and they do not communicate with ambient atmosphere. This design is not conducive to detecting small changes in volume. The present invention provides a much larger height to diameter ratio and a much larger change in height for the same change in volume a characteristic that allows level sensors to react to much smaller volume changes.

A major objective for venous filters with air removal capabilities is to reduce the priming volume of the CPB circuit by removing the venous reservoir while still removing air and foam from the venous line prior to it entering the arterial pump. At least one aspect of the present invention provides further reduced volume and effectively passively or actively deaerates venous blood and collapses foamed blood much like hard shell venous reservoirs do. This action is achieved without the need to reduce pump flow or suck blood out of the circuit and requires less contact with the defoamer while lowering foam volume by defoaming the blood earlier without exposing venous blood to the dirty blood of a cardiotomy and with minimal or no blood loss due to air removal.

None of the minicircuits enables the user to handle clean blood except through the cell saver which mandates a loss of plasma and platelets. The present invention deaerates clean blood before it is combined with venous blood without requiring it to pass through either a cardiotomy reservoir or a cell saver. In one form this is achieved with a two chamber cardiotomy one chamber for the dirty blood and the other for the clean blood with means that allow the user to start or stop blood flow from the dirty to the clean blood. Blood from the clean blood chamber is in fluid communication with the inlet of the venous reservoir.

All minicircuits utilize a centrifugal pump CP to draw venous blood Kinetic Assisted Venous Drainage or KAVD and generate arterial line pressure. KAVD has 2 major draw backs 

1. Centrifugal pumps handle air poorly any large bubbles that pass the air removal system and enter the centrifugal pumps are divided into much smaller bubbles that are less buoyant and are thus more difficult to remove. Large bubbles that could be trapped at the top of the arterial filter appear as smaller bubbles able to cross the arterial filter. This problem is further exacerbated at the higher pump speeds needed when a single centrifugal pump is used both to draw venous blood and to generate the arterial line pressure.

2. Centrifugal pumps maintain a fixed pressure difference between inlet and outlet. Thus when the heart is manipulated causing the venous cannula to temporarily obstruct venous flow stops. Flow cessation due to occlusion upstream of the pump inlet results in an inlet suction at least equivalent to the positive pressure at the centrifugal pump s outlet before the flow stopped. For example at a flow of 5 L min and a pump outlet pressure of 250 mmHg an obstruction at the pump inlet would translate to the pump generating an inlet pressure of 250 mmHg or higher. A high transient suction applied at the tip of the venous cannula could suck the vessel against the cannula s open end causing it to occlude preventing further flow and perhaps causing both intima and blood damage until the pump is stopped. This condition may also result in cavitation bubble formation within the pump a situation that could result in significant blood damage. The present invention operates in the safer VAVD mode that allows the user to set a maximum negative pressure with a vacuum regulator yet allow reverting to operating in the KAVD mode. In either the KAVD or VAVD mode of operation the system provides better air handling than current venous reservoirs or removes air from the venous blood before it reaches the bubble dispersing centrifugal pump. Further the presence of air at the top of the air purger of the present invention provides compliance that reduces the spikes of negative pressure inherent with current KAVD minicircuits by allowing the pump controller more time to decrease pump flow and absorbing the large pressure spikes associated with sudden stoppage of blood flow at the pump inlet. Unlike all other minicircuits the present invention besides providing a choice between KAVD and VAVD also allows venous drainage by gravity. Further in gravity mode it may incorporate passive means that prevent blood from spilling over the top of the blood chamber.

When vacuum is applied to the venous reservoir to assist in pulling blood out of the patient then water vapor evaporating off the blood e.g. at 37 C. condenses on the cooler walls of the tubing between the vacuum source and the venous reservoir and can drip back into the blood. Water condensate dripping back into the blood can compromise sterility and damage the blood. Current systems eliminate that problem by inserting a sterile vapor trap between the vacuum source and the venous reservoir a step that increases setup time and cost. The present invention incorporates a vapor trap with the venous or cardiotomy reservoir eliminating the need for a standalone vapor trap.

Current vacuum assisted venous drainage capable bags e.g. See FIG. 4 of the Instruction for Use for The V Bag require one connection to apply vacuum to the rigid chamber housing the bag and another to apply vacuum to the cardiotomy. A single connection to both venous bag and cardiotomy chambers would reduce setup and cost.

The aforementioned shortfalls of the State of Art minicircuits venous reservoirs whether bags or hard shell and cardiotomy reservoirs are improved upon by the innovative designs of the present invention as more fully described below.

The present invention in its simplest form consists of a very efficient low volume chamber that removes air from the venous line hereinafter referred to as the air purging chamber APC . The air purging chamber consists of a vertical blood chamber having an inlet an outlet and an air purge port. The inlet and outlet can be separated by a screen that allows blood to cross from the inlet to the outlet but retains air bubbles in the inlet chamber. The screen also defines an inlet chamber and an outlet chamber. Gas e.g. air bubbles in the blood entering the bottom of the inlet chamber rise to the top of the blood column contained by the inlet chamber and are purged to atmosphere. The air purging chamber separates air bubbles from the venous blood and purges that air to atmosphere as is the case with the hard shell venous reservoir without the need for the suction or vacuum required with prior State of Art soft shell venous reservoir or minicircuits. A defoamer located at the top of the inlet chamber collapses foam that forms by the air bubbles in the blood. The blood in the inlet chamber flows across the screen into the outlet chamber and downward towards the outlet port located along the bottom of the outlet chamber. Combining this air purger with a cardiotomy reservoir and a reservoir having at least one flexible wall as a single unit provides venous reservoir with superior air removal characteristics with the safety benefits of prior art collapsible venous reservoirs while avoiding such disadvantages as air entrapment required vigilance for air removal poor level control slower priming and lack of a cardiotomy reservoir. The functionality of this innovative venous reservoir is further enhanced by also providing VAVD capabilities with a built in vapor trap a small blood to gas interface even when the venous reservoir is full. The innovative cardiotomy with a separate chamber for clean blood and separate chamber for dirty blood and a vapor trap completes this superior design.

From the brief description of the invention and the aforementioned drawbacks of current reservoirs and venous air purging of minicircuits it is the objective of the present invention to provide an improved venous air purging chamber that provides bubbles entering its inlet a path to move unhindered upward and passively purged to atmosphere and that can operate either with VAVD where suction is utilized to remove air or by gravity drainage where the venous air is removed passively to atmosphere.

In one embodiment the top of the air purging chamber is designed to also accept deaerated vented blood without it contacting the dirty blood in the cardiotomy reservoir.

In another embodiment the top of the air purging chamber also incorporates means to deaerate and defoam vented blood without it mixing with the dirty blood in the cardiotomy reservoir.

It is another form the present invention provides an improved venous air purging chamber with defoaming capabilities.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an improved low volume venous air purging chamber with a large effective screen area available for blood flow that provides defoaming capabilities and that in one form accepts clean blood without that blood being exposed to dirty blood.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an improved venous air purging chamber with a large effective screen area available for blood flow having a lower operating volume than State of the Art air purgers used for minicircuits.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an improved passive venous air purging chamber having a large effective screen area and a low operating volume that for the adult patient its blood to air interface area is lower than 30 cmfor at least 8 cm of its lower height and or 60 cmfor at least 13 cm of its lower height.

Another objective is to provide a venous air purger acting as a venous reservoir that provides a tall and relatively narrow liquid column having a ratio of height to diameter greater than 2 such that even at low blood volumes a large screen area is still available for blood flow and relative to State of the Art reservoirs large changes in height correspond to small changes in volume.

It is another objective of the present invention to provide an improved venous air purging chamber that provides defoaming capabilities even at low filling volume while minimizing blood contact with the defoamer.

It is another objective of the present invention to provide a blood chamber with defoaming capabilities that incorporates a top and bottom defoamer wherein the bottom defoamer has a lower volume is longer and extends downward into the blood chamber. Such chamber can for example be the venous air purging chamber.

Another objective is to provide a cardiotomy reservoir having at least a clean blood and a dirty blood chambers as a single unit with the clean and dirty chambers in a fluid communication that can be closed or opened by the end user.

Another objective is to provide a single defoamer that defoams clean blood and venous blood while assuring that the clean blood combines with the venous blood without contacting the cardiotomy filter.

Another objective is to provide fluid communication between the outlet of an air purging chamber and the inlet to a compliant storage chamber that is at least in part formed of the rigid structure.

Another objective is to provide a compliant storage chamber with at least one pliable wall that once primed it shuts off prior to air entering it.

Another objective is to provide a fluid path between an air purging chamber and a compliant storage chamber with an adjustable resistance to liquid flow thereby allowing the user to adjust the height of the blood column in the air purging chamber and thereby increase the screen area available for blood flow.

Yet another objective of the present invention is an improved venous blood reservoir having at least one pliable wall combined with a cardiotomy reservoir in fluid communication such that a single air port can be used to apply the same vacuum to the blood in each of the chambers.

One more objective of the present invention is to incorporate a vapor trap in the vacuum side of the air purging chamber the cardiotomy reservoir or compliant blood chamber said trap replacing a stand alone vapor trap thereby reducing cost and setup time.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide an improved venous blood reservoir with at least one pliable wall having passive means to eliminate air.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide a venous reservoir with at least one flexible wall combined with a cardiotomy as a single unit that can be used with either gravity drainage or with VAVD thus reducing cost of inventory and simplifying the user s set up.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a single unit composed of a venous blood reservoir having at least one pliable wall in fluid communication with at least a second blood chamber said second chamber having at least one rigid wall wherein the blood level in the second chamber can be higher than the blood level of the chamber with the pliable wall.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a venous blood reservoir having at least one pliable wall and at least second blood chamber having at least one rigid wall wherein the second chamber is located above the venous reservoir and the chambers combined as a single unit with an outlet that once primed shuts off before air can exit its outlet.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a venous blood reservoir and a cardiotomy reservoir combined as a single unit with the venous blood reservoir able to handle a blood flow of 61 min and accommodates at least 1 300 ml without the venous blood contacting a defoamer and or the filter of the dirty blood.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a venous blood reservoir having at least one pliable wall and a cardiotomy reservoir combined as a single unit and with the cardiotomy consisting of a clean blood chamber and a dirty blood chamber said cardiotomy chambers in fluid communication with each other via a fluid path that can be opened closed by the user.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a cardiotomy reservoir consisting of a clean blood chamber and a dirty blood chamber said chambers in fluid communication with each other and means that allow the user to open close said fluid communication.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a blood path between the outlet of a cardiotomy reservoir and a second chamber that incorporates means that limit the volume of air entrapped and pumped from the cardiotomy reservoir into the second chamber.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a venous blood reservoir with improved passive air removal capabilities having a blood volume capacity of at least 300 ml and a flow capacity of at least 5 l min wherein the venous blood to air interface is no more than 50 cmfor at least the lower 10 cm of the blood reservoir.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide a stand alone venous air purging chamber with passive and improved passive air removal capabilities even when operating at a blood volume less than 150 ml that can handle a blood flow of at least 4 l min.

Yet another objective is to offer the combination of a rigid air purging chamber and a venous reservoir having at least one flexible wall with passive air removal capabilities.

One more objective of the present invention is to provide a venous air purging chamber with passive and improved air removal capabilities having a ratio of screen area to blood to air interface area of at least 4.0.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide the manufacturing flexibility to accommodate future clinical finding that could determine which is more beneficial to the patient collapsing the foam to reduce blood gas interface or reducing blood contact with the defoamer.

Other objectives features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent by reference to the following detailed description an illustrative description not to be taken as limiting the present invention of the presently embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings therein.

Reference should now be made to the drawings wherein the same reference numerals are used throughout to designate the same or similar parts. It should be noted that the use of cardiopulmonary bypass as shown in is for descriptive purposes and should not be taken as a limitation to the use of the devices described hereinafter. Further the description of the inventions that follow are for illustrative purposes other embodiments are possible and therefore what follows is suggestive of the art but should not be construed as a limitation of the scope or the spirit of the invention. Hereinafter unless otherwise indicated the terms soft shell venous reservoir venous bag and bag are used interchangeably and refer to a blood chamber with at least one flexible wall.

The ineffective air handling of prior art soft shell venous reservoirs is illustrated by line drawings given in and . is a line drawing of State of the Art venous reservoir as typically represented by Cobe s venous reservoir Model VRB Cobe Lakewood Colo. and described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 352 218 issued to Buckley et al. Oct. 4 1994 titled Venous reservoir bag assembly . Though this bag has a large screen defined by the dashed lines in at low volumes only a very small area of the screen defined by the double headed arrow in is available for blood entering the screen area to flow to the outlet port. This is further exasperated at low blood volume the bag is not fully expanded at the screen area causing most of the screen defined by the double arrow to contact the collapsed walls and not available for blood flow. At low volumes and high flow large bubbles entering the Cobe bag are dragged across the screen and break up into smaller bubbles that are more difficult to remove due to their lower buoyancy. As described below in reference to and the present invention provides a larger screen area for blood flow at a lower blood volume.

The effective area of screened wall is defined as the area available for blood in inlet chamber to flow across screen into outlet chamber . For air purging chamber that area equals the product of the periphery of screen wall i.e. 3.14.times diameter of chamber and the height difference between blood level in chamber and bottom level of chamber . Because none of the screen area in contact with the blood wetted area is blocked by the walls of outlet chamber as is the case with State of the Art venous bags discussed in reference to and blood flows across that entire wetted area. A larger effective area translates to lower velocity across each pore in the screen which lowers the drag force that can push bubbles across that screen into outlet chamber . Once the blood enters outlet chamber it flows downward in the annular space defined by cylindrical screen wall and rigid wall until it exits through outlet port . Outlet port in fluid communication with outlet chamber is located at a vertical level that is preferably lower than bottom level of screen a location that reduces the chance of bubbles crossing from inlet chamber to the outlet port . However if minimizing operating volume is more important then the outlet can be located at level . Air entering inlet chamber may cross to outlet chamber along a non wetted screen area and then flow upward to air exhaust tube or escape along the top of chamber .

Air purging chamber preferably incorporates defoamer preferably made of reticulated polyurethane foam having a pore size in the range of 5 to 50 ppi treated with antifoam agents such as silicone that breaks up foam formed by air traveling up the blood column in inlet chamber . Defoamer preferably is located at the top most section of inlet chamber a location that limits its contact with the blood in chamber but avails it to defoam blood foam that rises to the top of chamber . The defoamer may also incorporate open channel that provides unrestricted fluid communication between inlet chamber the top of chamber and air exhaust port utilizing structure . Air is exhausted via channel in wall to atmosphere. Thus foam very large bubbles entering channel is exposed to defoamer where it is broken up and collapsed. For cases where excess foam is generated or if defoamer loses some of its defoaming capacity then having outlet of channel directed from exhausting to atmosphere to the inlet of a cardiotomy reservoir as shown in reference to tube in and defoamer illustrated in and where further defoaming can be achieved.

Since foam has a very a large blood to air interface it is advantageous to limit its life and collapse it sooner rather than later. To that end an additional length of a defoamer is used. Defoamer preferably has a nominal width equaling to 10 to 50 of the inside periphery of inlet chamber and extends from the bottom of defoamer downward up to 75 of the length of inlet chamber . It may also have a smaller surface area than defoamer . These dimensions reduce the undesirable blood contact with the defoamer yet still collapse blood foam that has not reached defoamer and thereby significantly reducing the blood to gas interface associated with foam. The variable defoaming capabilities achieved by varying the width to less than the perimeter of chamber and extending the defoamer into the blood chamber accommodates future clinical finding that would optimize which is more beneficial to the patient collapsing the foam to reduce blood gas interface or reducing blood contact with the defoamer.

The dimensions of air purging chamber are balanced between decreasing the velocity of the blood and increasing the screen area to enhance bubble removal i.e. large internal diameter and limiting the prime volume i.e. smaller internal diameter . It should also have low resistance to blood flow. With that in mind it has been determined that for an air purging chamber designed for adult patients the optimum internal effective diameter of outlet chamber is between and 2.0 having a horizontal cross sectional area of 4 to 32 cm and inlet chamber preferably has a nominal internal diameter that is to 3 16 smaller than that of the outlet chamber. Another definition of the effective diameter of the inlet chamber is such that it results in annular cross sectional area area of the outlet chamber less that of the inlet chamber of at least 1 cm or the effective cross sectional area between that of a ID tubing 0.71 cm and that of ID tubing 1.27 cm . The cross sectional area of the annular space between the inlet and outlet chamber can also be defined as approximating the cross sectional area of venous line shown in . The effective diameter is the average diameter of the chamber e.g. for an ellipse it would be average of the major and minor diameters . The height of inlet chamber when used in combination with a venous bag is preferably greater than the maximum blood level in the venous bags or typically between 7 and 22 .

When air purger is used for minicircuits without a venous reservoir then its height can be as low as 4 a height that can be extended with a smaller diameter tube as described hereinafter in reference to tube shown in . The screen filter is preferably made of medical grade polyester or from other appropriate blood compatible material having a pore size between 20 and 150 but most preferably having a pore size between 20 and 40 . Most preferably the outlet chamber has an internal diameter between 1.25 and 1.75 and a height that prevents blood level in inlet chamber from contacting defoamer even when the bag is filled. Blood still may contact extended defoamer . The top of the screen preferably extends to the top of the outlet chamber and may be closed at its top a design that limits the blood foam crossing the defoamer radially and spilling into the outlet chamber.

When air purger is used as a stand alone device or in combination with a cardiotomy as for example shown by less venous bag then it is advantageous to provide it with a larger volume capacity. This can be achieved using the design dictated by the aforementioned dimensionless of the ratio of screen area available for blood flow between the venous inlet and outlet and the blood to air interface area. As shown in the largest ratio for State of the Art hard shell venous reservoirs is below 3. Since a larger dimensionless ratio larger screen area for blood flow and or lower blood gas interface area is clinically advantageous the air purger incorporates dimensions for the adult patient that provide a ratio that is at least 4 when operating at 100 ml without a complaint venous reservoir and at 300 ml when operating with a complaint venous reservoir. This design allows for a combination of diameters composed of long small diameter at the bottom and a shorter larger diameter at the top. In some respect this design simulates current hard shell venous reservoirs but its much larger ratio renders it superior.

A larger volume for the stand alone unit can also be achieved by either having a larger diameter top as for example shown in or increasing the effective diameter of outlet chamber as its height increases. Typical values for such a unit are illustrated in and by the data labeled APC Compound . Note that the cross sectional area of these higher volume capacity units still have a blood to air interface that is significantly lower than State of the Art venous reservoirs. Unlike present reservoirs the venous air purger always provides a blood to air interface area that is less than 40 cmfor at least the first 10 cm from bottom of outlet chamber and less than 60 cmfor at least the first 14 cm from bottom . Should a higher blood level in chamber lower gravity drainage then vacuum applied to air exhaust port compensates for that to shortfall.

Defoamer preferably has an OD equal to the internal diameter of chamber and a length of to 6 . If the defoamer is to be supported by the screen then the OD of defoamer can be slightly larger than the internal diameter of inlet chamber thus the slightly compressed defoamer inserted into chamber would spring back and its outer surface grab the inner surface of chamber . The inside diameter of open channel is preferably between and a diameter that allows free air flow yet maximizes the volume of defoamer per unit length.

It should be pointed out that the most preferred dimensions at a prime volume of 100 ml provide a nominal screen area of 110 cm a total screen area that is smaller than the most other venous bags e.g. the screen used in Cobe s bag is 200 cm . Further as the pore size of filter screen used to retain bubbles decreases the effective open area decreases and the resistance to flow increases. The preferred screen used for State of the Art venous bags has a pore size of 105 with an open area of 52 . However the use of smaller pore screen reduces the size and number of bubbles that cross screen . A test comparing bubble counts at the outlet of the air purging chamber showed that when 130 cc min of air are pumped into a 6 L min blood flow entering the venous air purging chamber the bubble counts of 15 size bubbles were 6 410 and 763 bubbles min for screens having a pore size of 37 65 and 85 respectively. The smaller pore size screen had significantly lower bubbles crossing despite its lower open area 31 for the 37 38 for the 65 and 46 for the 85 pore size screens . For an internal diameter of 1.2 for chamber a screen with a pore size of 37 having an open area of 31 the open area per one inch height of screen is over 1.1 in. Since the screen makes no contact with wall of outlet chamber its entire wetted area is available for blood flow. It is the larger effective screen area of the present invention that allows using a smaller pore size screen and still maintaining a total open area that is equal to or is even larger than State of the Art venous bags thereby maintaining a blood velocity across the screen that equals to or is lower than that associated with current venous bags. Lower velocity translates to lower number of bubbles crossing the screen.

As with many devices handling blood outlet chamber preferably is made of clear biocompatible thermoform plastic such as PETG PVC or polycarbonate or other similar materials. The entire blood contacting surfaces of air purging chamber and if possible the defoamer too are preferably passivated by one of the many coats available such as the heparin coating by Carmeda Carmeda AB Upplands V sby Sweden. 

The dimensions and the design of venous air purging chamber provide a smaller diameter air remover than State of the Art venous or arterial filters and allow the user to operate at a lower blood volume in line with minicircuit technology while providing superior air handling that includes passive air elimination. This is illustrated by and

It should be understood that the aforementioned specifications are for illustrative purposes and that other combination of dimensions can also achieve desirable results. For example the circular cross sections can be replaced with elliptical star or rectangular cross sections. The design of the air purging chamber is not limited to the designs shown in and . For example the air purging chamber can also be effective by incorporating some of the designs suggested for arterial filters e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 484 474 or 4 743 371 or bubble traps e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 019 824 .

It should be further understood that the aforementioned specifications are given for adult patients with expected blood flow between 4 and 7 L min. The specifications can be easily scaled down to accommodate lower flows and lower prime volumes associated with pediatric and infant patients. Scaling can utilize well know equation relating resistance to flow as a function of cross sectional areas such as Poiseuille law dictating flow Q to be a function of diameter d to the fourth power Q f d while still having the diameter of the inlet chamber sufficiently large to allow bubbles to float freely up the blood column. For example for infants on bypass using internal diameter tubing as venous line in the nominal internal diameter of inlet chamber of the air purging chamber can be and the internal diameter of the outlet chamber can be 1 16 to 3 32 larger.

The air purging chamber can incorporate means assuring that when inflow exceeds outflow blood does not overfill reaching and spilling out of exhaust port . One such means is level sensor shown in . Thus when sensor detects that the blood level in outlet chamber is too high it sends a signal to alarm the user and or to controller that increases pump speed to accommodate the increased inflow from the patient and prevent blood overflowing chamber . The controller can also actuate tubing clamp placed on air exhaust tube shown in to close tube thereby perverting blood from rising to further and spilling. The placement of sensor can be adjustable to preferably prevent venous blood from contacting main defoamer but if clinically necessary moved higher to allow blood level to reach defoamer but still prevent blood from spilling out.

Another and a simpler means that assures blood does not overfill and spills from the air purging chamber is shown in . Here air exhaust tube extends vertically up so its open end is leveled approximately at the level of the patient s heart. Thus when venous inflow exceeds flow out of the air purging chamber then the blood level in the tube rises reducing gravity drainage the height difference between the patient and blood level in the air purger and decreasing venous flow from the patient. Venous inflow stops once the blood level in tube reaches the level of the patient. The internal diameter of tube is preferably at least but more preferably is at least .

The air purging chamber can also incorporate blood level maintaining means for maintaining the blood level in chamber above outlet port thereby preventing gross air as opposed to microbubbles from exiting the outlet blood chamber. As an example sensor on wall operably connected to controller is attached to wall of outlet chamber in and and is used as a low level sensor that maintains blood level at a safe level above outlet of chamber . When detector senses that the blood level dropped below a safe level it sends a signal to control unit . Control unit is capable of at least sounding an alarm slowing down or shutting off the arterial pump clamping off outflow e.g. via tube clamp or increasing inlet flow e.g. during VAVD increasing the vacuum not shown to assure that blood level does not reach outlet port causing air to exit outlet port . Level detectors already incorporated in State of the Art heart lung machines can be used for this purpose. Thus the combination of State of the Art control units and the innovative disposable air purging chamber provides the user a system that effectively purges air out of the venous line passively and automatically while preventing air from exiting outlet of air purging chamber . It should be pointed out that the rigid wall of air purging chamber can be easily adapted to the State of the Art level detectors. This is in contrast to the difficulties encountered when trying to use these level detectors by placing the sensor on the pliable wall of current venous bags. As described above the air purging chamber acts much like a hard shell reservoir except that its blood to air interface area and hold up volume are significantly lower.

The combination of adjustable means to limit the high and low levels of blood in air purger also allows adjustment of the maximum operating blood volume in outlet chamber and inlet chamber . For example a small patient requiring low flow and having low blood volume is better served by operating at a low minimum level low flow allows more time to react before the outlet chamber empties and a low high level setting the combination minimizing the volume in the air purger. On the other hand for a large patient that requires high flow and more operating volume both the low volume and high level sensor would be raised to provide a larger screen area for the higher flow and more volume for the controller to react a low volume condition.

It should be clear that inlet pressure sensed by pressure transducer shown in can send a signal to control unit that controls pump speed in a manner similar to that described level sensor . Thus a low hydraulic pressure sensed at indicates a low blood level in outlet chamber and signals controller to react to prevent further drop in blood level. During VAVD a second pressure transducer measuring the vacuum applied to the blood chamber is also used. Here the signal used for controller is the difference between transducer and transducer the difference being the hydraulic pressure due to the blood level in the chamber.

The air purging chamber allows many new designs not possible with Sate of Art devices. For example line drawings of and illustrate an air purging reservoir incorporating means to accept vented clean blood. Combining the vented blood directly with the venous blood in chamber is prohibitive because the high volume of air in the vented blood would cause excess foaming. Incorporating an air purging chamber for vented blood at the top of the air purging chamber assures that the large volume of air so common to vented blood is eliminated prior to the vented blood combining with the blood in inlet chamber . As shown the top section of the air purging chamber is radially enlarged preferably to 1.5 to 2.5 times the diameter of chamber so channel can accommodate vent chamber . Vent chamber is formed of screen wall much like chamber is formed by screen wall and incorporates defoamer at the top section of chamber . Vent chamber is housed in the enlarged top section of outlet chamber defined by outside cylindrical wall inside cylindrical screen wall . Defoamer is contained and may be supported by screen . Vent chamber is centrally suspended at the top and preferably does not contact venous blood defoamer . Annular channel between vent chamber and venous defoamer serves to exhaust venous air. Vented blood enters vent chamber via inlet vent port located atop the air purging chamber and flows downward to bottom of screen . Further the bottom of screen is sealed on a diagonal with its lowest point contacting fluid path described below. It is important that bottom of vent tube be at a higher level than the maximum blood level of inlet chamber . This would assure that the large air volume in the vented blood does not bubble into the venous blood entering chamber . Foam associated with the vented blood entering vent chamber is collapsed when contacting defoamer disposed within the inside periphery of vent chamber . Preferably the only fluid communication between port and enlarged channel is via screen . This limits the foam and bubbles from the vented blood from entering channel . Defoamer is supported by circular screen and defoamer is supported by screen . With the exception noted in the next paragraph the lower section of air purging chamber is identical to that described for air purging chamber in reference to . Inlet chamber forms unobstructed fluid communication with enlarged channel via thin walled fitting . Thus screen is sealed to the smaller diameter bottom section of fitting and screen is sealed to the larger diameter top section of fitting .

Also shown in is fluid path between bottom of vent chamber to inlet chamber . Path prevents or at least reduces splashing where the vented blood enters blood in chamber and combines with venous blood at level . Less splashing results in less air bubbles entrapment and foam formation. Path can be for example polyurethane foam as used for defoamer but without the antifoam agents. Other materials that wick blood and prevent its free fall such as screens can also serve as the fluid path. Air entering inlet chamber crosses to outlet chamber along a non wetted screen area and then flows upward to air exhaust tube . Air entrapped within the vented blood entering vent chamber is forced across the non wetted section of screen and then exhausts via port . It should be clear that defoamer may also facilitate defoaming venous blood foam formed in chamber .

Another means to prevent air from entering blood pump of is to combine air purging chamber with closed compliant chamber having outlet port that shuts off before blood level reaches the level of its outlet port of outlet chamber . is a line drawing illustrating a front view of a unit combining air purging chamber with compliant venous reservoir having at least one pliable wall. As shown the unit also incorporates dual chamber cardiotomy reservoir and in . A line drawing of a cross sectional view of the combined unit shown in taken along line is illustrated in . A line drawing of a cross sectional view of the combined unit shown in taken along line is illustrated in . A line drawing of a cross sectional view of the combined unit shown in taken along line is illustrated in . Here inlet channel extends from top inlet of the combined unit downward to form a fluid communication with inlet chamber of air purging chamber . Air purging chamber is essentially the same as described in reference to and . Outlet of outlet chamber extends as channel to form fluid communication with inlet of compliant storage chamber . To assure low resistance to flow in channel preferably channel is as short as possible and has an effective diameter of inch. Compliant storage chamber is formed by rigid concaved backwall and matching in shape concaved pliable diaphragm seen in and . Diaphragm which can be vacuum formed from films such as PVC polyurethane or EVA nestles in concaved backwall and is sealed along its outside periphery to the outside periphery of rigid wall to form variable volume closed blood chamber . Chamber has an inlet port and outlet port both located along bottom of blood chamber as illustrated in and . Blood is pumped from blood chamber via outlet that is in fluid communication with arterial pump shown in via typical perfusion tubing e.g. tube in . As blood fills blood chamber pliable diaphragm moves outward expanding the volume capacity of chamber to accommodate the additional blood volume. The only air to be removed from chamber is that associated with initial priming of chamber . Air in blood chamber is removed through tube shown in having one open end along top of chamber and the other open end accessible for the user to pull the air out. A one way valve or a stopcock can be adapted to tube to facilitate air removal and preventing its return. Air movement upward in chamber may be enhanced by at least one protrusion incorporated into rigid backwall shown in and . The protrusion serves the same purpose as described in reference to air removal tubes shown in FIG. 1b of aforementioned Tamari s U.S. Pat. No. 426. In short protrusion forms channels between its wall and flexible diaphragm to allow air to move up and be purged via air purging port . In addition protrusions also provide greater strength and stiffness to backwall thereby allowing wall to be thinner reducing its weight and cost. As described below once primed and air free no air should enter blood chamber a great advantage over State of the Art venous bags which require constant vigilance suction to remove that air or some automated means.

The dimensions of compliant chamber depend on its use. For adult patients the blood volume capacity should be between 1 and 3 liters but can be reduced to 20 to 500 ml when designed to be used in association with minicircuits. The lowest volume is that required for chamber to provide the shot off feature of outlet of the compliant chamber described below.

A critical design feature of the combining air purging chamber with venous reservoir is that the vertical location of outlet port of the air purging chamber is below the lowest vertical location of chamber of venous reservoir . Height difference y1 shown in between top of outlet port and bottom of outlet port should be sufficient to assure that as blood level of chamber drops below the bottom of outlet of blood chamber the negative pressure due to the hydraulic height difference between blood level and the bottom of outlet is sufficient to cause pliable diaphragm shown in and to collapse against backwall and close outlet . Closed port isolates outlet chamber from the negative pressure generated by pump shown in and stops flow out of compliant chamber thereby stops flow out of chamber via outlet port preventing blood level from dropping to outlet port and air flowing from emptied blood chamber into blood chamber of venous reservoir . As blood level in air purger chamber rises above bottom of complaint chamber then blood starts to refill compliant chamber until its outlet reopens.

The aforementioned combination illustrated in and provides automatic and passive air purging capabilities as does a hard shell venous reservoir and the clinically preferred close blood chamber as does a soft shell venous reservoir. It also prevents air from entering the compliant venous blood chamber. Any other venous bag that contains air allows that air to be pumped to the patient when it is drained of blood. With the aforementioned combined unit air purging is handed in a separate chamber than compliant chamber forming the closed venous reservoir and therefore no air can be pumped to the patient.

The lower section of compliant storage chamber that between bottom and transition level in and having a height of h is shallower more vertical in shape and accommodates much less volume per height than the upper section that between transition and upper level defined as H h in . The shallower section provides a larger change in height per unit change in blood volume and therefore a better visualization of small volume changes in that section. The larger increase in blood height also results in a greater force to move compliant diaphragm from a closed position to an open position thereby overcoming the shortfall of prior art venous reservoir as previously described for aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 4 424 190. The desirable early opening of a closed outlet is further assisted by virtue of outlet port located on lower rigid wall that is flat and close to vertical e.g. between 70 and 90 of the horizontal plane . The vertical shape allows diaphragm more easily to peel away from rigid wall shown in . The depth of the lower section is preferably between and 1 and most preferably between and . Height h of the lower section is preferably between 1 and 4 but can be higher if a low volume compliant storage chamber is desired to better meet minicircuit requirements. To further assure that pliable diaphragm does open without requiring a large volume increase in chamber outlet of chamber is not located at the lowest fluid level of chamber as is the case for prior art compliant venous reservoirs but preferably at least 1 to 4 lengths of the diameter for outlet port away from bottom . This design also enhances intimate contact between diaphragm and rigid backplate and improves the closure of outlet port .

It should be clear that when using the air purging chamber for minicircuit applications compliant chamber can be limited in volume by reducing the chamber to that defined by a height sufficient to allow diaphragm to remain open at the designed blood flows e.g. 6 liters min for adult patients and a blood level in outlet chamber that provides sufficient screen area for efficient air removal. The minimum volume that is needed for minicircuits would have compliant chamber serve as a shut off valve to assure that blood flow from air purging chamber to complaint chamber stops prior to air exiting outlet port of outlet chamber . The minimum operating volume of the compliant chamber is preferably between 20 ml and 200 ml. Since blood level can rise above the vertical height of h the maximum height for compliant chamber when used only as a shut off valve it will provide a higher hydraulic pressure than that afforded by h . This higher pressure will result in a higher force available to reopen port without the large volume associated with filing section H h shown in

It should be noted that if a low level sensor is used with the air purger then even if outlet of compliant chamber does not fully close it still would collapse to increase resistance to flow out of complaint chamber and would allow more time for controller to react as previously described. More time allows for greater safety.

The Inventor has shown that bubble counts at the outlet of a venous bag decrease as its blood level increases Tamari Y et. al. A New Top Loading Venous Bag Provides Vacuum Assisted Venous Drainage. Perfusion 17 383 390 2002 . Thus the higher blood level in the air purging chamber relative to blood level in the compliant storage chamber is an inherent safety characteristic of the system that assures more favorable conditions for air removal. Further with State of the Art venous bags as the blood volume in the bag decreases the screen area available for blood flow from the inlet to the outlet of the bag decreases. A decrease in the screen area results in an increase in blood velocity across each pore of the screen which can cause more bubbles at the inlet side of the screen to cross to the outlet side of the screen. With the present design the screened section in the air purging chamber can extend below the bottom of compliant storage chamber assuring that even at very low blood levels in compliant storage chamber the blood column in the air purging chamber is high enough to provide a large screen area to inhibit bubbles in the venous line from reaching the outlet of the compliant storage chamber. This is clearly shown in and where bottom of screen inlet chamber is vertically lower than bottom of blood chamber . Another advantage is that whenever blood flows from the air purging chamber to the compliant storage chamber the height of the blood column in the air purging chamber is always higher than the blood level in the compliant storage chamber.

Further for any given design the difference in height between blood level in air purging chamber and blood level in venous reservoir increases as blood flow increases as is illustrated by comparing low flow conditions illustrated in to high flow conditions illustrated in . This inherent property provides additional safety at higher flows when a fixed screen area is more vulnerable to bubbles crossing the screen higher velocity and drag the current invention presents a larger screen area for blood flow at least partially compensating for the higher flow and keeping the velocity across each pore low.

The inherent difference between blood level in outlet chamber of the air purger and blood level in compliant chamber of the present invention can be manipulated to improve air removal from the incoming venous blood. For example channel could incorporate an adjustable resistance that controls the height of level relative to level . Thus at very low volumes the resistance to flow between chamber and chamber can be increased to maintain higher blood level . Conversely with a high blood volume in chamber the resistance to flow between chamber and chamber can be decreased because blood level is already high. This can be achieved by incorporating an adjustable resistance to the flow fluid path between the air purging chamber and compliant storage chamber such as tubing clamp shown in thereby allowing the end user to adjust the height of the blood column in the air purging chamber to accommodate different flow and air volume in the incoming venous blood. It should be noted that simple fluid physics dictates that when blood flow ceases blood level in chamber equals blood level in venous blood chamber . The effective air handling described above is in direct contrast to prior art soft shell venous reservoirs as previously described in reference illustrated in and

Yet another advantage of the combined unit described in reference to is that it limits the venous blood gas interface to the cross sectional area of outlet chamber and inlet chamber at blood level an area that is significantly lower than State of the Art hard shell reservoirs. illustrates that the blood to air interface area of the combination of the complaint venous reservoir and venous air purger APC VR is unaffected by the blood volume in the venous bag and is much lower than State of the Art hard shell venous reservoirs. Thus at a blood level of 1 000 ml the area of the blood to air interface of the air purging chamber having the most preferred dimensions is only between 8 and 15 cmcompared to 180 cmto 305 cmfor State of the Art hard shell reservoir. At a blood level of 500 ml the area of the blood to gas interface of the air purging chamber remains between 8 cmand 15 cmas compared to an area from 78 cmto 305 cmfor the State of the Art hard shell venous reservoir shown in Table 1. This significant reduction in blood gas interface results in significant reduction in blood damage and should translate to better clinical outcome. also shows that the blood to air interface area for the stand alone venous air purger APC Compound is also a lower than that of the State of the Art venous reservoirs. The blood to air interface area for the former being no more than 50 cmat a volume of 500 ml and no more than 80 cmat a volume of 800 ml.

Defoamer used to collapse foam formed by the air in the clean blood in chamber can be much smaller for example 20 in volume of the defoamer in filter of chamber . Inlet port of clean blood cardiotomy accepts clean blood and directs it to closed chamber formed at least partially by screen wall . Preferably chamber is angled as shown in a design that has the advantages described by the following example if the walls of inlet chamber are formed by screen then air is separated from the blood by having the blood flow across the lower portion of screen while air is removed along the top section of the screen. The pore size of screen is sufficiently small to assure that blood wicks and flows along wall till it reaches bottom or blood accumulating in chamber rather than dripping across the screen. This limits splashing and the previously described negative results associated with splashing. Defoamer located along the top section of screened chamber preferably does not contact blood flowing along the lower wall of chamber but is available to collapse blood foam rising to it. The filter for the clean blood is similar to that described in reference to inlet chamber shown in and with the exception that the inlet for chamber is at the top. Preferably only blood foam contacts defoamer while vented blood contacts the defoamer only when its level in chamber rises to the level of defoamer .

Channel forming the fluid communication between the bottom of the cardiotomy and the inlet to the air purger is preferably angled to reduce blood velocity as well as allow air bubbles to rise to the top of the moving column as explained in detail in reference to yet to be described channel shown in . The entrance to channel at the bottom of chamber is widened as indicated by in and a design that allows air bubbles in channel to separate from the flowing blood and escape and thereby limit the air volume trapped as clean blood intermittently flows down channel . Channel should have at least the top portion enlarged to an equivalent diameter greater than and preferably at least . Blood velocity in channel can also be reduced by structure that can be for example polyurethane foam as used for defoamer but without an antifoam agent. Reducing the blood velocity in channel reduces air bubbles entrapment especially at the level where the flowing vented blood combines with the blood at the lower level and foam formation in channel . To reduce air from venous blood entering channel lowest level of channel and lowest level of inlet channel are lower than level lab where channel and channel combine and the deaerated vented blood combines with the venous blood.

Chambers and are in fluid communication along their common top wall via always open channel and along their common floor via ports and . Ports and are in fluid communication for example via tubing that can be closed or opened with valve to allow or prevent flow of dirty blood into clean chamber and then to combine with the venous blood in chamber . As shown in valve is a sliding tubing clamp. Dirty blood accumulated in the chamber blood can be removed via port atop chamber through tubing with its open end at the bottom of chamber

Unique clinical advantages are provided by the combination of the two chambers that allow separating clean blood from dirty blood the ability to store dirty blood or combine it with the venous blood having an aggressive filter for the dirty blood and an air purger for the clean blood and reducing the volume of air that is dragged as the vented blood flows down channel . It should be clear that the filter for the clean blood consisting of screen and defoamer can also be fitted in channel formed by defoamer located at the top section of inlet chamber in a manner similar to that described in reference to vent chamber shown in and

The volume of chambers and can be between 1.0 and 1.5 liters but preferably the volume of clean blood chamber is greater than dirty chamber . This distribution provides a larger capacity to store venous blood that may overflow from venous reservoir without that blood contacting filter of dirty chamber

It should be understood that at least two of the three units air purging chamber compliant chamber and cardiotomy chamber can be combined to form a single unit. For example it is possible to combine just the cardiotomy and complaint chamber by having those two units share a common rigid wall as described in reference to but without the air purging chamber as shown by line drawing illustrated in . Since the unit illustrated in shares the same design for the clean and dirty blood chambers combination forming the cardiotomy reservoir as shown in only the deviations from the unit illustrated in are described. The combination unit consists of venous reservoir having at least one flexible wall and one rigid wall said walls sealed along their outside periphery to form closed complaint chamber much like compliant chamber previously described in reference to . Venous blood enters chamber via inlet port and exits via outlet port both preferably located along bottom of chamber . Air entrained in the venous blood is purged via air purging port located along the top most point in chamber and preferably in fluid communication with chambers and of clean and dirty cardiotomies respectfully. Fluid communication of the air side of the cardiotomies and the venous reservoir allows for air to escape to atmosphere or for equal vacuum to be applied to all three chambers through single exhaust port . To facilitate use channel preferably extends up to the top of the cardiotomy reservoir. Channel preferably is large in diameter e.g. ID to form a low resistance channel for air bubbles to move up the blood column in channel . Defoamer may be located along the top of compliant chamber and may also extend into air purging port shown as . Air sensor may also be added for the same purpose and function as previously described in reference to sensor in and . The addition of a defoamer to the top of compliant chamber and or air purging port is to aggressively collapse foam thereby reduce the large blood air interface associated with foam. This method also allows port to attach to a regulated vacuum source not shown to purge the air without the need to pump the foam out of chamber and without the need to have the foam blood exiting port to contact the aggressive filter of a cardiotomy reservoir.

The unit shown in does not have an air purger such as shown in . It therefore does incorporate a screen not shown between inlet port and outlet port .

The dual chamber cardiotomy reservoir atop the venous reservoir is almost identical to that described in reference to clean and dirty blood chambers shown in . It has one large chamber divided by separating wall into chamber for clean blood and chamber for dirty blood. Wall extends from the bottom to the top of chamber leaving a fluid communication between the top of chambers and . Since clean blood need not be kept out of closed compliant chamber then the volume of chamber need only be sufficient to accommodate the screened chamber used to deaerate and defoam the clean blood. Thus most of the volume in the cardiotomy can be assigned to chamber thereby maximizing the volume available for dirty blood at the expense of volume for the clean blood. If there is no need for additional blood holding capacity than that available in compliant chamber then the volume of chamber should be no more than 20 of the volume of chamber . Clean blood enters via port into clean chamber formed of screen wall that is sealed at its bottom. Defoamer positioned at the top section of chamber collapses foam in chamber . Clean blood flows through screen with the screen reducing the bubble size and air volume in the exiting clean blood. Similarly dirty blood enters via port into aggressive filter that also includes a defoaming agent. The filtered dirty blood flows into chamber where it can be stored or flow to chamber via port and . Ports and are in fluid communication via tubing that can be closed or opened with valve to allow or prevent the dirty blood to flow to clean chamber and then to combine with the venous blood in chamber . Blood in chamber flows down channel and combines with venous blood at inlet port . It is better that lowest vertical level of channel is lower than inlet port and that inlet port is bottom of chamber . This minimizes air from the venous blood rising into channel or air from channel rising up venous line via inlet port .

It should be obvious that it may be advantageous to have clean blood chamber larger than dirty blood for example for patients with a large blood volume that needs to be stored without it contacting the filter of the dirty blood.

As previously described during VAVD it is necessary to trap water vapor in the air exhausted from the venous cardiotomy reservoir that condenses on the cooler walls of the vacuum tubing and prevent the condensate from dripping back into the blood. and show another innovation a vapor trap incorporated into the reservoir designed for VAVD. For example bottom section of exhaust port extends below the top of chamber . The top of chamber is in fluid communication with the air space above clean chamber and dirty chamber and the bottom of chamber is in fluid communication with air chamber of venous reservoir . Thus any water condensate that drips down out of exhaust tube falls into and is trapped by chamber and eventually flows into air chamber of venous reservoir .

It should be understood that the description for gravity drainage i.e. no vacuum applied to any port where air is purged to atmosphere also applies to VAVD applications except atmosphere is changed to the vacuum applied.

As shown in to air purging chamber venous reservoir cardiotomy reservoir as well as channels and interconnecting these chambers are at least partially formed with common rigid plate a design that reduces manufacturing costs and simplifies setup. Thus for example rigid wall forms at least a part of the wall forming inlet channel of air purging chamber rigid wall forms at least one part of the wall forming outlet chamber of air purging chamber rigid wall forms at least a part of the wall forming compliant storage chamber rigid wall forms at least a part of channel connecting outlet chamber to compliant storage chamber rigid wall forms channel connecting chamber of cardiotomy to the bottom of inlet channel rigid wall forms at least one part of the wall forming chamber of cardiotomy . Common wall may also form channel connecting the top of outlet chamber to the top chamber of cardiotomy outlet port of compliant storage chamber as well as the numerous connectors atop cardiotomy reservoir .

It should be clear that rigid wall can have a matching clamshell like mirror image structure that fits to complete the walls required to form the aforementioned chambers and channels. Other designs include having outlet chamber and cardiotomy chamber with its divider and concave section injected molded and then fitted with top covers that incorporate ports such as air port or inlet port shown in

The second safety feature is a structure that prevents condensate water from overflowing into outlet blood chamber via fluid channel . This is achieved by having bottom of air purge port extend below channel . Thus should water rise in vapor trap chamber it would reach bottom of outlet port and be sucked out by the vacuum source thereby preventing water from reaching fluid channel and avoiding water from overflowing into outlet blood chamber of the reservoir.

The vapor trap chamber can be formed by injection molding as a part of either the inlet blood chamber or the outlet blood chambers of the venous reservoir or as part of the cardiotomy. For example a vapor trap chamber of this invention can be integrated into enclosed inlet chamber 8 or enclosed outlet chamber 9 of combined cardiotomy and venous blood reservoir 1 of Thor s 705 venous reservoir shown in his FIG. 1. This can be achieved by retooling the molds forming Thor s reservoir. Similarly a vapor trap chamber of this invention can be integrated into either venous reservoir 3 or cardiotomy reservoir 4 of Fini s 270 combined venous blood reservoir and a cardiotomy reservoir shown in his FIG. 1. And in yet another example a vapor trap can be incorporated into any one of chambers 3 10a 10b or 26 shown in FIGS. 4a 4b and 4c in Tamari s pending EPO patent application number 05 826 776.6 2320 and published as WO 2006 057650. For each of the aforementioned examples the vapor trap is structured to assure that accumulated water condensate cannot overflow into the blood chamber sharing a wall with the vapor trap.

The structures of and can be manufactured by means well known in the art in the field of medical devices and as exemplified by aforementioned Nogawa s Fini s and Thor s reservoirs.

It should be understood that the venous blood reservoir can be used for gravity drainage by simply not applying vacuum to air purging port of vapor trap chamber .

As shown dirty blood is filtered in sucker chamber wherein the dirty blood enters inlet chamber via inlet port and is filtered as it crosses polyester felt . Foam associated with the incoming sucker blood is defoamed by defoamer . The dirty blood can accumulate in outlet chamber or at the user s choice by opening valve flow out of port located at the bottom of chamber into port located at the bottom of chamber . Valve allows blood from the dirty chamber to flow across wall a wall common to both chambers and and to combine with the clean blood in chamber . The top of wall separating chambers and incorporates channel that allows blood from either chamber should one fill up to overflow into the other chamber.

Clean blood is filtered in clean blood chamber wherein the clean blood enters inlet chamber via inlet port hits inclined plane that provides a fluid path that minimizes splashing of the clean blood as it flows to the bottom of chamber . The clean blood then flows along channel to bottom of and then flows across defoamer into venous inlet chamber where it combines with the venous blood. Wall extending clockwise from to directs the blood in chamber towards the wall free section i.e. going counterclockwise from point to where blood flow contacts outside surface of defoamer crossing defoamer and flowing along its inside surface and then distributing downward along lower inclined screen . The incline reduces splashing and promotes air bubbles to float to the blood air interface where they are purged via outlet port .

Channel has a horizontal cross sectional area that is 2 to 8 times smaller than that of chamber . That smaller cross sectional area reduces the blood to air interface area and operating volume. Further the depth of channel shown as hin avails a larger surface area of defoamer for blood flow from chamber to chamber . The larger defoamer area in channel decreases the resistance across the defoamer and renders the defoamer to be more effective in defoaming the clean blood especially at high flow rates with little or no increase in blood to air interface area and operating volume. Preferably depth his between 0.5 and 4 

Channel shown in and forms a fluid communication between top of venous outlet chamber and clean blood chamber . The top of tube preferably is located above channel and serves two purposes. First it allows air trapped at the top of outlet chamber to escape into chamber . Second should screen plug up inhibiting blood flow across screen and causing venous blood to accumulate in inlet chamber . The blood then rises into chamber up to the open top of channel where it is diverted to bypass the screen and flow from chamber directly to venous outlet chamber . Thus channel allows the user to keep pumping in an emergency. In general the walls of sucker chamber and clean blood chamber are rigid.

Venous inlet chamber having a top and a bottom is formed by screen a screen that separates venous inlet chamber from venous outlet chamber and forms a fluid communication between the venous inlet and outlet chambers allowing blood to cross while inhibiting bubbles from crossing. Venous outlet chamber is the annular space formed by wall and screen wall . Venous blood enters inlet port and is directed via tube to just above the bottom of venous inlet chamber . Venous blood flows across screen a screen that inhibits bubbles from crossing thereby preventing bubbles from reaching venous outlet chamber and venous outlet port .

It should be noted that preferably screen is sloped off the vertical by angle an angle that is preferably between 10 and 40 degrees. The slope directs clean blood coming from channel to flow along the inside of the lower section of wall thereby providing a fluid path that minimizes splashing where the clean blood combines with the venous blood at venous blood level . The slope also allow bubbles entering venous inlet chamber to preferentially float upward towards the higher screen section opposite the lower screen section . This is illustrated by bubbles moving upward along the higher inside surface of screen . Thus the slope of angle separates the clean blood flowing downward along the inside lower surface and the air moving upward along inside higher surface a separation that reduces mixing of blood with air and thereby reduces formation of harmful blood foam. Any foam formed due to venous air bubbling upward in venous inlet chamber is defoamed by inside surface of defoamer . Channel shown in provides a fluid path for the foam to move up along inside surface

In the permutation described in reference to and defoamer serves three functions it defoams venous blood along its inside surface see and it defoams clean blood along its outside as well as when the blood transverses from the outside surface to the inside surface and it serves to distribute the flow from chamber along the inside of screen wall

It should be further understood that the blood reservoir can be venous reservoir a cardiotomy reservoir of as described above a venous and cardiotomy reservoir combination.

5 Deaerates vented clean blood without that blood contacting the filter of dirty blood cardiotomy by incorporating an innovative two chamber cardiotomy reservoir.

12 Its air purging chamber can be used with or without its compliant chamber allowing lower operating volume.

It should be understood that a comprehensive description of each of the applications of the invention is beyond the scope of a patent application and therefore the aforementioned descriptions are given as illustrations and should not be used to limit the intent spirit or scope of the invention.

