---

title: Method and system for electronic management of recruiting
abstract: A terminal may be configured to display a list of recruiting events. In response to selection of one of the recruiting events, the terminal may be configured to display a list of a plurality of candidates associated with the selected one of the recruiting events. The terminal may be configured to select one of said candidates from the list of candidates based on an identifier read, by the terminal, from a computing device associated with the selected candidate. The terminal may be configured to, subsequent to the selection of the candidate, display a profile of the selected candidate. The terminal may be configured to display an interactive form via which a user of the terminal can input an assessment of the selected particular candidate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572000&OS=08572000&RS=08572000
owner: Recsolu LLC
number: 08572000
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 683 496 entitled Method and System for Electronic Management of Recruiting and filed on Aug. 15 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 674 258 entitled Method and System for Electronic Management of Recruiting and filed on Jul. 20 2012.

Each of the above identified applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to recruiting management. More specifically to a method and system for electronic management of recruiting.

Conventional methods and systems for managing recruiting processes can be inefficient and inconvenient. Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

A method and or system is provided for electronic management of recruiting substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or. As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms and module refer to functions than can be performed by one or more circuits. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein list is used generically to describe arrangements of data such as lists matrices arrays tables etc. As utilized herein a terminal device circuit etc. is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

The network may comprise one or more servers and one or more routers switches cables and or other network plumbing. The server s may comprise a processing circuit a memory circuit and a networking circuit .

The processing circuit may for example comprise one or more single or multi core central processing units CPUs application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or a field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . The processing circuit may be configured to effectuate the operation of the server s in which it resides by executing lines of code stored in the corresponding one of the memory circuits . The lines of code may include an operating system and one or more applications. Examples of such applications include the database application and the server application . One or more of the processes described below in this disclosure may result from such code being executed by the processing circuit .

The database application may comprise code for managing recruiting data stored in memory and for generating a user interface via which the data may be stored to memory retrieved from memory organized searched and or otherwise managed. The user interface may for example be served to candidate and or recruiter terminals via the server application . For example database queries generated by the recruiting app the browser and or the recruiting application may be relayed to the database application via the server application and the results of the queries may be returned to the app the application or the browser via the server application .

The server application may comprise code for performing the functions of a web and or application server. In this regard the server s running the server application may provide services and or content to networked client devices such as terminals and via the use of one or more protocols e.g. HTTP and or application programming interfaces APIs .

The memory circuit may for example comprise non volatile memory volatile memory read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory magnetic storage and or any other suitable memory. The memory circuit may comprise program memory run time memory and mass storage. Program memory may store lines of code executable by the processing circuit to effectuate operation of the operating system and one or more applications. Runtime memory may store data generated and or used during execution of the OS and or applications. Mass storage may store any number and or types of data including candidate profile data organization profile data documents forms and or any other type of data generated and or used during recruiting processes. Data stored in mass storage may be managed via the database application .

The networking circuit may comprise for example one or more network interface cards NICs and may be configured to communicate over one or more network links in accordance with one or more network protocols such as for example Wi Fi LTE wired Ethernet DOCSIS DSL Fiber Channel Protocol and or any other suitable protocol.

Each of the candidate terminals and and each of the recruiter terminals and comprises a respective one of processing circuits a respective one of networking circuits a respective one of user input devices and a respective one of memory circuits . Each of the terminals and may be for example a portable terminal such as a desktop PC or a mobile terminal such as a smartphone a tablet computer a notebook computer or any other suitable computing device. 

Each of the processing circuits may for example comprise a single or multi core central processing unit CPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or a field programmable gate array FPGA . Each of the processing circuits may be configured to effectuate operation of the terminal in which it resides by executing lines of code stored in the corresponding one of the memory circuits . The lines of code may include an operating system and one or more applications. Examples of such applications include the recruiting applications and recruiting applications and and the web browser applications . Processes described below in the remainder of this disclosure may be the result of such code being executed by one or more processing circuits 

Each of the memory circuits may for example comprise non volatile memory volatile memory read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory magnetic storage and or any other suitable memory. Each of the memory circuits may comprise program memory run time memory and mass storage. Program memory may store lines of code executable by the processing circuits to effectuate operation of the operating system and one or more applications. Runtime memory may store data generated and or used during execution of the OS and or applications. Mass storage may store any number and or types of data including candidate profile data organization profile data documents forms and or any other type of data generated and or used during recruiting processes.

Each of the networking circuits may be configured to communicate over one or more network links in accordance with one or more network protocols such as for example Wi Fi LTE wired Ethernet DOCSIS DSL Fiber Channel Protocol and or any other suitable protocol.

The input devices may comprise for example a mouse a touchpad a motion sensor a trackball a voice recognition device a keyboard and or any other suitable input device with accompanying circuitry that enables a user to interact with the respective terminal or

Each of the instances and of the recruiting application may comprise code that when executed results in the performance of one or more of the processes described in this disclosure. The process es may include for example providing a candidate side user interface processing of recruiting data and or communications among components of the recruiting system e.g. via one or more web based application programming interfaces . The process es may be performed by the candidate terminal on which the code is executed by the server s by a recruiter terminal and or by a combination thereof.

Each of the instances and of the recruiting application may comprise code that when executed results in the performance of one or more of the processes described in this disclosure. The process es may include for example providing an organization side user interface processing of recruiting data and or communications among components of the recruiting system e.g. via one or more web based application programming interfaces . The process es may be performed by the recruiter terminal on which the code is executed by the server s by a candidate terminal and or by a combination thereof.

Each of the instances of the web browser application may comprise code that when executed enables accessing a web based interface served by the server s . For example the server s may serve an HTML and or scripting language based website that is accessible via the web browser application . Communications between the web browser and the server s may result in the performance of one or more of the processes described in this disclosure. The process es may include for example providing an organization side user interface providing a candidate side user interface processing of recruiting data and or communications among components of the recruiting system e.g. via one or more web based application programming interfaces . The process es may comprise client side processes e.g. processes performed on the candidate or recruiter terminal by the web browser and or its plug ins and or server side processes e.g. processes performed on the server s by the server application .

The recruiting terminal may initialize to a state in which a login window is displayed. If Recruiter enters valid login credentials then the state of the terminal changes to a state in which a schedule window is displayed. An example schedule window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact e.g. by touching clicking typing in etc. with one or more interface elements e.g. buttons sliders drop down menus etc. of the schedule window to navigate to a state in which a map function of the terminal is launched. In the state Recruiter may for example view street level maps and or indoor maps of recruiting events.

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the schedule window to navigate to a state in which a resources or tools window is displayed. The resources window may provide for example documents e.g. digitally executable waivers confidentiality agreements etc. media e.g. Organization s promotional and or orientation videos and or other information which Recruiter may need or desire to access during the recruiting event. For example a link to a document e.g. a confidentiality agreement waiver etc. requiring a candidate s signature may be provided in the resources window and upon interacting with the link the document may be brought up for the candidate to review and for the candidate to digitally sign e.g. write a signature with a stylus on a touchscreen provide a finger print via an optical reader take a picture of his her face type in a private key etc. . The documents media and or other resources available may be specific to Organization Recruiter and or the particular event. That is different resources may be available depending on the organization the event and or the recruiter logged in to the terminal

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the schedule window to navigate to the state in which an event wrap up window is displayed. An example event wrap up window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the schedule window to navigate to the state in which an event detail window is displayed. An example event detail window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the schedule window to navigate to state in which a reminders window is displayed. The reminders window may display a task list and or calendar view of upcoming recruiting related events appointments deadlines etc. Via interface elements of the reminders window Recruiter may be enabled to view sort filter set clear and or otherwise manage reminders.

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the schedule window to navigate to state in which an interactions list window may be displayed. An example interactions list window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the wrap up window to navigate to state in which an event feedback window is displayed. The event feedback window may provide fillable forms surveys and or other user interface elements for collecting information about the recruiting event from the recruiters who attended the event. Such information may be stored e.g. in memory and or memory for later generating various event and or recruiting related metrics e.g. to assess Recruiter performance cost effectiveness of recruiting processes etc. 

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the wrap up window to navigate to state in which an expense report window is displayed. The expense report window may provide fillable forms and or other user interface elements for collecting expense reports to enable reimbursement as well analysis and management of recruiting budgets cost effectiveness etc.

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the event detail window to navigate to state in which a candidate list window is displayed. An example candidate list window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the event detail window to navigate to state in which a candidate profile window is displayed. An example candidate profile window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the interactions list window to navigate to state in which an interaction details window is displayed. Interface elements of the interactions detail window may enable Recruiter to view and or edit e.g. add contact information a photo type a note etc. past interactions with one or more people e.g. candidates other recruiters organization members employees etc. .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the candidate profile window to navigate to state in which a candidate documents window is displayed. An example candidate documents window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the candidate profile window to navigate to state in which a candidate interactions window is displayed. An example candidate interactions window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the candidate list window to navigate to state in which a candidate scan search window is displayed. While in state the terminal may be configured to scan e.g. optically read a QR code wirelessly read an RFID tag and or receive a wireless signature a candidate terminal e.g. terminal to recover a unique identifier and then search a database of candidates e.g. stored in memory and or memory for a candidate associated with the unique identifier. Additionally or alternatively Recruiter can manually enter candidate information and search for a database record matching the entered information. If a matching record is found the state of the terminal proceeds to state in which a candidate r sum CV window is displayed but if no matching record is found the state of the terminal returns to state .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the candidate list window to manually select a candidate Candidate from the list. Upon selection of Candidate the state of the terminal proceeds to state in which a candidate r sum CV window is displayed. An example candidate r sum CV window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the candidate list window to navigate to state in which an add candidate window is displayed. Interface elements of the add candidate window may enable entering candidate information to add a new candidate to the list of candidates. Upon completion of entering the candidate information the state of the terminal may return to the state .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the r sum CV window to navigate to state in which a r sum CV capture add window is displayed. While in the state the Recruiter may be enabled to obtain Candidate s r sum CV and save the r sum CV to memory such that it is associated with Candidate in memory. The r sum CV may be obtained by for example scanning a paper copy taking a photo of a paper copy receiving it via a wired or wireless connection to a candidate terminal and or downloading it from the server s and or another web host.

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the r sum CV window to navigate to state in which a schedule interview s window is displayed. Example schedule interview windows are described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the r sum CV window to navigate to state in which a scratchpad window is displayed. An example scratchpad window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the r sum CV window to navigate to state in which an assessments list window is displayed. An example assessments list window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the r sum CV window to navigate to state in which a view assessment detail window is displayed. An example view assessment detail window is described below with reference to .

While in the state Recruiter may interact with one or more interface elements of the r sum CV window to navigate to state in which a fill assessment window is displayed. An example fill assessment window is described below with reference to .

The interface elements and enable navigating between the scheduling window a map window an interactions list window and a resources window.

Selection of the interface element e.g. as a result of being clicked with a mouse or tapped on a touchscreen may bring up a reminders window. The reminders window may in turn display a task list and or calendar view of upcoming recruiting related events appointments deadlines etc. and may enable viewing sorting filtering setting clearing and or otherwise managing reminders.

Selection of the interface element may bring up an event wrap up window such as the one described below with reference to . The interface element comprises a numerical field indicating how many events are waiting to be wrapped up by the user of the terminal

The interface elements may each correspond to a filter to be applied to the list of events to determine which events are displayed in the list. In the example implementation the filters include nearby events e.g. based on GNSS coordinates and or other location information today s events upcoming events and all events. The underlying data records used to populate the list may be stored in local memory and or in the memory of the server s .

Each of the elements comprises a respective one of numerical fields where the numerical fields give a preview of how many events correspond to such a filter. The numbers shown are arbitrary for ease and clarity of description and not intended to be limiting. In the example scenario depicted element is selected as indicated by the heavy line and six upcoming events each corresponding to one of the list entries are displayed in the list.

Each of the list entries corresponds to an event that meets the currently selected filter criteria upcoming events in the scenario depicted . Each of list entries i being an integer between 1 and 6 comprises interface elements and .

Selection of the interface element may cause candidate profiles resources and or other data associated with the event i to be downloaded to the terminal from the server s . In this manner any and or all data needed for an event may be stored locally on the terminal for offline access. Where memory on the terminal is limited and or where the terminal is guaranteed network access for the duration of the event such downloading may be unnecessary and or undesirable. Where the terminal does operate in an offline mode data in the memory and data in the memory may be occasionally e.g. upon establishment of a network connection and or upon request and or periodically be synchronized such that data on both the terminal and the server s remains up to date to the extent possible and or desired. Maintaining the data on the server s up to date may enable other recruiting terminals and or candidate terminals to access the data at or near real time where such other terminals have the appropriate permissions to access such data .

Selection of the interface element may bring up a calendar window which may contain the logged in user s calendar information calendar information for other members of the entity for which the logged in user is recruiting calendar information for candidates etc. The calendar window may be similar to link to or be a sub or superset of the interview scheduling window described below with reference to .

The interface element is a profile picture for Event . The picture may for example have been selected by an event coordinator via an event administration interface. The interface element may comprise a brief description of Event . For example the interface element may comprise the name date and location of Event .

Each of the interface elements M being an arbitrary integer may be generated from underlying candidate data records stored in local memory and or in the memory of the server s . Each of the interface elements corresponds to a candidate who meets the selected filtering criteria established via interface element . Thus in the scenario depicted M candidates meet the current filtering criteria. The elements may be sorted by for example a cultural fit score discussed in more detail below and or by any other field of information in the underlying data records stored in memory. As an example interface element may enable filtering by candidates who registered for Event candidates who attended or are in attendance at Event candidates who have been seen by Recruiter or another recruiter working for Organization and candidates who after being screened have been invited for further screening interviewing with Organization.

Each element m being an integer between 1 and M may comprise a caption that provides quick glance information e.g. name college major cultural fit with Organization and or any other suitable information that may inform Recruiter as to which candidate is which. Selection of the element may bring up the candidate profile window shown in .

The interface element is a profile picture for Candidate . The picture may for example have been uploaded by Candidate or taken of Candidate at Event or a previous event.

The interface element may comprise a biography of Candidate . The biography may for example have been uploaded to the server s by Candidate prior to Event and or scanned or typed into a registration terminal at Event .

The interface element may comprise one or more scores that indicate a compatibility between Candidate and Organization between Candidate and one or more of Organization s open requisitions e.g. open jobs within an Employer and or positions within an association and or between Candidate and Recruiter. In an example implementation the score s may be based on a cultural fit as described in more detail below with reference to for example .

Selection of the interface element may bring up an online profile of Candidate . An example online profile is described below with reference to .

The interface element may comprise contact info for Candidate . Selection of information in the interface element may bring up an appropriate application for contacting Candidate . For example in response to selection of an email link in the interface element an e mail app may open on the recruiting terminal. As another example selection of a messaging link in the interface element a messaging window may appear in which Recruiter can enter the message. Clicking send may then for example cause the message to be delivered via a method selected by Candidate . Example methods include email SMS and a messaging component of Candidate s online profile.

The interface elements and provide for navigating between the window of the window of and window of .

Each of the interface elements where three is an arbitrary number chosen for ease and clarity of description and not intended to be limiting corresponds to an interaction with Candidate . An interaction could be for example a formal or informal meeting an interview a phone call an email etc.

Each of the interface elements comprises a caption that provides at a glance information e.g. date and location to aid Recruiter in determining which interaction is which. Each interface elements i being an integer between 1 and 3 in the depicted example comprises an interface element selection of which brings up an interaction details window which may provide more in depth information about interaction i with candidate . Such information may for example include Candidate profile information recruiting event profile information if interaction i was a recruiting event a map of the location of interaction i and notes taken during interaction i by Recruiter or whichever agent of Organization interacted with Candidate during interaction i.

Each of the interface elements may be generated from candidate data records stored in the memory and or the memory . The interactions data may have been manually entered by a user of a recruiting terminal or other computing device and or may have been automatically generated. Automatic generation of an interaction may occur for example in response to a recruiting terminal coming within a certain distance e.g. Bluetooth range Wi Fi range an NFC tap etc. of a candidate terminal associated with Candidate .

Selection of the interface element may bring up a window for manual entry of a new interaction with Candidate .

Selection of the interface element may bring up a window for sending a message e.g. email SMS inter profile message etc. to the candidate. Information about the previous interactions with the candidate may be automatically included or suggested for inclusion in the message to refresh the candidate s memory as to the identity of the message sender. Additionally or alternatively the candidate s messaging client may automatically search the candidate s interactions upon receiving the message and display interactions with the message sender alongside the message e.g where the sender is a recruiter the date and location that candidate met with the recruiter may be presented to the candidate along with the message .

Selection of the interface element where i is an integer between 1 and 2 may bring up a window in which a corresponding one of Candidate s r sum CV is displayed e.g. as a text file or as a .pdf . The different versions of Candidate s r sum CV may correspond for example to different times and or to different requisitions or position sought.

Selection of the interface element where i is an integer between 1 and 2 may bring up a window in which a corresponding one of Candidate s publications is displayed e.g. as a text file or as a .pdf .

Selection of the interface element where i is an integer between 1 and 2 may bring up a window in which a corresponding one of Candidate s forms is displayed e.g. as a text file or as a .pdf . One or more of the forms may be for example a waiver a confidentiality agreement or some other document executed by Candidate and scanned into the electronic recruiting system. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the forms may be an assessment form a performance review a note or some other document pertaining to candidate generated by Recruiter and or another agent of Organization.

Each interface element where i an integer between 1 and 4 and 4 was arbitrarily chosen for ease and clarity of description may be similar to one of the interface elements . Each interface element where i an integer between 1 and 4 and 4 was arbitrarily chosen for ease and clarity of description may be similar to one of the interface elements . Each interface element where i an integer between 1 and 4 and 4 was arbitrarily chosen for ease and clarity of description may be similar the interface element . The interface element may be similar to the interface element .

Each of the interface elements and correspond to an event to be wrapped up. Selection of the interface element where i is an integer between 1 and 2 in the depicted example may bring up a window in which Recruiter can enter feedback about the corresponding event. Such feedback may be in the form of for example a questionnaire. Selection of the interface element where i is an integer between 1 and 2 in the depicted example may bring up a window in which Recruiter can enter an expense report for the corresponding event. By digitally capturing the expense report information budgeting may be performed in or near real time and metrics such as cost effectiveness of events may be analyzed.

Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be populated by pulling the underlying information from the database s via an API.

Each of the interface elements may be generated from underlying candidate data records stored in local memory and or in the memory of the server s . Each of the interface elements corresponds to a candidate who is associated with Event and that meets the selected filtering criteria established using interface element . Thus in the scenario depicted five candidates meet the current filtering criteria where five was arbitrarily selected for ease and clarity of description and is not intended to be limiting . The elements may be sorted by for example a cultural fit score discussed in more detail below and or by any other field of information in the underlying data records stored in memory. As an example interface element may enable filtering by candidates who registered for Event candidates who attended or are in attendance at Event candidates who have been seen by Recruiter or another recruiter working for Organization and candidates who after being screened have been invited for further screening interviewing with Organization.

Selection of the interface element may bring up a window which may enable searching for a particular candidate among the list of candidates corresponding to elements . The search may be performed based on a unique identifier of the particular candidate which may be manually entered by Recruiter e.g. a name mobile phone number email address etc. and or may be entered via an electronic scanning or reading of an article associated with the particular candidate. For example a barcode or QR code uniquely associated with the particular candidate may be read from the candidate s badge or smartphone. As another example a unique ID may be read via Bluetooth Wi Fi NFC USB and or any other suitable communication protocol.

Selection of the interface element may bring up a window via which a candidate can be manually entered e.g. after not being found via a search scan .

The interface element may display Candidate s r sum CV e.g. as a text file or .pdf . Selection of the interface element may bring up a window for adding a r sum CV for Candidate to the system e.g. a second r sum CV tailored for different field or position . The r sum CV may be added by for example scanning a paper copy or taking a picture of a paper copy with a camera of the terminal

The interface elements and enable navigating between the window an assessments window a scratch pad window and a schedule interview window .

The interface element may provide a composite score e.g. aggregate mean and or median score for the candidate based on a plurality of previously completed assessments of the candidate. In an example implementation a side by side comparison of such assessments e.g. from various recruiters used in generating the composite score may be viewable on the terminal

Each of the interface elements where the number of instances was arbitrarily chosen as three for ease and clarity of description and is not intended to be limiting corresponds to a completed or ongoing assessment of Candidate . Each of the assessment forms may have been completed or may be in the process of being completed by Recruiter and or by another member of Organization where the proper permissions are in place for Recruiter to view such assessment forms . Example assessment forms are described below with respect to .

Each of the interface elements comprises a caption that provides at a glance information e.g. assessor date and location to aid Recruiter in determining which assessment form is which. Each interface elements i being an integer between 1 and 3 comprises an interface element selection of which brings up an assessment form window such as described below with respect to .

The interface element may enable selection of criteria for filtering and or sorting the assessment forms listed in the window . For example assessment forms may be filtered by date by assessor etc.

Each of the interface elements and where the number of instances was arbitrarily chosen as two for ease and convenience of description and is not intended to be limiting may bring up an assessment form such as the one described below with reference to . Where there are multiple instances of the interface element as in each form may correspond to a different assessment form where different forms may be customized for different requisitions positions for different recruiters for different candidates and or for different recruiting events.

The caption may comprise information such as Assessor s name Candidate s name the date of the assessment the purpose of the assessment e.g. the requisition position for which candidate was being considered etc.

Each of the assessment fields and where the number of instances was arbitrarily chosen as two for ease and convenience of description and is not intended to be limiting may comprise a question asked of Candidate and Assessor s assessment e.g. in the form a numerical rating from for example 1 to 5 of Candidate s response to that question.

Each of the assessment fields and where the number of instances was arbitrarily chosen as two for ease and convenience of description and is not intended to be limiting may comprise a question asked of Candidate and Candidate s response to the question. The candidate s response may be for example typed in by Assessor during discussion with Candidate typed in by Candidate on the recruiter terminal and or on a candidate terminal and subsequently communicated to the recruiter terminal and or recorded via a microphone of the recruiter terminal

Each of the assessment fields and where the number of instances was arbitrarily chosen as two for ease and convenience of description and is not intended to be limiting may comprise a characteristic e.g. good leadership motivated good time management outgoing well spoken etc. and the assessor s assessment e.g. in the form a numerical rating from for example 1 to 5 of the extent to which the candidate possesses such characteristic.

Each of the questions characteristics in fields and may have been selected from a repository of questions either manually by Assessor and or algorithmically by the terminal and or server s based on various parameters. Example parameters include a profile of Candidate a profile of Assessor the requisition position for which Candidate was assessed the event at which Candidate was assessed previously selected questions characteristics in this form and or in a previous form and or answers assessments to of previous questions characteristics in this form or in a previous form . Information on which the question characteristic selection was based may be sourced from a profile of Candidate and or another candidate s profile a profile of Organization and or another organization s profile and or a profile of the event at which the assessment form was completed. Examples of information found in such profiles are described below with reference to B A B A and B.

The repository of questions and characteristics from which the questions and characteristics are selected may be questions generated by the assessor and or other assessors within the Organization. For example when an assessor generates a new question for a form that question may be stored into the repository and the assessor may be prompted to enter context information about who what where when why and or how the question characteristic is being used. In this manner a sharing e.g. intra and or inter organization sharing depending on permissions of assessment questions characteristics and context information about those questions characteristics e.g. perceived merits deficiencies recommended use scenarios etc. may be enabled by the electronic recruiting system. Such sharing may lead to highly customized candidate assessments that are more effective and efficient in identifying the best candidates.

Also the assessment questions characteristics may be assessed to determine their effectiveness and deleted refined etc. as necessary . For example after using a particular question characteristic in assessing a candidate Recruiter may be prompted e.g. via a message to Recruiter s profile in the electronic recruiting system to provide feedback on whether Recruiter believed the question characteristics to be effective in determining whether the candidate was a good fit. As another example when a candidate assessed based on a particular question characteristic is subsequently hired the effectiveness of that particular question characteristic may be assessed based on the candidate s subsequent performance reviews.

As discussed above the questions characteristics of the form shown in may be customized for this particular assessment of this particular candidate Candidate by this particular assessor Recruiter . The customization may have been prior to Recruiter selecting in Window the form and or may occur during completion of the form. The questions characteristics may have been selected based on for example the field in which Candidate is seeking a position Candidate s cultural fit with Organization Candidate s past experience Candidate s purported skills or expertise Recruiters technical and or employment background and or any characteristics of Recruiter Candidate and or Organization deemed applicable to effective assessment. Where the questions characteristics are dynamically selected during completion of the form a subsequent question may be selected on a previous question and or response assessment provided for a previous question characteristic. For example question may be selected based on the question that was selected for question and or the response to question provided in interface element . In this manner follow up questions customized to the ongoing assessment may be selected by Recruiter and or suggested by the electronic recruiting system.

When a note is generated and subsequently saved to memory using the note taking window the resulting note may be associated with one or more candidates organizations recruiters and or events such that the note may be accessible from various windows and or in various ways from the recruiting terminal . Which candidate s organization s recruiter s and or event s a note is associated with may be selected by the user creating the note and or may be automatically determined based on context information such as for example who is logged into the recruiter terminal the date and time the window from which the note taking window was opened etc.

For example where a first recruiter of a first organization and a second recruiter of a second organization each want to interact with candidate i during the same timeslot on the same day the system may schedule candidate i to interact with the recruiter assigned a higher priority by candidate i the organization assigned a higher priority by candidate i the organization for which candidate i is a better cultural fit and or based on some combination of these and or other factors.

The preceding paragraph described an example implementation in which the candidates and Recruiter s calendar are taken into account when setting Recruiter s calendar. In another implementation the calendars of other Recruiters may also be taken into account. For example each recruiter of each organization and each candidate participating in a recruiting event may submit their desired interactions along with a priority level of those interactions. Once all submissions are submitted e.g. at a pre determined deadline set by the event the recruiting system may algorithmically populate the calendars of all recruiters and candidates in an attempt to maximize the number of candidates that get to interact with their preferred organizations and or to maximize the number of preferred candidates that recruiters get to interact with. Such automated scheduling may help minimize scheduling conflicts as compared to the candidates and recruiters manually setting their calendars.

Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be populated by pulling the underlying information from the database s via an API.

In block it is determined whether a candidate associated with the read identifier has been found in the candidate list. If a candidate associated with the read identifier is found the process proceeds to block . If no candidate associated with the read identifier is found then in block a window for adding a candidate and associating that candidate with the read identifier is displayed. In block the candidate s information is entered and the candidate is added to the candidate list and may be subsequently uploaded to the server s .

In block a profile and or r sum CV of the selected candidate along with interface elements for viewing inputting assessments of the selected candidate and or for scheduling an interaction e.g. interview with the selected candidate may be displayed and or made accessible to Recruiter. If Recruiter selects an interface element e.g. to view and or input an assessment of the selected candidate then the process advances to block which is described below with reference to . If Recruiter selects an interface element e.g. to schedule an interaction e.g. an interview with the selected candidate then the process advances to block which is described below with reference to .

Referring to in block a window for selecting completed and ongoing assessment forms and or for selecting a blank assessment form for inputting a new assessment of the selected candidate e.g. window in is displayed. If Recruiter selects an interface element corresponding to a blank assessment form e.g. element then the process advances to block . In block an assessment form such as the form described above with reference to is displayed and Recruiter inputs his her assessment of the selected candidate using the interface elements of the form. In instances where the information is input to the assessment form while the terminal does not have a network connection the completed assessment form may be stored locally on the terminal and uploaded to the server s upon the terminal establishing a network connection. Where the terminal does have a network connection while the assessment form is being filled out the information input to the form may be uploaded to the server s and or shared to other recruiting terminals in or near real time where the appropriate permissions are in place .

Returning to block if Recruiter selects an interface element e.g. element corresponding to an assessment form that was previously completed or is currently being filled out on another recruiting terminal then the process advances to block . In block a completed or in progress assessment form such as the form described above with reference to is displayed. An in progress assessment form may be viewable on the terminal where there is an existing network connection s that connect the terminal to the terminal on which the assessment form is being filled out. Where the assessment form is in progress and being filled out by another recruiter Recruiter may or may not have permission to input information into the form or override information input by the other recruiter.

Referring to in block an interface element comprising the interviewer s event calendar is displayed on the recruiting terminal. The interviewer may be Recruiter or may be another member of Organization. In block an interface element corresponding to the selected candidate is dragged onto the calendar interface element to a day and or event for which the interview is to be scheduled. In block the interviewer s calendar and the selected candidate s calendar which may be stored on the recruiter terminal and or on the server s may be checked to determine a timeslot that works for both. Timeslots meeting such criteria may be presented and the Recruiter may select one or more of them to suggest to the selected candidate. In response to the selection of the timeslot s an invitation may be sent to the selected candidate. In block the selected candidate may accept the invitation for one of the timeslots. In block both the interviewer s calendar and the selected candidate s calendar may be updated to reflect the newly scheduled interview.

Each of candidate terminals may be substantially similar to one of the candidate terminals and described above with reference to . Each of the recruiter terminals may be substantially similar to one of the recruiter terminals and described above with reference to .

Each of the sensors may comprise circuitry configured to wirelessly detect the presence and or location of recruiting terminals candidate terminals and or other computing devices. Each of the sensors may for example passively listen to Wi Fi and or other wireless network channels to detect computing devices communicating on those channels. Upon detecting a computing device e.g. a candidate terminal the sensors where i is an integer between 1 and 7 may log the presence of the device by storing a unique identifier e.g. a MAC address and or SIM card serial number of the computing device to memory e.g. uploading to memory . The sensors of the detected computing device may additionally determine and subsequently log in memory the location of the detected computing device. Location of devices at the event may be determined by for example triangulation based on which of the sensors detected which communications from the computing device at which time and or based on signal strength s from the detected computing device incident on one or more of the sensors . Other methods of indoor navigation may be used in addition to or instead of the location determination based on sensors .

Each of the check in terminals may comprise circuitry configured to log candidate and or recruiter terminals as being present in the immediate vicinity of the check in terminal. For example as candidates and or recruiters enter the event they may stop by the check in booth and allow the check in terminal to scan their respective candidate and recruiter terminals. Upon such a scan the terminal may update an event roster which may be stored on the server s and may be accessible by other candidates recruiters and or event administrators. As another example as candidates stop by Organization B s booth they may present their respective candidate terminals for scanning by check in terminal . Such scans may be used for example to maintain a waiting list for candidates seeking to talk with recruiters of Organization B for communicating candidate information to Organization B and or for communicating Organization B information to the candidates. In an example implementation each of the check in terminals may be a recruiter terminal that has been configured into a check in terminal mode in which only limited functions of the recruiter terminal are accessible until an administrator of the terminal changes the configuration.

To illustrate at the time instant shown in information from the sensors may be used to determine that two recruiter terminals and and three candidate terminals are at the booth that two recruiter terminals and and only one candidate terminal are at booth and that two recruiter terminals and and only one candidate terminal are at booth . Additionally historical information from the sensors may be used to determine where the recruiter terminals and or candidate terminals were previously e.g. which booths candidates previously visited . Information from the sensors may be used by event administrators to for example distribute e.g. through notification messages to candidate terminals attendees with a goal of reducing booth wait times and increasing interactions overall. Information from the sensors may be used by event recruiters to for example determine which candidates to target manage recruiter scheduling determine when to send out notifications for candidate to visit their booths determine where to locate their booths and or recruiters etc. Information from the sensors may be used by candidates to for example determine which booths to visit and when which candidates to network with etc.

In block Recruiter is alerted e.g. via a push notification to his her recruiter terminal as to the proximity of Candidate. The alert may include some information about Candidate such as Candidate s college major and or the compatibility score between Candidate and Organization. In block Candidate is alerted e.g. via a push notification to his her candidate terminal as to the proximity of Recruiter. The alert may include some information about Recruiter and or Organization such as number and or types of positions that Organization is looking to fill and or the compatibility score between Candidate and Organization. In block either or both Candidate and Recruiter may respond to the notification e.g. Recruiter may push a send invite interface element included in the notification and or Candidate may push a get on waiting list interface element included in the notification to trigger further steps toward an interaction between Candidate and Recruiter.

Interacting with the interface element may bring up a messaging window for sending a message to John Doe. When a user interacts with the interface element the user s profile may be subscribed to John Doe s profile. When a user interacts with the interface element the user may recommend John Doe e.g. in general and or for a specific position and the recommendation may post to John Doe s profile the user s profile and or may be sent to the organization e.g. the organizations profile in the electronic recruiting system and or to the organization s r sum CV collection email address to which John Doe is being recommended.

The interface element may comprise a plurality of interface elements each of which corresponds to an organization candidate and or event to which John Doe is subscribed. Clicking on an interface element may open a profile window of the corresponding candidate organization or event. Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window displaying all candidates organizations and or events to which John Doe is subscribed. In addition to or instead of corresponding to profiles to which John Doe is subscribed one or more interface elements may correspond to an organization of which John Doe is a member or employee.

The interface element may comprise information about John Doe s academic credentials and may comprise a plurality of interface elements and . Each interface element may correspond to a school John Doe attended and the corresponding interface element may comprise details about John Doe s involvement with the school.

The interface element may comprise documents such as John Doe s r sum s CV s publications projects etc. Interacting with one of the interface elements may bring up a copy e.g. a .pdf or .html file of the document associated with the interface element . Each interface element may comprise a snapshot a summary excerpt etc. from the corresponding document.

The interface element may comprise a list of skills characteristics etc. that pertain to John Doe. The list may be populated from a standardized or uniform set of tags.

When the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line in the interface element is displayed in the candidate profile window. The interface element may comprise for example work history details academic history details affiliations association memberships John Doe s interests John Doe s publications John Doe s projects etc. The information interface element may have been manually entered by John Doe read from documents uploaded by John Doe and or imported from other websites or databases.

Now referring to when the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line one or more interface elements may be displayed in the candidate profile window. Each interface element may comprise a message or status update posted by John Doe and may indicate the day time at which it was posted. When a message refers to an organization candidate or event that has a profile in the electronic recruiting system the organization candidate or event name may appear as an interface element that links to an associated profile.

Now referring to when the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line interface elements and may be displayed in the candidate profile. Each interface element for simplicity of illustration only one is shown may comprise a description subject matter dates sponsors thesis conclusions etc. of a project With which the candidate has been involved. Each interface element may have a corresponding interface element which comprises tags e.g. the industry to which the project is applicable the technology used for the project etc. that provide quick easily searchable information about the project. Each interface element may be or link to a file e.g. images white papers presentations samples of code data sets etc. attached to the project.

Each interface element may have a corresponding one or more interface elements two are shown for illustration each of which corresponds to another person who worked on the project. In instances when the person associated with element has a profile on in the electronic recruiting system the interface element may link to that person s profile. In instances when the person does not have a profile in the electronic recruiting system an invite to create a profile in the recruiting system may be sent to that person in response to the candidate listing him her as a collaborator on the project. The invite may for example give the person the option of creating a profile with pre populated information pertaining to the project. When one collaborator on a project updates information pertaining to that project the updates may be automatically updated on the other collaborators profiles and or the other collaborators may be send a notification the update has been made and given the option to add the updates to their respective profiles.

Still referring to the profile picture displayed in the profile window of may be changed via interaction with interface element . The name displayed in the profile window of may be changed via interaction with interface element . The headline brief description displayed in the profile window of may be changed via interaction with the interface element . The contact information displayed in the profile window of may be changed via interaction with interface element . Interaction with the interface elements and subsequent clicking or tapping of the interface element an interface element containing the message may be posted to the profile window shown in .

The interface element may comprise a list of organizations to which John Doe is subscribed in the electronic recruiting system and or of which John Doe is a member whether it be as employee volunteer etc. . Each element may correspond to one such organization and may in turn comprise an element that links to the organization s profile in the recruiting system an element that shows a compatibility score between John Doe and the organization and an element that links to the profile of particular recruiter at organization with whom John Doe has interacted. The list may be filtered and or sorted based on any number and or variety of criteria using the interface element .

The interface element comprises a list of events that John Doe is subscribed to in the recruiting system and or has attended or is planning to attend. Each event in the list may correspond to an element which may link to the event s profile and or an event organizer s profile. The interface element may comprise statistics regarding John Doe s profile such as number of profile views time since last profile view number of organizations candidates and or events subscribed to number of organizations candidates and or events that are subscribed to John Doe s profile etc.

The interface element may comprise a feed of messages from organizations candidates and or events to which John Doe is subscribed. Each interface element may comprise a message or status update posted by an organization candidate or event and may indicate the day time at which it was posted. When a message refers to an organization candidate or event that has a profile in the electronic recruiting system the organization candidate or event name may appear as an interface element that links to an associated profile.

Now referring to the interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover organization profiles that meet selected criteria e.g. a threshold compatibility score . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element . The interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover candidate and or recruiter profiles that meet selected criteria e.g. a threshold compatibility score . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element . The interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover event profiles meeting selected criteria e.g. a threshold compatibility score . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element .

The interface element may comprise a list of organizations to which it is suggested that John Doe subscribe. The suggestions may be generated based on for example analysis by the recruiting system of John Doe s profile profiles to which John Doe is subscribed the organizations profiles profiles to which the organizations are subscribed scores indicating compatibility between John Doe and the organizations John Doe s past interactions John Doe s scheduled interactions and or information in John Doe s documents. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested organizations and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the organization s profile an interface element that shows a fit score e.g. based on a workplace culture questionnaire between John Doe and the organization and an interface element that gives a brief description of the organization.

The interface element may comprise a list of people e.g. candidates and or recruiters to which it is suggested that John Doe subscribe. The suggestions may be generated based on for example an analysis by the recruiting system of John Doe s profile profiles to which John Doe is subscribed the peoples profiles profiles to which the people are subscribed scores indicating compatibility between John Doe and the people John Doe s past interactions John Doe s scheduled interactions the peoples past interactions the peoples scheduled interactions and or information in John Doe s documents. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested persons and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the person s profile and an interface element that gives a brief description of the person.

The interface element may comprise a list of events e.g. job fairs diversity fairs association fairs expositions etc. that are suggested for John Doe to attend and or subscribe. The suggestions may be generated based on for example an analysis by the recruiting system of John Doe s profile profiles to which John Doe is subscribed the events profiles profiles to which the events profiles are subscribed organizations attending the events people attending the events scores indicating compatibility between John Doe and the events John Doe s past interactions John Doe s scheduled interactions and or information in John Doe s documents. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested events and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the event s profile and an interface element that gives a brief description of the event.

The interface element may comprise a list of requisitions e.g. job openings elected positions etc. to which it is suggested that John Doe apply. The requisitions may be stored in the server s which may functions as the organizations applicant tracking systems and or which may import the requisitions from organizations applicant tracking systems and or other sources on the Internet. The suggestions may be generated based on for example an analysis by the recruiting system of John Doe s profile the events profiles subscriptions associated with the events profiles organizations attending the events people attending the events scores indicating compatibility between John Doe and the events John Doe s past interactions John Doe s scheduled interactions and or information in John Doe s documents. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested requisitions and may in turn comprise an interface element that gives a brief description of the requisition and or links to the requisition e.g. on the associated organizations profile and an interface element via which John Doe can submit an application for the requisition. For example upon clicking or tapping the interface element John Doe s r sum CV and or other information from John Doe s profile in the electronic recruiting system may be electronically submitted to the organization associated with the requisition. The interface element may enable John Doe to apply for multiple requisitions possibly associated with multiple organizations in a single interaction e.g. click or tap . For example an organization may associate requisite fields of information with a particular requisition and in response to a candidate clicking to apply to that requisition those fields of information may be pulled from the candidate s profile formatted as configured by the organization and submitted to the organizations applicant tracking system.

Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be populated by pulling the underlying information from the database s via an API and or other interface. Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be viewed on a candidate terminal a recruiter terminal or any other suitable computing device.

When a user interacts with the interface element the user s profile may be subscribed to Event A s profile. When a user interacts with the interface element Event A may be added to the user s calendar and or a reminder for Event A may be set in a list of reminders in the user s profile. Interacting with the interface element may bring up a messaging window for recommending Event A to one or more other persons and or organizations. Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window via which the user can sponsor Event A e.g. make a donation display that user is a sponsor of Event A on Event A s profile and or on another website and or advertise Event A on the user s profile and or on another website .

The interface element may comprise information about Event A such as for example a date of Event A location of Event A information about organizations registered to attend information about candidates registered to attend information about requisitions that will be interviewed industries in which Event A attendees are involved and information about past occurrences of Event A. The information in the interface element may be populated from a standard set of tags for example. The interface element may comprise a list of events similar e.g. in any of the information in element in candidates and or organizations that are subscribed etc. to Event A. Each interface element may correspond to a similar event and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the similar event s profile and an interface element that when interacted with subscribes the user to the similar event. The interface element may comprise a list of other persons organizations and or events whose profiles are subscribed to Event A each interface element may correspond to one such candidate and each interface element may correspond to one such organization.

The interface element may comprise a long form description of Event A. The interface element may comprise a map of Event A. The map may be a street map and or an indoor map of Event A. The interface element may comprise a list of people e.g. administrators coordinators etc. of Event A. For each person in interface element there may be an interface element that links to his her profile in the electronic recruiting system and or an interface element that provides a headline or brief bio of the person. The interface element may comprise statistics regarding Event A s profile such as number of profile views time since last profile view number of organizations candidates and or events subscribed to number of organizations candidates and or events that are subscribed to John Doe s profile etc.

When the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line in the window of is displayed. When the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line in the window of is displayed.

Now referring to the interface element may comprise a feed of messages from organizations candidates and or events to which John Doe is subscribed. Each interface element may comprise a message or status update posted by an organization candidate or event and may indicate the day time at which it was posted. When a message refers to an organization candidate or event that has a profile in the electronic recruiting system the organization candidate or event name may appear as an interface element that links to an associated profile.

Information elements of the event profile may be accessible e.g. via an API such that they may be reflected on an organization s profile in the electronic recruiting system and or on an organization s website e.g. on Organization A s recruiting homepage at www.organizationA.com recruiting .

The interface element may comprise a list of organizations that are suggested for the administrator of Event A to invite to attend Event A. The suggestions may be generated based on for example analysis by the recruiting system of Event A s profile the organizations profiles subscriptions associated with the organizations profiles past attendance of Event A candidates registered to attend Event A and or organizations registered to attend Event A. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested organizations and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the organization s profile an interface element that gives a brief description of the organization.

The interface element may comprise a list of people e.g. candidates and or recruiters that are suggested to be invited to Event A. The suggestions may be generated based on for example an analysis by the recruiting system of Event A s profile the peoples profiles subscriptions associated with the people s profiles scores indicating compatibility between Event A and the people past attendance of Event A candidates registered to attend Event A and or organizations registered to attend Event A. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested persons and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the person s profile and an interface element that gives a brief description of the person.

The interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover organization profiles meeting selected criteria e.g. in a particular location and or industry . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element . The interface element may enable sending invitations to Event A to all or a selected subset organizations meeting in the interface element . The interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover candidate and or recruiter profiles meeting selected criteria e.g. in a particular location and or industry . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element . The interface element may enable sending invitations to Event A to all or a selected subset organizations in the interface element .

Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be populated by pulling the underlying information from the database s via an API and or other interface. Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be viewed on a candidate terminal a recruiter terminal or any other suitable computing device.

The interface element may display a compatibility score e.g. based on work culture questionnaires between Organization A and the user viewing Organization A s profile. When a user interacts with the interface element the user s profile may be subscribed to Organization A s profile. Interacting with the interface element may bring up a messaging window for recommending Organization A to one or more other persons and or events. Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window via which the user can sponsor Organization A e.g. make a donation display that user is a sponsor of Organization A on Organization A s profile and or on another website and or advertise Organization A on the user s profile and or on another website .

The interface element may comprise information about Organization A such as for example a website URL and organization demographics such as for example size industry college majors of members employees and or diversity information. The information in the interface element may be populated from a standard set of tags for example. The interface element may comprise a list of organizations similar e.g. in any of the information in element in what candidates and or organizations are subscribed to the organization in what candidates and or organizations the organization is subscribed to etc. to Organization A. Each interface element may correspond to a similar organization and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the similar organization s profile an interface element that shows a compatibility score between John Doe and the organization and an interface element that when interacted with subscribes the user to the similar organization. The interface element comprises a list of other persons organizations and or events whose profiles are subscribed to Organization A each interface element may correspond to one such candidate and each interface element may correspond to one such organization.

The interface element may comprise a long form description of Organization A. The interface element may comprise a map of Organization A s location s . The interface element may comprise list of people e.g. administrators Recruiters etc. of Organization A. For each person in interface element there is an interface element that links to his her profile in the electronic recruiting system and or an interface element that provides a headline or brief bio of the person. The interface element may comprise list of other organizations e.g. non profits of which Organization A is a member. The interface element may comprise statistics regarding Organization A s profile such as number of profile views time since last profile view number of organizations candidates and or events subscribed to number of organizations candidates and or events that are subscribed to Organization A s profile etc.

When the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line in the window of is displayed. When the interface element is selected as indicated by the heavy line in the window of is displayed.

Now referring to the interface element may comprise a feed of messages from organizations candidates and or events to which Organization A is subscribed. Each interface element may comprise a message or status update posted by an organization candidate or event and may indicate the day time at which it was posted. When a message refers to an organization candidate or event that has a profile in the electronic recruiting system the organization candidate or event name may appear as an interface element that links to an associated profile.

Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window for assessing recruiter performance according to various metrics. An example of such a window is shown in . Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window for assessing various metrics associated with the organization s attendance and or activity at one or more recruiting events. An example of such a window is shown in . Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window for managing an organization recruiting calendar. An example of such a window is shown in . Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window for managing an organization s position job requisitions. An example of such a window is shown in . Interacting with the interface element may bring up a window for performing a search to discover candidates and or events that might be suitable for organization. An example of such a window is shown in .

The sorting filtering of the list via interface element may be based on any one or more of the metrics or statistics shown in interface element . For a particular recruiter Recruiter of a particular organization Organization such metrics and or statistics may include for example number of events attended by Recruiter list of particular events attended by Recruiter number of candidates screened by Recruiter list of particular candidates screened by Recruiter number of offers presented to candidates identified by Recruiter number of candidates identified by Recruiter that are ongoing in the interview process number of offers accepted rejected by candidates identified by Recruiter number of candidates identified by Recruiter that were ultimately awarded a position with Organization subsequent performance of such hires e.g. based on internal performance reviews statistics regarding Recruiter s profile in the electronic recruiting system and or assessment scores that Recruiter has given to candidates generally and or to particular candidates. The interface element may present the information in the form of for example lists graphs charts etc. The information presented in interface element may also be presented such that recruiter s can for example be compared side by side with other recruiters and or year over year performance.

The sorting filtering of the list via interface element may be based on any one or more of the metrics or statistics shown in interface element . For a recruiting coordinator of a particular organization Organization viewing the interface element such metrics and or statistics may include for example Organization s costs in participating in the event s number of candidates perhaps meeting particular selected criteria that attended the event s number candidates screened by Organization s recruiters at the event s number of Organization positions filled by candidates identified at the event s subsequent performance e.g. based on internal performance reviews of such candidates list of candidates identified e.g. screened and recommended for interviewing at the event s averages assessment scores given by Organization s recruiters to candidate screened at the event s average compatibility scores of candidates who attended the event s number of referrals originated at the event s statistics regarding the number and or rates at which candidate terminals were scanned by recruiter terminals and or check in terminals at the event s . The interface element may present the information in the form of for example lists graphs charts etc. The information presented in interface element may also be presented such that events can be compared side by side and or year over year.

Each interface element may provide the name of the associated event and may when interacted with bring up the associated event s profile in the electronic recruiting system. Each interface element may indicate a status of the corresponding event. Each interface element may when interacted with bring up a list of candidates who attended and or are registered to attend the associated event and may indicate a status of each candidate e.g. whether the candidate was screened at a past event individual and or composite assessment scores the candidate received at the past event whether the candidate is scheduled for further interviewing whether the candidates are high priority to be screened at a future event a time at which the candidate is to be screened at a future event etc. . Each interface element when interacted with may bring up a window in which assessments e.g. submitted by recruiters via interface element of window in of the associated event may be reviewed and analyzed. Each interface element when interacted with may bring up a window e.g. with a calendar element that displays the schedules of recruiters and or interviewers attending an in progress event. Each interface element when interacted with may bring up a window e.g. with a calendar element and list of recruiters and interviewers via which the recruiting coordinator can schedule recruiters and or interviewers for the upcoming event. Each interface element may when interacted with bring up a window for creating and or uploading forms e.g. assessment forms described with reference to . and or other resources such as for example the resources described with reference to .

Each interface element may bring up a window via which the recruiting coordinator or human resources manager can view e.g. in real time and or in periodic updates recently completed and in progress assessment forms being filled out by recruiters and or interviewers attending the in progress event. In this manner a recruiting manager or recruiting coordinator can at or near real time track the progress and or value of particular recruiting events and or recruiters in real time can allocate and de allocate resources to a particular event depending on current need manage recruiter and or interviewer schedules e.g. to accommodate high priority candidates identify the particularly strong candidates as soon as possible etc.

The interface element may comprise a list of people e.g. candidates and or recruiters that are suggested to join Organization. The suggestions may be generated based on for example an analysis by the recruiting system of Organization s profile the peoples profiles profiles to which the people are subscribed scores indicating compatibility between Organization and the people and or the people s r sum CV information. Each interface element may correspond to one of the suggested persons and may in turn comprise an interface element that links to the person s profile and an interface element that gives a brief description of the Event.

The interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover event profiles meeting selected criteria e.g. in a particular location and or industry . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element . The interface element may enable subscribing to and or registering for all or a selected subset of the events listed in the interface element . The interface element may provide a search tool for searching to discover candidate and or recruiter profiles meeting selected criteria e.g. in a particular location and or industry . Search filter criteria may be entered via the interface element and the results may be displayed in the interface element . The interface element may enable subscribing to the profile s of all or a selected subset of the people listed in the interface element .

Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be populated by pulling the underlying information from the database s via an API and or other interface. Any of the windows described with reference to may for example be viewed on a candidate terminal a recruiter terminal or any other suitable computing device.

In block Organization decides to integrate their applicant tracking system with the electronic recruiting system described herein. Accordingly the requisition and information about the existing candidate pool is transferred into the electronic recruiting system. In block the existing candidate pool and requisition are analyzed to determine a necessary size of the candidate pool in order to have a certain probability that a suitable candidate will be found and hired. This analysis may be based for example on recruiting and hiring information collected from Organization other organizations and or the pertinent industry in general. In block if the existing candidate pool is of the necessary size then the process returns to block . In this manner the candidate pool may be continually and or periodically monitored such that candidates can be added when new candidates meeting requirements are input to the electronic recruiting system and such that candidates who are no longer available for the position can be removed from the pool.

Returning to block if the existing candidate pool is not of the necessary size then the process proceeds to block . In block the parameters of the requisition e.g. salary location qualifications etc. are used to search for matching candidate profiles in the electronic recruiting system. Where such requirements result in a list of candidates that is more than is needed to fill the candidate pool to then necessary size the list of candidates may be further pared down based on compatibility scores e.g. based on workplace culture between the candidates and Organization. In block the candidates discovered in the search of block are recommended for addition to the candidate pool. The administrator in charge of the requisition may be enabled to accept or reject the recommended candidates individually in groups and or as a whole. After block the process returns to block .

In block it is determined whether all requirements qualifications for the requisition have been entered. If not the process returns to block . If so the process advances to block where it is determined whether the candidate pool size is big enough to ensure with a desired probability that a suitable candidate will be found. If the pool size is not big enough then in block the electronic recruiting system analyzes the qualifications requirements and generates suggested changes to the requirements that will get the candidate pool up to the necessary size. The user can accept one or more of the suggested changes and or can reject them to accept the smaller candidate pool size. In block creation of the job requisition is complete.

In block Candidate X and Candidate Y register with the electronic recruiting system. In block Candidates X and Y create their respective profiles in the electronic recruiting system e.g. using the window of . In block Candidates X and Y fill out questionnaires regarding their personalities and or workplace culture preferences. In block compatibility scores S compatibility between A and X S compatibility between A and Y S compatibility between B and X and S compatibility between A and X are generated. The compatibility scores may be generated based on Organization A s profile Organization B s profile Candidate X s profile Candidate Y s profile the questionnaire responses of Organization A s employees the questionnaire responses of Organization B s employees Candidate X s responses to the questionnaire and or Candidate Y s responses to the questionnaire.

In block for each compatibility score S that is greater than a determined threshold the electronic recruiting system may recommend Candidate m to Organization n and or recommend Organization n to Candidate m.

The server s may comprise a processing circuit that may be similar to the processing circuit described above with reference to a networking circuit that may be similar to the networking circuit described above with reference to a memory circuit that may be similar to the memory circuit described above with reference to server application which may be similar to the server application described above with reference to and applicant tracking system ATS front ends each of which may be similar to the database application described above with reference to .

Each of the ATS front ends may enable access to a particular organization s recruiting data. The data of different organizations stored for example in memory may be kept securely separated to comply with privacy policies regulations. Data may however be shared among organizations and or shared with an organization agnostic centralized repository which may be in memory after having sensitive and or private data stripped in compliance with applicable privacy policies regulations.

In block Candidate A is notified of requisitions for which he meets the requirements. Such a notification of block may additionally or alternatively comprise a score indicating Candidate A s compatibility with the associated organization.

For requisitions that are open for Candidate A to submit an application Candidate A may be provided with an interface element via which s he can apply for the requisitions as for example described above with reference to .

The notification may additionally or alternatively comprise information about how Candidate A may be connected to the associated organization in the electronic recruiting system. For example Candidate A may be notified of a chain of one or more candidate and or organization subscriptions and or past interactions that ultimately lead to the associated organization and or one of its recruiters. Candidate A may then attempt to seek recommendations for the requisition from one or more of the persons or organizations along that chain. Such information may be useful to Candidate A where one or more of the requisitions are invite only e.g. only to candidates who have been recommended by someone sufficiently connected to the organization . For example Candidate A may be notified that s he meets the requirements for position Z with Organization X that Candidate A is a good cultural fit for Organization X that Candidate A recently interacted with Candidate B at a recruiting event and that Candidate B is subscribed to by Organization X. Accordingly Candidate A may try to cultivate his her relationship with Candidate B in an attempt to get Candidate B to recommend Candidate A to Organization X via the electronic recruiting system.

In block the organization s for which Candidate A was determined to meet the requirements for an open requisition in may be notified of Candidate A s fit for the position and may be notified of a chain of subscriptions and or interactions that lead to Candidate A.

Accordingly the present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present method and or system may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed interface elements the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present method and or system may also be embedded in a machine readable computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form. The computer program product may be provided for example on optical and or magnetic storage and or may be downloadable via network such as the Internet.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

