---

title: Mitigating wind turbine blade noise generation in view of a minimum power generation requirement
abstract: Described embodiments include a wind turbine system. In this embodiment, the system includes a wind turbine including a rotor blade having a controllable feature and attached to a rotor hub drivingly coupled to an electric generator. The controllable feature is configured if activated to decrease a noise generated by the rotor blade and correspondingly to decrease electric power generated by the electric generator. The wind turbine system includes a sensor configured to detect a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of the rotor blade. The wind turbine system includes a noise manager circuit configured to select a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected parameter and in compliance with a minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to the wind turbine. The wind turbine system includes a control circuit configured to activate the controllable feature in response to the selected noise mitigation measure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09435320&OS=09435320&RS=09435320
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09435320
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121119
---
If an application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any application claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those application and any material incorporated by reference including extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 681 196 entitled MITIGATING WIND TURBINE BLADE NOISE GENERATION naming William D. Duncan Roderick A. Hyde David B. Tuckerman and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Nov. 19 2012 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 681 231 entitled MITIGATING WIND TURBINE BLADE NOISE GENERATION IN RESPONSE TO AN ATMOSPHERIC VARIATION naming William D. Duncan Roderick A. Hyde David B. Tuckerman and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Nov. 19 2012 is related to the present application.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designation s are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a wind turbine system. In this embodiment the wind turbine system includes a wind turbine including a rotor blade having a controllable feature and attached to a rotor hub drivingly coupled to an electric generator. The controllable feature is configured if activated to decrease a noise generated by the rotor blade and correspondingly to decrease electric power generated by the electric generator. The wind turbine system includes a sensor configured to detect a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of the rotor blade. The wind turbine system includes a noise manager circuit configured to select a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected parameter and in compliance with a minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to the wind turbine. The wind turbine system includes a control circuit configured to activate the controllable feature in response to the selected noise mitigation measure.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a wind turbine system. In this embodiment the wind turbine system includes a first wind turbine including a first rotor blade having a first controllable feature and attached to a first rotor hub drivingly coupled to a first electric generator. The first controllable feature configured if activated to decrease a first noise generated by the first rotor blade and correspondingly to decrease a first electric power generated by the first electric generator. The wind turbine system includes a second wind turbine including a second rotor blade having a second controllable feature and attached to a second rotor hub drivingly coupled to a second electric generator. The second controllable feature configured if activated to decrease a second noise generated by the second rotor blade and correspondingly to decrease a second electric power generated by the second electric generator. The wind turbine system includes a sensor configured to detect a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of the first rotor blade or of the second rotor blade. The wind turbine system includes a noise manager circuit configured to select a noise mitigation measure i responsive to the detected parameter and ii in compliance with a first minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to the first electric generator or a second minimum power generation requirement assigned to the second electric generator. The wind turbine system includes a control system configured to activate the first controllable feature or second controllable feature in response to the selected noise mitigation measure.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. In this embodiment the method includes detecting a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of a rotating rotor blade having a controllable feature and attached to a rotor hub driving an electric generator. The controllable feature is configured to decrease a noise generated by the rotating rotor blade if activated. The method includes selecting a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected parameter and in compliance with a minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to the electric generator. The method includes activating the controllable feature of the rotating rotor blade in response to the selected noise mitigation measure.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. In this embodiment the method includes detecting a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of each rotating rotor blade of at least two rotating rotor blades. Each rotating rotor blade respectively having a controllable feature and attached to a respective rotor hub driving a respective electric generator each controllable feature configured to decrease a noise generated by its respective rotating rotor blade if activated. The method includes selecting a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected parameter and in compliance with a minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to at least one electric generator of the respective electric generators. The method includes activating a controllable feature of a rotating rotor blade of the at least two rotating rotor blades in response to the selected noise mitigation measure.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to implement an operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media holds or transmits a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described below. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem module communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will also recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will likewise recognize that at least some of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive display or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive display is illustrated as a display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive display joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface or to the network through the modem or through the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

Wind turbines larger than one megawatt of rated power may be a surprise for many nearby residents by being much louder than expected. The sounds produced by blades gearing and generator may be significantly louder and more noticeable as wind turbine size increases. Long rotor blades create a distinctive aerodynamic sound as air shears off the trailing edge or rear portion of the airfoil and tip. The sound character varies from a whoosh at low wind speeds to a jet plane that never lands at moderate and higher wind speeds. Blade induced air vortices spinning off the tip may produce an audible thump as each blade sweeps past the mast. Thumping can become more pronounced at distance sometimes described as sneakers in a dryer when sounds from multiple turbines arrive at a listener s position simultaneously.

Wind turbines often are not synchronized and so thumps may arrive together or separately creating an unpredictable or chaotic acoustic pattern. The sounds of large industrial wind turbines may be clearly audible for miles. They may be considered intrusive sounds that are uncharacteristic of a natural soundscape.

The wind turbine system includes a wind turbine having a rotor blade attached to a rotor hub drivingly coupled to an electric generator . For example the electric generator may be housed in a nacelle . The system includes a sensor configured to detect a rotational position of the rotor blade relative to a surface of the ground . illustrates an embodiment where the rotor blade rotates counterclockwise when viewed from a head on or upwind direction. In another embodiment the rotor blade may rotate clockwise. In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor carried by the rotor blade . In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor carried by a support structure . In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor carried by a structure other than the support structure . In an embodiment a rotational position may be expressed as a linear distance measurement of a tip of the rotor blade above the ground. In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor and rotational angle index mark carried on the rotor hub .

In an alternative embodiment the rotational position may be expressed by a degree of rotation relative to horizontal axis or relative to vertical axis of the earth. For example illustrates a rotation of a rotor relative to a vertical axis as illustrated by the support structure . Continuing with the wind turbine system includes a noise controller configured to implement a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected rotational position of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground . While the noise controller is illustrated in as carried by the nacelle the noise controller may be carried located or positioned at any convenient location. For example the noise controller may be carried or mounted within the nacelle onboard some other portion of the wind turbine on the support structure or off board of the wind turbine.

In an embodiment the surface of the ground includes a naturally occurring surface of the earth or a surface of an earthen structure such as a manmade fill or excavation. In an embodiment the surface of the ground includes a surface of the ground closest to a propeller disc described by a revolution of the rotor blade . For example see the portion of the ground proximate to the tip referenced by the distance measurement .

In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a descending motion of the tip of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground . In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect an ascending motion of the tip of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a motion of a tip of the rotor blade generally parallel to the surface of the ground. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a rotational position of the rotor blade relative to a portion of the surface of the ground proximate to the structure supporting the rotor hub . In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a rotational position of the rotor blade relative to the structure supporting the rotor hub. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a rotor blade angle within the generator. See sensor and rotational angle index mark . In an embodiment the sensor includes a trigger indexed to the rotor blade. In an embodiment the sensor includes a microphone. In an embodiment the sensor includes a pressure sensor. In an embodiment the sensor includes an optical sensor.

In an embodiment the noise controller is configured to select and implement a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected rotational position of the rotor blade . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes changing an orientation of at least a portion of the rotor blade. For example the changing an orientation may include changing a pitch of the entire rotor blade. For example the changing an orientation may include changing a pitch of a portion of the rotor blade using a controllable feature of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes dynamically shaping airflow over at least a portion of a rotor blade. For example the dynamically shaping airflow may include using the controllable feature of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes releasing air from a region on the rotor blade. For example the releasing air may occur on the vacuum side or the pressure side of the rotor blade using the controllable feature of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes creating a transpiration airflow on at least a portion of the rotor blade. Transpiration is a technique in which extra non physical normal flows are created on an airfoil surface in order to form a new streamline pattern such that the surface streamlines no longer follow the airfoil surface under inviscid flow. For example the creating a transpiration airflow may include using the controllable feature of the rotor blade.

In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is responsive to a detected descending motion of the tip of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is responsive to a detected ascending motion of a tip of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is responsive to a detected rotational position of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure varies asymmetrically depending upon a detected rotational position of the rotor blade relative to the surface of the ground. For example the noise mitigation measure may change or vary depending on whether the rotor blade is descending toward the surface of the ground paralleling the surface of the ground or ascending away from the surface of the ground. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is implemented by an apparatus carried on at least a portion of the rotor blade such as by the controllable feature of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the controllable feature of the rotor blade includes a dynamically shapeable region of the rotor blade located at a first portion of the longitudinal length of the rotor blade and the noise mitigation measure is implemented by the dynamically shapeable region. An example of a controllable feature of a rotor blade is described by U.S. Pat. App. No. 2009 0097976 Driver et al. Apr. 16 2009. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is implemented by a speaker. In an embodiment the speaker is carried by the rotor blade and may be implemented using the controllable feature . In an embodiment a speaker is carried by the support structure supporting the rotor hub . In an embodiment the speaker is carried by a structure other than the support structure .

In an embodiment the system further includes another rotor blade attached to the rotor hub . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is further responsive to a position of the another rotor blade with respect to the surface of the ground . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is further responsive to a position of the another rotor blade with respect to the support structure . In an embodiment the system further includes the support structure mounted on or in the ground and maintaining the rotor hub a sufficient distance above the surface of the ground to allow the rotor blade to rotate about the rotor hub without contacting the surface of the ground.

In an embodiment the detecting a position includes detecting a position of a tip of the rotating rotor blade. In an embodiment the authorizing includes authorizing a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected position of the tip of the rotating rotor blade. In an embodiment the detecting a position includes detecting a position relative to a surface of the ground closest to a propeller disc described by the rotating rotor blade of a rotating rotor blade of a wind turbine driven electric generator. In an embodiment the detecting a position includes detecting a rotational position of the rotor blade. For example a detected position may be expressed in a degree of rotation about an axis such as 10 degrees from vertical such as in a first descending quadrant or as 330 degrees from vertical such as in a third ascending quadrant. In an embodiment the detecting a position includes detecting a descending or an ascending rotational position of the tip of the rotor blade.

In an embodiment the authorized noise mitigation measure includes dynamically shaping airflow over at least a portion of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the authorized noise mitigation measure includes releasing air from a region of the rotor blade. For example the air may be released from a vacuum side or a pressure side of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the authorized noise mitigation measure includes creating a transpiration airflow on at least a portion of the rotor blade.

In an embodiment the implementing includes implementing the authorized noise mitigation measure using an apparatus carried on at least a portion of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the implementing includes implementing the authorized noise mitigation measure using a speaker. In an embodiment the speaker is carried by a structure supporting the rotor hub. In an embodiment the speaker is carried by carried by a structure other than a structure supporting the rotor hub. In an embodiment the implementing includes implementing the authorized noise mitigation measure using an apparatus not physically coupled with a structure supporting the rotor hub.

In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a position of a tip of the rotor blade relative to the support structure . In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect the rotor blade sweeping past the support structure. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a motion of a tip of the rotor blade generally parallel to the surface of the ground. In an embodiment the noise controller is further configured to predict when the rotor blade will sweep past the support structure and to further implement the noise mitigation measure responsive to the predicted sweep of the rotor blade past the support structure. For example the prediction may include information forecasting or predicting a time until or when the rotor blade will sweep past the support structure. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is implemented by a controllable feature located on the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is implemented by an apparatus located on the support structure such as the controllable feature . For example the controllable feature may be configured to emit an air blast or pull a vacuum in a region swept through by the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is responsive to the rotor blade sweeping past the support structure. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is implemented by an apparatus carried by a structure other than a structure supporting the rotor hub on the support structure such as a speaker carried on a structure . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is responsive to a detected tip of the rotor blade sweeping past the support structure.

In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is response to a detected rotational position of the rotor blade relative to the support structure . In addition to being expressed in degrees or quadrants the rotational position may be expressed as approaching paralleling or departing the support structure. In an embodiment the system further includes another rotor blade attached to the rotor hub . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is further responsive to a position of the another rotor blade with respect to the support structure .

In an embodiment the detecting includes detecting a position relative to a support structure of a tip of a rotating rotor blade of a wind turbine electric generation system. In an embodiment the detecting includes detecting the rotating rotor blade rotating past the support structure. For example a tip or a particular portion of the rotating rotor blade may be detected.

In an embodiment the operational flow includes an approval operation authorizing implementing the noise mitigation measure. In an embodiment the operational flow includes a timing operation predicting when the rotating rotor blade will pass the support structure.

The wind turbine system includes a wind turbine having a rotor blade attached to a rotor hub drivingly coupled to an electric generator and an optional second rotor blade . The system includes a sensor configured to detect an atmospheric variation approaching the rotor blade . Illustrated embodiments of the sensor include a sensor carried by the rotor hub a sensor carried by the rotor blade a sensor carried by a nacelle a sensor carried by the structure supporting the rotor hub and a sensor carried by a structure other than the support structure . The system includes a controllable feature configured to decrease a noise generated by the rotor blade if activated. Illustrated embodiments of the controllable feature include a controllable feature carried by the rotor blade a controllable feature carried by the support structure and a controllable feature carried by another structure other than the support structure .

The system includes a noise manager circuit configured to authorize a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected atmospheric variation . While the noise manager system is illustrated in as carried by the nacelle the noise manager system may be carried located or positioned at any convenient location. For example the noise manager system may be carried or mounted within the nacelle onboard some other portion of the wind turbine on the support structure or off board the wind turbine. The system includes a control circuit configured to activate the controllable feature in response to the authorized noise mitigation measure. While the control circuit is illustrated in as carried by the nacelle the control circuit may be carried located or positioned at any convenient location. For example the control circuit may be carried or mounted within the nacelle onboard some other portion of the wind turbine on the support structure or off board the wind turbine.

In an embodiment the system includes a computing device configured to predict a possible shift or change in the detected atmospheric variation as it approaches the rotor blade. For example the computing device may predict that a detected atmospheric pressure drop will increase or decrease by the time it reaches the rotor blade. For example the computing device may predict that a detected wind speed change will dissipate by the time it reaches the rotor blade.

In an embodiment the rotor blade includes the controllable feature . In an embodiment the system further includes a support structure carrying the controllable feature. In an embodiment the support structure carries the controllable feature and supports the rotor hub a sufficient distance above the ground to allow rotation of the rotor blade about the rotor hub without contacting the ground . In an embodiment the support structure includes a structure carrying the controllable feature .

In an embodiment the sensor includes a laser Doppler anemometer hereafter LIDAR . An example of a LIDAR sensor used to measure wind is described by U.S. Pat. App. No. 2009 0046289 Caldwell et al. Feb. 19 2009. Another example of a LIDAR sensor used to measure wind is described by U.S. Pat. App. No. 2006 0140764 Smith et al. Jun. 29 2006. In an embodiment the sensor includes a rotary cup anemometer. In an embodiment the sensor includes a sonic anemometer. In an embodiment the sensor includes an atmospheric pressure sensor. In an embodiment the sensor includes a radar sensor. In an embodiment the sensor is carried by the rotor hub a nacelle enclosing the rotor hub or a structure supporting the rotor hub. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect an atmospheric variation approaching the rotor blade at a distance of at least one rotor blade length upwind of the rotor hub. In an embodiment the sensor is carried by a structure potentially downwind of the rotor hub. While this embodiment may not be illustrated in a sensor for example may be carried by a structure positioned substantially between the wind turbine system and a neighborhood or noise alleviation zone. In an embodiment the sensor is carried by a structure potentially upwind of the rotor hub illustrated as by the support structure carrying the sensor . In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect an atmospheric variation approaching the rotor blade within a time frame sufficient for the noise manager circuit to authorize a noise mitigation measure and the controller circuit to implement the noise mitigation measure before or as the atmospheric variation affects the rotor blade. In an embodiment the sensor includes a sensor configured to detect a spatial variation in airflow approaching the rotor blade. For example a spatial variation may include a vertical or horizontal variation profile. In an embodiment the sensor includes a sensor configured to detect a variation in air moisture content temperature or density in an airflow approaching the rotor blade. In an embodiment the detected atmospheric variation includes a detected transient atmospheric variation. For example a detected atmospheric variation may include a gust shift in wind direction or patch of warm or cold air. In an embodiment the detected atmospheric variation includes a detected wind speed a change in wind speed a wind direction a change in wind direction or a wind gradient. For example a detected wind speed variation may include a 1 2 3 5 mph wind speed variation over a particular time or a directional variation of 2 5 or 10 degrees over a particular time for example. In an embodiment the detected atmospheric variation includes a detected turbulence temperature or pressure variation. In an embodiment the detected atmospheric variation includes a detected atmospheric variation categorized as possibly having an affect on generation of the noise by the rotor blade. In an embodiment the detected atmospheric variation includes a detected variation in a wind speed approaching the rotor blade.

In an embodiment the controllable feature includes an airflow modifiable region of the rotor blade located at a portion of a longitudinal length of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes changing a cross sectional shape of the airflow modifiable region of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes controlling airflow over the airflow modifiable region. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes dynamically altering airflow over the airflow modifiable region. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes releasing air from the airflow modifiable region. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes creating a transpiration airflow through the airflow modifiable region. In an embodiment the controllable feature includes a controllable rotor blade pitch. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes changing a pitch of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is further implemented by a controllable feature carried on the structure supporting the rotor hub.

In an embodiment the authorization of the noise mitigation measure is not responsive to a possible impact of the authorized noise mitigation measure on electric power generated by the electric generator . For example the authorization may not take into account or may be indifferent or agnostic to a possible reduction in electricity generated by the electric generator. In an embodiment the authorization of the noise mitigation measure is responsive to a possible impact of the authorized noise mitigation measure on electric power generated by the electric generator. In an embodiment the authorization of the noise mitigation measure includes authorizing the noise mitigation measure if the electric power generation reduction is below a threshold level. For example implementation of the noise mitigation measure may be authorized if the anticipated power generation reduction is less than 10 of that currently being generated. In an embodiment the authorization of the noise mitigation measure is responsive to a minimum electric power generation requirement for the wind turbine system. For example implementation of the noise mitigation measure may be authorized if the power generation is predicted or calculated to remain above 1 megawatt. In an embodiment the noise manager circuit is further configured to select the noise mitigation measure from at least two possible noise mitigation measures responsive to the detected atmospheric variation. In an embodiment the authorizing includes authorizing a noise mitigation measure selected from at least two possible noise mitigation measures responsive to the detected atmospheric variation.

In an embodiment the noise manager circuit is further configured to select the noise mitigation measure having the least reduction in electric power generated by the electric generator from at least two possible noise mitigation measures responsive to the detected atmospheric variation . In an embodiment the noise manager circuit is configured to authorize a noise mitigation measure responsive to a detected average wind speed approaching the rotor blade exceeding a threshold wind speed. In an embodiment the noise manager circuit is configured to authorize a noise mitigation measure responsive to a detected variation of atmospheric pressure approaching the rotor blade that exceeds a threshold criterion. In an embodiment the noise manager circuit is configured to authorize a noise mitigation measure responsive to a detected turbulence air moisture content air temperature or air density variation approaching the blade.

In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect an atmospheric variation approaching the rotor blade within a time frame sufficient for the noise manager circuit to select the noise mitigation measure and for the controller circuit to implement the authorized noise mitigation measure before or as the atmospheric variation affects the rotor blade. In an embodiment the system further includes the support structure positioning the rotor hub a sufficient distance above the ground to allow rotation of the rotor blade about the rotor hub without contacting the ground.

In an alternative embodiment the operational flow includes predicting an arrival of the approaching atmospheric variation at the rotating rotor blade. In an alternative embodiment the execution operation includes activating the controllable feature of the rotating rotor blade in response to the authorized noise mitigation measure and in response to the predicted arrival of the atmospheric variation. In an embodiment the operational flow includes computationally predicting a possible shift or change in the detected atmospheric variation as it approaches the rotor blade. In an embodiment the computationally predicting may be implemented using the computing device described in conjunction with .

In an alternative embodiment the system includes means for predicting an arrival of the approaching atmospheric variation at the rotating rotor blade.

The wind turbine system includes a wind turbine having a rotor blade attached to a rotor hub drivingly coupled to an electric generator and an optional second rotor blade . For example the electric generator may be housed in a nacelle . The rotor blade includes a tip . The rotor blade has a controllable feature configured if activated to decrease a noise generated by the rotor blade. If activated the controllable feature has a negative or adverse consequence on lift generated by the rotor blade or it increases drag generated by the rotor blade which correspondingly results in a decrease in electric power generated by the electric generator. illustrates an embodiment with the rotor blade rotating counterclockwise when viewed from a head on or upwind direction.

The wind turbine system includes a sensor configured to detect a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of the rotor blade . For example the parameter may include a distinguishing feature of a present or a possible future noise generation state of the rotor blade. For example a parameter indicative of a present noise generation state may include turbulence forming over a portion of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor carried by the rotor blade . In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor carried by a support structure . In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor carried by a structure other than the support structure . In an embodiment the sensor is illustrated by a sensor and rotational position index mark carried on the rotor hub .

The wind turbine system includes a noise manager circuit configured to select a noise mitigation measure responsive to the detected parameter and in compliance with a minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to the wind turbine system. While the noise manager circuit is illustrated in as carried by the nacelle the noise manager circuit may be carried located or positioned at any convenient location. For example the noise manager circuit may be carried or mounted within the nacelle onboard some other portion of the wind turbine on the support structure or off board of the wind turbine . The wind turbine system includes a control circuit configured to activate the controllable feature in response to the selected noise mitigation measure. While the control circuit is illustrated in as carried by the nacelle the control circuit may be carried located or positioned at any convenient location. For example the control circuit may be carried or mounted within the nacelle onboard some other portion of the wind turbine on the support structure or off board of the wind turbine.

In an embodiment the controllable feature includes an airflow modifiable region of the rotor blade located at a portion of a longitudinal length of the rotor blade. In an embodiment the controllable feature includes a controllable rotor blade pitch. In an embodiment the sensor is configured to detect a vortex induced noise. In an embodiment the sensor includes a microphone. In an embodiment the sensor includes a pressure sensor. In an embodiment the sensor includes a vibration or an accelerometer sensor.

In an embodiment the parameter includes a parameter indicative of noise generated by airflow across the rotor blade . In an embodiment the parameter includes a parameter indicative of an atmospheric variation approaching the rotor blade. In an embodiment the parameter includes a parameter indicative of noise received by a noise alleviation zone. In an embodiment the noise alleviation zone includes a land area having a noise tolerance rating. For example a noise tolerance rating may be at least partially based on the existing land use in the area history of adverse noise incidents time of day special events or prevailing wind direction. In an embodiment the parameter includes a parameter indicative of a noise produced or propagated by airflow across the rotor blade. For example the parameter may be indicative of noise generated by airflow across the rotor blade including vortexes vibration and the like. In an embodiment the parameter includes a parameter indicative of a noise produced or propagated by unstalled airflow across the rotor blade. In an embodiment the parameter includes turbulence induced noise.

In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement is responsive to a time of day. In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement is responsive to a weather condition. For example the weather condition may include a current or a predicted weather condition. In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement is responsive to a wind direction. For example the wind direction may include a current or a predicted wind direction. In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement is responsive to a target cumulative electric power generation requirement over a period of time. For example a target cumulative electric power generation requirement may include a certain number of megawatts generated over 12 hours for example i.e. if target is reached then authorized to cut electric power generation even to zero if target is not reached system can cut electric power generation but only down to amount predicted to reach target cumulative electric power generation requirement. In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement includes a maximum allowable percentage reduction in present electric power generation. For example if present or target electric power generation is 2 MW for the wind turbine system the selected noise mitigation measure cannot reduce the power generation by more than 10 or 200 KW. In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement is responsive to minimum a monetary value of electric power generation over a period of time. For example the wind turbine must have generated a minimum dollar value worth of electric power in the last 24 hours before electric power generation can be reduced or ceased. For example the dollar value may be computed according to a generally prevailing price of electricity or according to spot price of electricity. In an embodiment the minimum electric power generation requirement is responsive to a noise sensitivity of a noise alleviation zone lying potentially downwind of the wind turbine.

In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is selected in response to instantaneous values of the detected parameter. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is selected in response to an average value of the detected parameter over a period of time. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is selected in response to cumulative values of the detected parameter and of cumulative power generation over a period of time. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure is selected in response to weighted values of the detected parameter and electric power generation over a period of time. For example electric power generation may be more important at some times of a day than other times.

In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes changing an orientation of a portion of the rotor blade . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes dynamically shaping airflow over at least a portion of the rotor blade . In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes releasing air from a region on the rotor blade. In an embodiment the noise mitigation measure includes creating a transpiration airflow on at least a portion of the rotor blade.

Another embodiment includes a system comprising a first wind turbine and a second wind turbine. The first wind turbine includes a first rotor blade having a first controllable feature and attached to a first rotor hub drivingly coupled to a first electric generator. The first controllable feature is configured if activated to decrease a first noise generated by the first rotor blade and correspondingly to decrease a first electric power generated by the first electric generator. For example the first wind turbine may be illustrated by the wind turbine described in conjunction with . The second wind turbine includes a second rotor blade having a second controllable feature and attached to a second rotor hub drivingly coupled to a second electric generator. The second controllable feature is configured if activated to decrease a second noise generated by the second rotor blade and correspondingly to decrease a second electric power generated by the second electric generator. For example the second wind turbine may also be illustrated by the wind turbine described in conjunction with .

The system includes a sensor configured to detect a parameter indicative of present or possible future noise generation state of the first rotor blade or of the second rotor blade. For example the sensor may include one of more of the embodiments of the sensor described in conjunction with .

The system includes a noise manager circuit configured to select a noise mitigation measure. The noise mitigation measure is selected i in response to the detected parameter and ii in compliance with the first minimum electric power generation requirement assigned to the first electric generator or the second minimum power generation requirement assigned to the second electric generator. For example the noise manager circuit may include one of more of the embodiments of the noise manager circuit described in conjunction with .

The system includes a control system configured to activate the first controllable feature or second controllable feature in response to the selected noise mitigation measure. For example the control system may include one of more of the embodiments of the control system described in conjunction with

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

