---

title: Systems and methods for dynamic construction of entity graphs
abstract: The present disclosure includes a system, method, and article of manufacture for generating an entity graph. The method may comprise determining a relationship between a first entity and a second entity based upon internal data, external data, and/or online data associated with the first entity, and generating the entity graph comprising at least two nodes and an edge connecting the at least two nodes. The method may further comprise, in various embodiments, tailoring marketing to the first entity based upon the entity graph, detecting fraud against the first entity based upon the entity graph, periodically updating the entity graph based upon new internal data and new online data, and/or adjusting the edge based upon a change in the relationship between the first entity and the second entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09087088&OS=09087088&RS=09087088
owner: AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES COMPANY, INC.
number: 09087088
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121113
---
The present disclosure generally relates to constructing relationships between one or more entities and more particularly to constructing a graph based on those relationships.

With the proliferation of the Internet as well as the growing popularity of mobile communication devices marketplaces in which deals e.g. offers recommendations etc. are exchanged e.g. purchased sold traded distributed etc. have grown over time. This deals marketplace has grown quickly but has encountered a number of challenges. For example deals are often poorly tailored to consumers e.g. deals are irrelevant or less relevant to consumers which may lead many consumers to opt out of receiving such deals and or a tendency of consumers to tune out or ignore deals that are received. It would therefore be advantageous to have a system in which one or more merchants are able to accurately tailor relevant deals to one or more consumers.

The present disclosure includes a system method and article of manufacture for generating an entity graph. The method may comprise determining a relationship between a first entity and a second entity based upon internal data external third party data and or online data associated with the first entity and generating the entity graph comprising at least two nodes and an edge connecting the at least two nodes. The method may further comprise in various embodiments tailoring marketing to the first entity based upon the entity graph detecting fraud against the first entity based upon the entity graph managing risk based upon the entity graph recommending products services actions entities items and the like based upon the entity graph periodically updating the entity graph based upon new internal data external third party data and or new online data and or adjusting the edge based upon a change in the relationship between the first entity and the second entity. Further still in various embodiments the method may comprise generating another entity graph between a third entity and a fourth entity and combining the another entity graph with the entity graph to create a universal entity graph. Moreover a node may correspond to an entity while an edge may correspond to a relationship between entities. In various embodiments an edge may be associated with zero or any number of attributes describing relationships between entities.

The detailed description of exemplary embodiments herein makes reference to the accompanying drawings which show the exemplary embodiments by way of illustration and their best mode. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and mechanical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented. Moreover any of the functions or steps may be outsourced to or performed by one or more third parties. Furthermore any reference to singular includes plural embodiments and any reference to more than one component may include a singular embodiment.

The phrases consumer customer user account holder cardmember or the like shall include any person entity business government organization business software hardware machine associated with a transaction account buys merchant offerings offered by one or more merchants using the account and or who is legally designated for performing transactions on the account regardless of whether a physical card is associated with the account. For example the cardmember may include a transaction account owner an transaction account user an account affiliate a child account user a subsidiary account user a beneficiary of an account a custodian of an account and or any other person or entity affiliated or associated with a transaction account. In addition as used herein a user may comprise in various embodiments any person who interacts and or interfaces with a computer system e.g. an organizational and or an employer computer system .

Phrases and terms similar to transaction account may include any account that may be used to facilitate a financial transaction.

Phrases and terms similar to financial institution or transaction account issuer may include any entity that offers transaction account services. Although often referred to as a financial institution the financial institution may represent any type of bank lender or other type of account issuing institution such as credit card companies card sponsoring companies or third party issuers under contract with financial institutions. It is further noted that other participants may be involved in some phases of the transaction such as an intermediary settlement institution.

As used herein phrases and terms similar to an entity may include anything with which a consumer may be associated. For instance an entity may include any individual consumer customer card member group business merchant place brand cuisine interest preference influence or influencer celebrity organization government entity transaction account issuer or processor e.g. credit charge etc. consortium of merchants account holder charitable organization software hardware and or any other type of entity. The terms user consumer purchaser cardmember and or the plural form of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to those persons or entities that are alleged to be authorized to use a transaction account.

Phrases and terms similar to business or merchant may be used interchangeably with each other and shall mean any person entity distributor system software and or hardware that is a provider broker and or any other entity in the distribution chain of goods or services. For example a merchant may be a grocery store a retail store a travel agency a service provider an on line merchant or the like.

Phrases and terms similar to internal data may include any data a credit issuer possesses or acquires pertaining to a particular consumer. Internal data may be gathered before during or after a relationship between the credit issuer and the transaction account holder e.g. the consumer or buyer . Such data may include consumer demographic data. Consumer demographic data includes any data pertaining to a consumer. Consumer demographic data may include consumer name address telephone number email address employer and social security number. Consumer transactional data is any data pertaining to the particular transactions in which a consumer engages during any given time period. Consumer transactional data may include for example transaction amount transaction time transaction vendor merchant and transaction vendor merchant location. Transaction vendor merchant location may contain a high degree of specificity to a vendor merchant. For example transaction vendor merchant location may include a particular gasoline filling station in a particular postal code located at a particular cross section or address. Also for example transaction vendor merchant location may include a particular web address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL an email address and or an Internet Protocol IP address for a vendor merchant. Transaction vendor merchant and transaction vendor merchant location may be associated with a particular consumer and further associated with sets of consumers. Consumer payment data includes any data pertaining to a consumer s history of paying debt obligations. Consumer payment data may include consumer payment dates payment amounts balance amount and credit limit. Internal data may further comprise records of consumer service calls complaints requests for credit line increases questions and comments. A record of a consumer service call includes for example date of call reason for call and any transcript or summary of the actual call.

A system method and or computer program product for constructing an entity graph is disclosed. In various embodiments an entity graph may comprise a graphical representation of one or more relationships between one or more entities. Thus for example an entity graph may illustrate a relationship between one or more customers one or more merchants one or more locations and the like.

With particular reference to system may comprise one or more data sources such as for example one or more graphing pipelines modules engines or systems such as for example one or more graph databases one or more application querying interfaces or modules one or more graph event trigger modules one or more applications or application modules such as for example and or one or more pipeline configuration interface modules .

A data source may comprise any source of data useful for generating an entity graph. More particularly in various embodiments a data source may comprise any online data any offline data and or any internal data. For instance in various embodiments a data source may comprise a transaction table a click stream a mobile application a third party database a public data store and or the like.

A graphing pipeline or graphing pipeline module e.g. each pipeline may comprise any computer system capable of determining a relationship between entities and or generating an entity graph. A graphing pipeline may develop a time series of entity graph snapshots as described herein that show or illustrate trending over time. For instance as described herein a pipeline may periodically update an entity graph. Thus a series of entity graphs may be compiled over time to develop a trending analysis. Further in various embodiments given one or more entities observations associated with the entities timestamps associated with the entities and the like a graphing pipeline may determine whether an edge connecting entities exists. If an edge exists the pipeline may update or adjust the edge. Similarly if the edge does not exist the pipeline may create a new edge connecting entities. Further in either case the pipeline may calculate or determine one or more attributes associated with the edge as described herein. Values associated with an edge may also be calculated in various embodiments in response to the evaluation and or determination of multiple entities and the relationships or edges between those entities. Such calculations or determinations may result in derived entities such as for example marketing segments related to entities.

In various embodiments a graphing pipeline may comprise a merchant graph pipeline an interest graph pipeline a brand graph pipeline a spend graph pipeline and the like. In various embodiments a merchant graph pipeline may generate an entity graph associated with one or more merchants e.g. a graph detailing a relationship between one or more merchants and one or more other entities . Likewise an interest graph pipeline may generate an entity graph associated with one or more interests e.g. a graph detailing a relationship between one or more interests such as golf or Italian food and one or more other entities . For example in various embodiments an interest graph pipeline may comprise an interest graphing system as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 700 850 filed Sep. 13 2012 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AN ANALYSIS CYCLE TO DETERMINE INTEREST MERCHANTS which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Further in various embodiments a brand graph pipeline may generate an entity graph associated with one or more brands e.g. a graph detailing a relationship between one or more brands and one or more other entities . Further still in various embodiments a spend graph pipeline may generate an entity graph associated with a spend or transaction history e.g. a graph detailing a relationship between a consumer s spend history and one or more other entities . In various embodiments a variety of other pipelines may be implemented as well.

A graph database or graph database module may comprise any type of hardware and or software e.g. a computer server configured or configurable to store data and or host a database. For example a graph database may comprise a server appliance running a suitable server operating system e.g. IIS HADOOP LINUX etc. and having database software e.g. SQL Server 2008 an Oracle database one or more distributed and or graph databases such as HBASE JIRAFE and the like stored thereon. A graph database may in various embodiments be coupled to and or interact with a pipeline an application querying interface and or a graph event trigger module as described herein. Further in various embodiments a graph database may store one or more entity graphs. Further still in various embodiments a graph database may include various performance optimizing components and or subcomponents such as for example one or more streaming engines one or more real time or substantially real time caches one or more scheduling capabilities and the like. Moreover in various embodiments a graph database may comprise a relationship application module or engine as described herein. A graph database may also comprise a streaming component or module that interfaces with a pipeline to receive and or pull data into the graph database . In addition a graph database may comprise in various embodiments a real time or substantially real time cache component or module that allows fast responses to communications from an application querying interface module . A graph database may also comprise an interface or interface module configured to communicate with an event trigger module as described herein to detect new edges changes to edges updates to edges edge trends and the like.

An application querying interface module may comprise any hardware software and or system capable of communicating with and or querying a graph database and or an application module . In various embodiments an application querying interface module may include any ability or functionality to read write and or query data and or any ability or functionality to update data and or insert new data.

A graph event trigger module may comprise any hardware software and or system capable of communicating with and or querying an application and or a graph database . In various embodiments a graph event trigger module may comprise an instruction circumstance or set of circumstances which alert application modules that have registered on these events and or may trigger the generation or updating of an entity graph and or cause an entity graph to be generated and or updated. Moreover in various embodiments a graph event trigger module may determine or detect a change to an entity graph such as for example a change to an entity an edge a trend that is emerging or exists in the graph and the like. Thus in various embodiments a graph event trigger module may alert one or more application modules e.g. of a change or changes to an entity graph which may allow an application module to take any suitable action. For example where a graph event trigger module detects a new edge forming between a first city e.g. New York and a second city e.g. London as described herein a travel recommendation application module may be alerted by the trigger. The application module may in response propose suggest or tailor one or more items e.g. merchants restaurants sightseeing tours etc. to a consumer entity for example based upon the new edge in London and or New York.

An application module or engine e.g. a relationship application module or engine or simply a relationship engine may comprise any hardware software and or system capable of generating or determining a relationship between entities and or making a recommendation e.g. of an item or entity based upon an entity graph. Similarly in various embodiments an application module or engine may comprise a marketing campaign a fraud detection modeling application and the like. Thus an application module or engine may determine relationships between entities and these relationships may as described herein contribute to one or more entity graphs. Further in various embodiments an application module may tailor or recommend one or more items or entities to another entity.

A pipeline configuration interface module may comprise any hardware software and or system capable of communicating with an application querying interface module and or a pipeline . In various embodiments a pipeline querying interface module may provide a user interface where parameters controlling how one or more pipelines function may be adjusted either manually or automatically.

Referring broadly now to the process flows logical representations and or screen shots depicted are merely embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and may in various embodiments apply to the system depicted in . It will be appreciated that the following description makes appropriate references not only to the steps depicted in but also to the various system components and or logical representations as described above with reference to .

With reference now to an exemplary process for generating an entity graph is disclosed. As shown an entity graph may be constructed based upon online offline third party and or internal data step . For example in various embodiments an entity graph may be based upon a consumer s offline spend data or transaction history and or a consumer s online behavioral and or transaction data. Thus an entity graph may be based upon a large variety of data and these data may be used to generate a robust and detailed entity graph.

Accordingly in various embodiments and with reference to an entity graph may comprise one or more edges and or one or more nodes . A node may comprise an entity as described herein and an edge may comprise a relationship between two nodes. In various embodiments an edge may have zero or more attributes.

Thus for example a node may represent a merchant such as the merchant Deli A. Similarly a node may represent a city such as New York while a node may represent a consumer e.g. John and a node may represent a location or address associated with a transaction account issuer.

Each edge comprising an entity graph may represent a relationship between two nodes and in various embodiments a node and or an edge may be associated with a variety of attributes and or a vector of attributes such as for example a distance a number of entities connected to a node a type of edge a group of entities coupled to an edge or coupled to another entity or group of entities a network analysis result or results based upon one or more entity relationships and the like. Thus for example in various embodiments an edge may have a length attribute comprising a length of the edge and or a distance between two nodes and the length may represent a correlation between two nodes. More particularly a smaller distance between nodes may represent a stronger correlation or relationship between the nodes and a larger distance between nodes may represent a weaker correlation or relationship between the nodes.

For instance with respect to the entity graph an edge may represent a relationship between the node representing in this example the consumer John and the node representing in this example the city of New York . Further in various embodiments the proximity of a node associated with an entity such as a consumer business or merchant to a node associated with city may indicate that the entity associated with node e.g. the node is also associated with the city e.g. the node and or an inference may be drawn by system that a consumer lives in a particular city or a business is in a particular city based upon a proximity of the node associated with the city to the node associated with the business or consumer. In addition an edge such as the edge may be associated with a value such as a distance and this distance may represent a physical distance between a location associated with the entity represented by a first node and an entity represented by a second node. Thus an edge such as for example edge may be associated with a value of 2.7 miles and this distance may be the distance between the entity associated with the node transaction account issuer A and the entity associated with node Deli A .

Likewise with reference to edge this edge may be associated with a value such as a number of transaction or records of charge ROCs between the consumer associated with node and the restaurant associated with the node Deli A . Further as a number of ROCs between the consumer associated with node and the restaurant associated with the node increases the distance between these nodes and may be reduced so that the nodes may be drawn or graphed more closely together and this may indicate that a relationship between the consumer associated with node and the restaurant associated with the node is strengthening.

An edge may be determined or generated as described herein and in various embodiments based upon any process or algorithm for determining a relationship between two entities or nodes. Thus for example an edge such as the edge may be based simply upon an association between a node like node which represents an entity and a node like node that represents a city and this association may be formed based upon information indicating that the entity associated with the node lives has lived is located and or has been located in the city associated with the node .

Further in various embodiments and as described herein an edge may be generated based upon a collaborative filtering algorithm a fraud detection model or algorithm a marketing campaign algorithm one or more network models any time series trend analysis any machine learning algorithm or algorithms and the like. For instance in various embodiments a process for generating an edge or entity graph and or tailoring marketing may comprise a collaborative filtering process as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 315 262 filed Dec. 23 2005 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Collaborative Filtering of Card Member Transactions which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition in various embodiments a process for generating an edge or entity graph and or tailoring marketing to a consumer may be implemented as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 500 492 filed Aug. 8 2006 and entitled System and Method for Predicting Card Member Spending Using Collaborative Filtering which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Accordingly with returning reference to one or more graphing pipelines may be run to capture data from one or more particular sources e.g. internal data online consumer data such as search history data online spend data browsing data and the like . These pipelines may further as described herein be run to generate one or more entity graphs according to one or more processes or algorithms. Further in various embodiments each pipeline may generate a specific entity graph to graph certain types of relationships and these entity graphs may be referred to as entity subgraphs. For example the merchant graph pipeline may generate an entity subgraph that shows a relationship between one or more merchants and or one or more other entities while an interest graph pipeline may generate a subgraph showing relationships between consumers and one or more interests e.g. dining interests recreational interests travel interests . Similarly a brand graph pipeline may generate a subgraph showing relationships between one or more brands and one or more other entities e.g. between Brand A and consumer B while a spend graph pipeline may generate a subgraph showing relationships between one or more entities and the spending associated with those entities e.g. between a consumer A and the consumer A s spending in terms of a number of ROCs with a merchant entity .

A plurality of entity subgraphs may in various embodiments be combined by the system e.g. by the graph database to form a universal entity graph which may show the relationships between entities generated by all or a portion of the entity graph pipelines and or other pipelines . Each pipeline may further update and or regenerate one or more existing entity subgraphs based upon additional or newly acquired entity data. For example as a consumer s transaction history develops and changes an entity graph pipeline may update create and or recreate an entity subgraph based upon this new data. Entity subgraphs may be updated and or generated on a on a periodic basis and or in response to the receipt or accessibility by the system of new or updated data. Thus entity subgraphs may adapt and evolve as relationships between entities develop and change. For instance edges and nodes may be created deleted and or altered over time.

With reference to an exemplary entity graph or subgraph database structure is shown. An entity graph database structure may in various embodiments comprise a relational database structure. Thus as shown an entity graph database structure may comprise a version timestamp row key a column family a column a value and the like. A version timestamp may in various embodiments allow or enable the comparison of different versions of data within a graph database structure to perform trending analysis and or other time based data analysis graphing and or exploration. A row key may comprise an identifier e.g. a unique identifier and or a primary key associated with an entity. For instance in various embodiments a row key may comprise a primary key associated with a merchant or service establishment e.g. as shown at the row key associated with the merchant se10 is 1234567899 .

Further a column family may include data associated with a particular entity e.g. the merchant se10 . Data under the column family column may include data about the entity and or in various embodiments data about which entities or nodes a particular entity is associated with or related to. Thus where the entity se10 is related to a brand or a location this information may be included in column . Further under this column the entities or nodes with which the entity identified by the primary row key may be summarized at a group level. For instance column may identify a consumer associated with a deli e.g. Deli A as a consumer associated with an interest group such as delicatessens sandwiches dining out and the like.

A column may like the data identified under column family include data associated with the particular entity and or the relationships between that entity and other entities. However the data under column may be more granular or specific than the data under column . Thus for example the data under column may include one or more specific relationships between the particular entity identified by the row key and other entities. For instance as shown a specific name address city location primary key brand primary row key and the like may be included under column .

Under the value column information specifying an entity s particular information may be stored. For example column may include an entity s specific name e.g. Fitness Merchant A an entity s specific address the specific entities that the entity is related to e.g. Fitness Brand Z and the like.

In various embodiments and with returning attention to the system may through an entity graph identify one or more trigger opportunities step . Further in various embodiments the system may identify a change or alteration in a graph or graph structure and or a changing trend between for example multiple versions of an entity graph and or within a single version of an entity graph over time. A trigger opportunity may comprise an opportunity to market or recommend an entity to another entity an operational risk assessment and or management opportunity detection of fraud and the like. For example a trigger opportunity may comprise in various embodiments an opportunity to market a merchant and or a merchant s product to a consumer. A trigger opportunity may be identified by the system based upon a change to an entity graph. More particularly the system may monitor one or more entity graphs e.g. a universal or combined entity graph as described herein . Further in response to detecting a change to the entity graph or entity graphs being monitored e.g. a change to an edge a change to a node and the like the system may market or recommend an entity to another entity.

To illustrate the system may induce or create a new edge and or confirm or adjust an existing edge in response to a purchase by an entity comprising a consumer for a trans Atlantic flight from New York to London. The edge may associate the consumer with both New York and London and the distance between the nodes identifying each city may be adjusted such that they are closer together and thus more strongly interrelated for this consumer on an entity graph for the consumer. The interest graph for the consumer may in addition show an affinity of the consumer for a variety of other entities and the system may therefore market tailor adjust etc. one or more of these other entities and or items associated with these entities to the consumer while the consumer is in London. The system may identify these entities based upon a search of an entity graph associated with the city of London for entities that are based upon the entity graph of the consumer associated with or related to the consumer.

Further in various embodiments system may not search an entity graph. Rather as described herein system e.g. the graph database may detect a new or updated edge. In response to detecting such an edge system may trigger one or more applications e.g. in essence informing each triggered application that the edge exists and or has changed. The applications may in turn utilize or communicate with one or more other aspects or components of system e.g. any of the pipelines to retrieve and or receive one or more relevant entities. Thus as described herein where a consumer lives in New York and visits London the consumer may be associated with an edge between the consumer and the city of New York. In response to the consumer s plans to travel and or actual travel to London e.g. in response to the purchase of an airline ticket to London the system may create or update an edge between the consumer and London and the edge may in various embodiments include one or more attributes about the consumer s travel e.g. travel dates . The graph event trigger module may detect the newly created or updated edge between the consumer and London in the underlying graph database and alert or notify one or more applications of the change. In various embodiments the applications that are notified or alerted may be registered to receive the notification. For instance where the notification relates to travel as described herein an application registered to receive travel alerts may receive such a notification.

In another example the system may monitor the entity graph associated with a consumer to detect and prevent unauthorized access to the consumer s transaction account information and or fraud against the consumer. For instance as the system monitors the consumer s entity graph the system may detect the creation of a new node which is relatively distant from any other node in the consumer s entity graph e.g. the system may associate the consumer with a quick service or low cost node so when a node is created that is associated with a high end or expensive item the system may alert the consumer to the possibility of fraud .

Thus the system may utilize a large variety of data associated with an entity such as a consumer e.g. internal data offline data online data to build a picture or entity graph of the interests and associations of the consumer and the system may using this graph and or the data underlying the graph e.g. is discussed with reference to protect and assist the consumer. Consumers are therefore able to receive highly relevant and tailored offers based upon the systems and methods described herein. Moreover the system may in addition to a variety of other functionalities offer consumers greater protection from fraud.

Systems methods and computer program products are provided. In the detailed description herein references to various embodiments one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. After reading the description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the disclosure in alternative embodiments.

Any communication transmission and or channel discussed herein may include any system or method for delivering content e.g. data information metadata etc. and or the content itself. The content may be presented in any form or medium and in various embodiments the content may be delivered electronically and or capable of being presented electronically. For example a channel may comprise a website or device e.g. Facebook YOUTube AppleTV Pandora xBox Sony Playstation a uniform resource locator URL a document e.g. a Microsoft Word document a Microsoft Excel document an Adobe .pdf document etc. an ebook an emagazine an application or microapplication as described herein an SMS or other type of text message an email facebook twitter MMS and or other type of communication technology. In various embodiments a channel may be hosted or provided by a data partner. In various embodiments the distribution channel may comprise at least one of a merchant website a social media website affiliate or partner websites an external vendor a mobile device communication social media network and or location based service. Distribution channels may include at least one of a merchant website a social media site affiliate or partner websites an external vendor and a mobile device communication. Examples of social media sites include Facebook Foursquare Twitter MySpace LinkedIn and the like. Examples of affiliate or partner websites include American Express Groupon LivingSocial and the like. Moreover examples of mobile device communications include texting email and mobile applications for smartphones.

In various embodiments the methods described herein are implemented using the various particular machines described herein. The methods described herein may be implemented using the below particular machines and those hereinafter developed in any suitable combination as would be appreciated immediately by one skilled in the art. Further as is unambiguous from this disclosure the methods described herein may result in various transformations of certain articles.

For the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical system.

The various system components discussed herein may include one or more of the following a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data an input digitizer coupled to the processor for inputting digital data an application program stored in the memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital data processed by the processor and a plurality of databases. Various databases used herein may include client data merchant data financial institution data and or like data useful in the operation of the system. As those skilled in the art will appreciate user computer may include an operating system e.g. Windows NT Windows 95 98 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 OS2 UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers.

The present system or any part s or function s thereof may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. However the manipulations performed by embodiments were often referred to in terms such as matching or selecting which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein. Rather the operations may be machine operations. Useful machines for performing the various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

In fact in various embodiments the embodiments are directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. The computer system includes one or more processors such as processor. The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement various embodiments using other computer systems and or architectures. Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a display unit.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as for example random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory. The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive. As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In various embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system. Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface. Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system.

Computer systems may also include a communications interface. Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface. These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link wireless and other communications channels.

The terms computer program medium and computer usable medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive. These computer program products provide software to computer system.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory. Computer programs may also be received via communications interface. Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of various embodiments. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system.

In various embodiments software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive hard disk drive or communications interface. The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of various embodiments as described herein.

In various embodiments hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In various embodiments the server may include application servers e.g. WEB SPHERE WEB LOGIC JBOSS . In various embodiments the server may include web servers e.g. APACHE IIS GWS SUN JAVA SYSTEM WEB SERVER .

A web client includes any device e.g. personal computer which communicates via any network for example such as those discussed herein. Such browser applications comprise Internet browsing software installed within a computing unit or a system to conduct online transactions and or communications. These computing units or systems may take the form of a computer or set of computers although other types of computing units or systems may be used including laptops notebooks tablets hand held computers personal digital assistants set top boxes workstations computer servers main frame computers mini computers PC servers pervasive computers network sets of computers personal computers such as iPads iMACs and MacBooks kiosks terminals point of sale POS devices and or terminals televisions or any other device capable of receiving data over a network. A web client may run Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari or any other of the myriad software packages available for browsing the internet.

Practitioners will appreciate that a web client may or may not be in direct contact with an application server. For example a web client may access the services of an application server through another server and or hardware component which may have a direct or indirect connection to an Internet server. For example a web client may communicate with an application server via a load balancer. In an exemplary embodiment access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate a web client includes an operating system e.g. Windows NT 95 98 2000 CE Mobile OS2 UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS PalmOS etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with computers. A web client may include any suitable personal computer network computer workstation personal digital assistant cellular phone smart phone minicomputer mainframe or the like. A web client can be in a home or business environment with access to a network. In an exemplary embodiment access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package. A web client may implement security protocols such as Secure Sockets Layer SSL and Transport Layer Security TLS . A web client may implement several application layer protocols including http https ftp and sftp.

In various embodiments components modules and or engines of system may be implemented as micro applications or micro apps. Micro apps are typically deployed in the context of a mobile operating system including for example a Palm mobile operating system a Windows mobile operating system an Android Operating System Apple iOS a Blackberry operating system and the like. The micro app may be configured to leverage the resources of the larger operating system and associated hardware via a set of predetermined rules which govern the operations of various operating systems and hardware resources. For example where a micro app desires to communicate with a device or network other than the mobile device or mobile operating system the micro app may leverage the communication protocol of the operating system and associated device hardware under the predetermined rules of the mobile operating system. Moreover where the micro app desires an input from a user the micro app may be configured to request a response from the operating system which monitors various hardware components and then communicates a detected input from the hardware to the micro app.

As used herein the term network includes any cloud cloud computing system or electronic communications system or method which incorporates hardware and or software components. Communication among the parties may be accomplished through any suitable communication channels such as for example a telephone network an extranet an intranet Internet point of interaction device point of sale device personal digital assistant e.g. iPhone Palm Pilot Blackberry cellular phone kiosk etc. online communications satellite communications off line communications wireless communications transponder communications local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN networked or linked devices keyboard mouse and or any suitable communication or data input modality. Moreover although the system is frequently described herein as being implemented with TCP IP communications protocols the system may also be implemented using IPX Appletalk IP 6 NetBIOS OSI any tunneling protocol e.g. IPsec SSH or any number of existing or future protocols. If the network is in the nature of a public network such as the internet it may be advantageous to presume the network to be insecure and open to eavesdroppers. Specific information related to the protocols standards and application software utilized in connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled in the art and as such need not be detailed herein. See for example Dilip Naik Internet Standards and Protocols 1998 Java 2 Complete various authors Sybex 1999 Deborah Ray and Eric Ray Mastering HTML 4.0 1997 and Loshin TCP IP Clearly Explained 1997 and David Gourley and Brian Totty HTTP The Definitive Guide 2002 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The various system components may be independently separately or collectively suitably coupled to the network via data links which includes for example a connection to an Internet Service Provider ISP over the local loop as is typically used in connection with standard modem communication cable modem Dish networks ISDN Digital Subscriber Line DSL or various wireless communication methods see e.g. Gilbert Held Understanding Data Communications 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference. It is noted that the network may be implemented as other types of networks such as an interactive television ITV network. Moreover the system contemplates the use sale or distribution of any goods services or information over any network having similar functionality described herein.

 Cloud or Cloud computing includes a model for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud computing may include location independent computing whereby shared servers provide resources software and data to computers and other devices on demand. For more information regarding cloud computing see the NIST s National Institute of Standards and Technology definition of cloud computing at http csrc.nist.gov publications nistpubs 800 145 SP800 145.pdf last visited June 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As used herein transmit may include sending electronic data from one system component to another over a network connection. Additionally as used herein data may include encompassing information such as commands queries files data for storage and the like in digital or any other form.

As used herein issue a debit debit or debiting refers to either causing the debiting of a stored value or prepaid card type financial account or causing the charging of a credit or charge card type financial account as applicable.

Phrases and terms similar to an item may include any good service information experience data content access rental lease contribution account credit debit benefit right reward points coupons credits monetary equivalent anything of value something of minimal or no value monetary value non monetary value and or the like.

The system contemplates uses in association with web services utility computing pervasive and individualized computing security and identity solutions autonomic computing cloud computing commodity computing mobility and wireless solutions open source biometrics grid computing and or mesh computing.

Any databases discussed herein may include relational hierarchical graphical or object oriented structure and or any other database configurations. Common database products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM Armonk N.Y. various database products available from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft Access or Microsoft SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. MySQL by MySQL AB Uppsala Sweden or any other suitable database product. Moreover the databases may be organized in any suitable manner for example as data tables or lookup tables. Each record may be a single file a series of files a linked series of data fields or any other data structure. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL using a key field in the tables to speed searches sequential searches through all the tables and files sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in pre selected databases or data sectors. Various database tuning steps are contemplated to optimize database performance. For example frequently used files such as indexes may be placed on separate file systems to reduce In Out I O bottlenecks.

More particularly a key field partitions the database according to the high level class of objects defined by the key field. For example certain types of data may be designated as a key field in a plurality of related data tables and the data tables may then be linked on the basis of the type of data in the key field. The data corresponding to the key field in each of the linked data tables is preferably the same or of the same type. However data tables having similar though not identical data in the key fields may also be linked by using AGREP for example. In accordance with one embodiment any suitable data storage technique may be utilized to store data without a standard format. Data sets may be stored using any suitable technique including for example storing individual files using an ISO IEC 7816 4 file structure implementing a domain whereby a dedicated file is selected that exposes one or more elementary files containing one or more data sets using data sets stored in individual files using a hierarchical filing system data sets stored as records in a single file including compression SQL accessible hashed via one or more keys numeric alphabetical by first tuple etc. Binary Large Object BLOB stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC 7816 6 data elements stored as ungrouped data elements encoded using ISO IEC Abstract Syntax Notation ASN.1 as in ISO IEC 8824 and 8825 and or other proprietary techniques that may include fractal compression methods image compression methods etc.

In one exemplary embodiment the ability to store a wide variety of information in different formats is facilitated by storing the information as a BLOB. Thus any binary information can be stored in a storage space associated with a data set. As discussed above the binary information may be stored on the financial transaction instrument or external to but affiliated with the financial transaction instrument. The BLOB method may store data sets as ungrouped data elements formatted as a block of binary via a fixed memory offset using either fixed storage allocation circular queue techniques or best practices with respect to memory management e.g. paged memory least recently used etc. . By using BLOB methods the ability to store various data sets that have different formats facilitates the storage of data associated with the financial transaction instrument by multiple and unrelated owners of the data sets. For example a first data set which may be stored may be provided by a first party a second data set which may be stored may be provided by an unrelated second party and yet a third data set which may be stored may be provided by an third party unrelated to the first and second party. Each of these three exemplary data sets may contain different information that is stored using different data storage formats and or techniques. Further each data set may contain subsets of data that also may be distinct from other subsets.

As stated above in various embodiments the data can be stored without regard to a common format. However in one exemplary embodiment the data set e.g. BLOB may be annotated in a standard manner when provided for manipulating the data onto the financial transaction instrument. The annotation may comprise a short header trailer or other appropriate indicator related to each data set that is configured to convey information useful in managing the various data sets. For example the annotation may be called a condition header header trailer or status herein and may comprise an indication of the status of the data set or may include an identifier correlated to a specific issuer or owner of the data. In one example the first three bytes of each data set BLOB may be configured or configurable to indicate the status of that particular data set e.g. LOADED INITIALIZED READY BLOCKED REMOVABLE or DELETED. Subsequent bytes of data may be used to indicate for example the identity of the issuer user transaction membership account identifier or the like. Each of these condition annotations are further discussed herein.

The data set annotation may also be used for other types of status information as well as various other purposes. For example the data set annotation may include security information establishing access levels. The access levels may for example be configured to permit only certain individuals levels of employees companies or other entities to access data sets or to permit access to specific data sets based on the transaction merchant issuer user or the like. Furthermore the security information may restrict permit only certain actions such as accessing modifying and or deleting data sets. In one example the data set annotation indicates that only the data set owner or the user are permitted to delete a data set various identified users may be permitted to access the data set for reading and others are altogether excluded from accessing the data set. However other access restriction parameters may also be used allowing various entities to access a data set with various permission levels as appropriate.

The data including the header or trailer may be received by a stand alone interaction device configured to add delete modify or augment the data in accordance with the header or trailer. As such in one embodiment the header or trailer is not stored on the transaction device along with the associated issuer owned data but instead the appropriate action may be taken by providing to the transaction instrument user at the stand alone device the appropriate option for the action to be taken. The system may contemplate a data storage arrangement wherein the header or trailer or header or trailer history of the data is stored on the transaction instrument in relation to the appropriate data.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems devices servers or other components of the system may consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption decryption compression decompression and or the like.

Encryption may be performed by way of any of the techniques now available in the art or which may become available e.g. Twofish RSA El Gamal Schorr signature DSA PGP PKI GPG GnuPG and symmetric and asymmetric cryptosystems.

The computing unit of the web client may be further equipped with an Internet browser connected to the Internet or an intranet using standard dial up cable DSL or any other Internet protocol known in the art. Transactions originating at a web client may pass through a firewall in order to prevent unauthorized access from users of other networks. Further additional firewalls may be deployed between the varying components of CMS to further enhance security.

A firewall may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to protect CMS components and or enterprise computing resources from users of other networks. Further a firewall may be configured to limit or restrict access to various systems and components behind the firewall for web clients connecting through a web server. A firewall may reside in varying configurations including Stateful Inspection Proxy based access control lists and Packet Filtering among others. Firewall may be integrated within an web server or any other CMS components or may further reside as a separate entity. A firewall may implement network address translation NAT and or network address port translation NAPT . A firewall may accommodate various tunneling protocols to facilitate secure communications such as those used in virtual private networking. A firewall may implement a demilitarized zone DMZ to facilitate communications with a public network such as the Internet. A firewall may be integrated as software within an Internet server any other application server components or may reside within another computing device or may take the form of a standalone hardware component.

The computers discussed herein may provide a suitable website or other Internet based graphical user interface which is accessible by users. In one embodiment the Microsoft Internet Information Server IIS Microsoft Transaction Server MTS and Microsoft SQL Server are used in conjunction with the Microsoft operating system Microsoft NT web server software a Microsoft SQL Server database system and a Microsoft Commerce Server. Additionally components such as Access or Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Sybase Informix MySQL Interbase etc. may be used to provide an Active Data Object ADO compliant database management system. In one embodiment the Apache web server is used in conjunction with a Linux operating system a MySQL database and the Perl PHP and or Python programming languages.

Any of the communications inputs storage databases or displays discussed herein may be facilitated through a website having web pages. The term web page as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that might be used to interact with the user. For example a typical website might include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets JavaScript active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS AJAX Asynchronous Javascript And XML helper applications plug ins and the like. A server may include a web service that receives a request from a web server the request including a URL http yahoo.com stockquotes ge and an IP address 123.56.789.234 . The web server retrieves the appropriate web pages and sends the data or applications for the web pages to the IP address. Web services are applications that are capable of interacting with other applications over a communications means such as the internet. Web services are typically based on standards or protocols such as XML SOAP AJAX WSDL and UDDI. Web services methods are well known in the art and are covered in many standard texts. See e.g. Alex Nghiem IT Web Services A Roadmap for the Enterprise 2003 hereby incorporated by reference.

Middleware may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to facilitate communications and or process transactions between disparate computing systems. Middleware components are commercially available and known in the art. Middleware may be implemented through commercially available hardware and or software through custom hardware and or software components or through a combination thereof. Middleware may reside in a variety of configurations and may exist as a standalone system or may be a software component residing on the Internet server. Middleware may be configured to process transactions between the various components of an application server and any number of internal or external systems for any of the purposes disclosed herein. WebSphere MQ formerly MQSeries by IBM Inc. Armonk N.Y. is an example of a commercially available middleware product. An Enterprise Service Bus ESB application is another example of middleware.

Practitioners will also appreciate that there are a number of methods for displaying data within a browser based document. Data may be represented as standard text or within a fixed list scrollable list drop down list editable text field fixed text field pop up window and the like. Likewise there are a number of methods available for modifying data in a web page such as for example free text entry using a keyboard selection of menu items check boxes option boxes and the like.

The system and method may be described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the system may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of the system may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C C Java JavaScript VBScript Macromedia Cold Fusion COBOL Microsoft Active Server Pages assembly PERL PHP awk Python Visual Basic SQL Stored Procedures PL SQL any UNIX shell script and extensible markup language XML with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that the system may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like. Still further the system could be used to detect or prevent security issues with a client side scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like. For a basic introduction of cryptography and network security see any of the following references 1 Applied Cryptography Protocols Algorithms And Source Code In C by Bruce Schneier published by John Wiley Sons second edition 1995 2 Java Cryptography by Jonathan Knudson published by O Reilly Associates 1998 3 Cryptography Network Security Principles Practice by William Stallings published by Prentice Hall all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

As used herein the term end user consumer customer cardmember business or merchant may be used interchangeably with each other and each shall mean any person entity government organization business machine hardware and or software. A bank may be part of the system but the bank may represent other types of card issuing institutions such as credit card companies card sponsoring companies or third party issuers under contract with financial institutions. It is further noted that other participants may be involved in some phases of the transaction such as an intermediary settlement institution but these participants are not shown.

Each participant is equipped with a computing device in order to interact with the system and facilitate online commerce transactions. The customer has a computing unit in the form of a personal computer although other types of computing units may be used including laptops notebooks hand held computers set top boxes cellular telephones touch tone telephones and the like. The merchant has a computing unit implemented in the form of a computer server although other implementations are contemplated by the system. The bank has a computing center shown as a main frame computer. However the bank computing center may be implemented in other forms such as a mini computer a PC server a network of computers located in the same of different geographic locations or the like. Moreover the system contemplates the use sale or distribution of any goods services or information over any network having similar functionality described herein

The merchant computer and the bank computer may be interconnected via a second network referred to as a payment network. The payment network which may be part of certain transactions represents existing proprietary networks that presently accommodate transactions for credit cards debit cards and other types of financial banking cards. The payment network is a closed network that is assumed to be secure from eavesdroppers. Exemplary transaction networks may include the American Express VisaNet and the Veriphone networks.

The electronic commerce system may be implemented at the customer and issuing bank. In an exemplary implementation the electronic commerce system is implemented as computer software modules loaded onto the customer computer and the banking computing center. The merchant computer does not require any additional software to participate in the online commerce transactions supported by the online commerce system.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the system may be embodied as a customization of an existing system an add on product a processing apparatus executing upgraded software a stand alone system a distributed system a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly any portion of the system or a module may take the form of a processing apparatus executing code an internet based embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of the internet software and hardware. Furthermore the system may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROM optical storage devices magnetic storage devices and or the like.

The system and method is described herein with reference to screen shots block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus e.g. systems and computer program products according to various embodiments. It will be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows webpages websites web forms prompts etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may comprise in any number of configurations including the use of windows webpages web forms popup windows prompts and the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be combined into single webpages and or windows but have been expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be separated into multiple webpages and or windows but have been combined for simplicity.

The term non transitory is to be understood to remove only propagating transitory signals per se from the claim scope and does not relinquish rights to all standard computer readable media that are not only propagating transitory signals per se. Stated another way the meaning of the term non transitory computer readable medium and non transitory computer readable storage medium should be construed to exclude only those types of transitory computer readable media which were found in In Re Nuijten to fall outside the scope of patentable subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any elements that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of the disclosure. The scope of the disclosure is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. Moreover where a phrase similar to at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B or C is used in the claims or specification it is intended that the phrase be interpreted to mean that A alone may be present in an embodiment B alone may be present in an embodiment C alone may be present in an embodiment or that any combination of the elements A B and C may be present in a single embodiment for example A and B A and C B and C or A and B and C. Although the disclosure includes a method it is contemplated that it may be embodied as computer program instructions on a tangible computer readable carrier such as a magnetic or optical memory or a magnetic or optical disk. All structural chemical and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiments that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover it is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present disclosure for it to be encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore no element component or method step in the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. As used herein the terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus.

In yet another embodiment the transponder transponder reader and or transponder reader system are configured with a biometric security system that may be used for providing biometrics as a secondary form of identification. The biometric security system may include a transponder and a reader communicating with the system. The biometric security system also may include a biometric sensor that detects biometric samples and a device for verifying biometric samples. The biometric security system may be configured with one or more biometric scanners processors and or systems. A biometric system may include one or more technologies or any portion thereof such as for example recognition of a biometric. As used herein a biometric may include a user s voice fingerprint facial ear signature vascular patterns DNA sampling hand geometry sound olfactory keystroke typing iris retinal or any other biometric relating to recognition based upon any body part function system attribute and or other characteristic or any portion thereof.

Phrases and terms similar to account account number account code or consumer account as used herein may include any device code e.g. one or more of an authorization access code personal identification number PIN Internet code other identification code and or the like number letter symbol digital certificate smart chip digital signal analog signal biometric or other identifier indicia suitably configured to allow the consumer to access interact with or communicate with the system. The account number may optionally be located on or associated with a rewards account charge account credit account debit account prepaid account telephone card embossed card smart card magnetic stripe card bar code card transponder radio frequency card or an associated account.

The system may include or interface with any of the foregoing accounts devices and or a transponder and reader e.g. RFID reader in RF communication with the transponder which may include a fob or communications between an initiator and a target enabled by near field communications NFC . Typical devices may include for example a key ring tag card cell phone wristwatch or any such form capable of being presented for interrogation. Moreover the system computing unit or device discussed herein may include a pervasive computing device which may include a traditionally non computerized device that is embedded with a computing unit. Examples may include watches Internet enabled kitchen appliances restaurant tables embedded with RF readers wallets or purses with imbedded transponders etc. Furthermore a device or financial transaction instrument may have electronic and communications functionality enabled for example by a network of electronic circuitry that is printed or otherwise incorporated onto or within the transaction instrument and typically referred to as a smart card a fob having a transponder and an RFID reader and or near field communication NFC technologies. For more information regarding NFC refer to the following specifications all of which are incorporated by reference herein ISO IEC 18092 ECMA 340 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol 1 NFCIP 1 ISO IEC 21481 ECMA 352 Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol 2 NFCIP 2 and EMV 4.2 available at http www.emvco.com default.aspx.

The account number may be distributed and stored in any form of plastic electronic magnetic radio frequency wireless audio and or optical device capable of transmitting or downloading data from itself to a second device. A consumer account number may be for example a sixteen digit account number although each credit provider has its own numbering system such as the fifteen digit numbering system used by American Express. Each company s account numbers comply with that company s standardized format such that the company using a fifteen digit format will generally use three spaced sets of numbers as represented by the number 0000 000000 00000 . The first five to seven digits are reserved for processing purposes and identify the issuing bank account type etc. In this example the last fifteenth digit is used as a sum check for the fifteen digit number. The intermediary eight to eleven digits are used to uniquely identify the consumer. A merchant account number may be for example any number or alpha numeric characters that identify a particular merchant for purposes of account acceptance account reconciliation reporting or the like.

In various embodiments an account number may identify a consumer. In addition in various embodiments a consumer may be identified by a variety of identifiers including for example an email address a telephone number a cookie id a radio frequency identifier RFID a biometric and the like.

The terms payment vehicle financial transaction instrument transaction instrument and or the plural form of these terms may be used interchangeably throughout to refer to a financial instrument.

Phrases and terms similar to a buyer may include any entity that receives goods or services in exchange for consideration e.g. financial payment . For example a buyer may purchase lease rent barter or otherwise obtain goods from a supplier and pay the supplier using a transaction account.

Phrases similar to a payment processor may include a company e.g. a third party appointed e.g. by a merchant to handle transactions. A payment processor may include an issuer acquirer authorizer and or any other system or entity involved in the transaction process. Payment processors may be broken down into two types front end and back end. Front end payment processors have connections to various transaction accounts and supply authorization and settlement services to the merchant banks merchants. Back end payment processors accept settlements from front end payment processors and via The Federal Reserve Bank move money from an issuing bank to the merchant bank. In an operation that will usually take a few seconds the payment processor will both check the details received by forwarding the details to the respective account s issuing bank or card association for verification and may carry out a series of anti fraud measures against the transaction. Additional parameters including the account s country of issue and its previous payment history may be used to gauge the probability of the transaction being approved. In response to the payment processor receiving confirmation that the transaction account details have been verified the information may be relayed back to the merchant who will then complete the payment transaction. In response to the verification being denied the payment processor relays the information to the merchant who may then decline the transaction. Phrases similar to a payment gateway or gateway may include an application service provider service that authorizes payments for e businesses online retailers and or traditional brick and mortar merchants. The gateway may be the equivalent of a physical point of sale terminal located in most retail outlets. A payment gateway may protect transaction account details by encrypting sensitive information such as transaction account numbers to ensure that information passes securely between the customer and the merchant and also between merchant and payment processor.

