---

title: Cloud based contact center platform powered by individual multi-party conference rooms
abstract: The present disclosure includes a system and method for handling customer service requests in a virtual computing environment supporting multimedia interactions. In some embodiments, the system includes an automated management tool for receiving a customer service request from a client device, a server for establishing an individualized communication session, and a plurality of available resources capable of being connected to the individualized communication session. In some embodiments, the method includes receiving and establishing a connection between an automated management tool and a client device, receiving a customer service request from the client device, establishing an individualized communication session, and providing resources to the individualized communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08406155&OS=08406155&RS=08406155
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08406155
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
Traditional contact centers which are examples of a point of contact POC for a customer seeking assistance for a product or service generally rely on traditional communication systems. Conventional contact center platforms route customer service requests to various contact center resources such as interactive voice response IVR bridges agent s telephones etc. that are connected using a traditional exchange or switch such as a private branch exchange PBX or a Softswitch. If a customer is routed to one resource e.g. IVR bridge but fails to achieve full satisfaction it may be necessary to route the customer to another resource e.g. an agent to complete the interaction. In a conventional call center platform connecting between the various resources is accomplished by sequentially transferring or handing off the customer to required resources via the exchange or switch.

Routing a customer service request using a conventional contact center platform generally proceeds in the following manner. First a user initiates a service request by calling the contact center. The customer s call is accepted by for example the call center s PBX. The PBX routes the customer to a first resource which may be an IVR bridge. The IVR bridge performs an initial interaction with the customer and extracts customer information and choices in order to determine whether the customer requires additional resources. In some instances the IVR is able to accumulate and dispense the necessary information to resolve the call. Often the IVR bridge determines that it is necessary for the customer to interact with an agent or be transferred to other resources. In such transfers the customer is returned to the PBX which places the customer in a queue until an agent or other resource becomes available. Once an agent or other resource becomes available the customer is transferred to that agent or resource. Depending upon the complexity of the service request the agent may require additional resources to service the customer such as authorization from the agent s supervisor and the customer is again transferred. Transferring the customer among resources continues until the service request is satisfied or the service request is terminated.

Thus in a conventional contact center platform the customer is sequentially transferred to the next required resource via an exchange or switch such as a PBX or Softswitch. As such the customer s interaction with the contact center is subject to the limitations of the PBX or Softswitch which include the tendency to unintentionally terminate the service request drop the call . In addition the pattern of transfer wait and connect can be repeated so often that customer satisfaction is negatively impacted. Tracking of the caller can also be adversely affected since the caller is continually transferring through the exchange or switch.

Separately such traditional systems are limited if the customer s needs change over the course of the service request. Since the customer is sequentially transferred among resources it becomes difficult to provide selected resources in real time. Consequently such traditional systems often cannot adequately manage the contact center resources and guarantee that the customer is being serviced by the appropriate resource at a given point of time during the service request.

Additional limitations can include the inability to permit the user to access a body of resources while on a call. The communications of such traditional contact centers are often limited to voice and IVR menus. When the customer is transferred to an agent the agent might be able to connect a wider selection of resources but transfers are often misapplied and the calls are lost. Further in such cases the time that the user remains waiting is lost. In such time periods the customer is essentially locked down.

The limitations of such traditional systems have resulted in customers long dreading such calls. The calls being driven through the IVR traditionally take so long that even if a call is not dropped as a result of a failed transfer it is dropped as the caller moves into a zone of limited connectivity as when the caller is using their cell phone in a moving car.

The present disclosure includes a system and method for handling customer service requests in a virtual computing environment supporting multimedia interactions. A first embodiment describes a system for handling customer service requests in a virtual computing environment supporting multimedia interaction. The system comprises a contact center manager connected to a client device and receiving a customer service request from a customer a server connected to the contact center manager and establishing an individualized communication session with the client device such individualized communication session having a particular address and a plurality of available resources capable of being connected with the individualized communication session with the client device at the particular address.

In this embodiment the contact center manager is configured to identify a selected resource among the available resources and facilitate connection of the selected resource with the individualized communication session having the particular address. Additionally the client device is not required to be transferred but remains in connection with the individualized communication session as the selected resource is joined with the individualized communication session.

The contact center manager may be configured to transfer a plurality of available resources into the individualized communication session and to remove a plurality of available resources out of the individualized communication session.

In some instances the contact center manager is configured to transfer a plurality of available resources into the individualized communication session in parallel and remove a plurality of available resources out of the individualized communication session in parallel.

Another embodiment describes a system for handling a customer service request in a virtual computing environment supporting multimedia communications sessions. The system comprises a client device configured to accept a customer service request from a customer a server configured to host a multimedia communication session at a virtual location wherein the client device is connected to the server via a communications channel a contact center manager associated with the server wherein the contact center manager receives the customer service request from the client device instructs the server to initiate the multimedia communications session at the virtual location and provides routing information that permits the customer to be routed to the virtual location.

The system further comprises a plurality of resources associated with the contact center manager wherein the contact center manager is configured to couple at least one of the plurality of resources to the multimedia communication session without transferring the customer from the virtual location.

In some instances the contact center manager is configured to transfer a plurality of resources into the multimedia communications session at the virtual location in parallel. In some instances the contact center manager is configured to remove a plurality of resources out of the multimedia communications session at the virtual location.

Another embodiment describes a method at a client device for requesting service in a virtual computing environment supporting multimedia interaction comprising initiating a service request sending the service request to a contact center located in the virtual computing environment establishing a connection with a contact center manager participating in an individualized communication session between a server connected to the contact center manager the individualized communication session having a particular address and receiving and consuming at least one of a plurality of resources configured to associate and dissociate with the individualized communication session wherein the plurality of resources are configured to resolve the service request.

In a preferred embodiment the method further comprises remaining in the individualized communication session at the particular address as the plurality of resources associate and dissociate with the individualized communication session until the service request is resolved. In some instances a plurality of resources are received and consumed in the individualized communication session in parallel.

In an exemplary embodiment a contact center platform establishes a cloud based multi media interaction with a customer. A customer is permitted to navigate to a contact center through IP selections and connections. Where traditional phone connections are utilized the customer may dial a phone number and be connected through a Contact Center Bell CCB .

In the contact center platform environment a user is permitted to establish a multimedia production environment in which two or more individuals may interact in the same virtual location. Such contact center platform supports diverse communication tools to interact collaborate and or share information. In an contact center environment the location established as a virtual hangout is hosted by one or more servers that support communications sessions with user machines equipped with resources such as microphones and video cameras. For example individuals participating in a contact center session may share and watch videos participate in video audio or text chat surf the web seek or provide assistance regarding a particular problem or any combination thereof.

When an individual desires to establish a contact center interaction in a virtual environment the individual employs a client device to either initiate a virtual contact center session or join an existing virtual contact center session. When establishing a new virtual contact center session the individual invites others to join the session. Typically to join an existing virtual contact center session each participant must be invited. Invitations arrive for example via e mail text messaging service or any other suitable means. An individual can request to join an existing contact center session even though he or she has not received an invitation assuming the URL for the session is known. Additionally individuals participating in a virtual contact center session may cause the session to link to external resources and integrate those external resources into the participants graphical user interface GUI .

In one exemplary embodiment a user initiates contact with the contact center platform indicating the desirability of establishing a session. Based on nascent characteristics of the initiation such as the button pushed the phone number called or the phone number dialed the request may be handled in different manners. For example in the case of an IP initiation a contact center manager CCM communicates with a room coordinator to identify a session reference e.g. a JID for a new session location. The user is then permitted to establish an individualized contact center session in the virtual environment.

The user is not transferred from the individual contact center session under most circumstances. Instead resources are directed to the location and then combined into a multimedia or multisource platform. In some exemplary embodiments resources are derived from different servers such as a media server and then provided to the contact center session. The signals from the user as well as such other resources are collected by a reflector and then consolidated into a single real time protocol RTP session comprising multiple independent streams.

For example in a hypothetical scenario a user might establish a contact center session with a particular location and identifier which may comprise a JID or URL or other address. As an initial step an IVR application may be directed to the contact center session where it may interact with the user. Depending on the nature of the communication link with the user audio audio video multimedia etc the contact center session and the IVR application can send content tailored to the user. At the end of the IVR the user might need a contact center agent. Rather than transferring the call the CCM initiates a connection between the contact center agent and the contact center session by directing the agent to the session location. When there depending on the resources of the user the contact center agent may initiate diverse resources such as video playback internet access etc. During the interims the user is not placed on hold but is permitted to interact in the contact center session where there might be games and other entertainment. Since the connection of the user to the contact center session is not transferred or otherwise redirected the connection is very stable. This facilitates much greater stability in the call center session and increases customer satisfaction. In the hypothetical scenario just described additional contact center resources e.g. customer service agents customer service supervisors customers seeking similar assistance session recording devices etc. may be used in addition to or in combination with the IVR. In some instances applying resources to the session in parallel reduces the duration of time required to resolve the customer service request.

An exemplary multimedia production environment is described in detail with respect to . The illustrated environment is presented as an example and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other group networking environments. To the contrary the description contemplates all implementations of multimedia production environments that route external multimedia resources into and out of multimedia communications sessions in the multimedia production environment.

Turning to an exemplary client device is connected to a call center communication session supporting a multimedia production environment that enables communication among various resources. Examples of client device include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. In some embodiments two or more client devices are the same type of device. Similarly resource devices A C include similar communications. For example client device and resource device A may both be mobile telephones. In other embodiments two or more client and resource devices are different types of devices. For example client device may be a mobile telephone and resource device B may be a desktop computer.

In the embodiment illustrated by the client device communicates with a server via a communications channel . The communications channel typically includes an Internet connection between the client and the server . The server often comprises multiple physical servers such as a communications server for maintaining or hosting one or more communication sessions such as contact center communications session . Of course each server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine.

In one exemplary embodiment the client maintains or hosts a contact center communications session and other resource devices such as resource devices A C in are routed to the communication session at the client by server or the like. Additionally while depicted as a single device in in some embodiments server includes a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at different physical locations.

Communication sessions such as communications session at the communications server are supported by an environment defined by a runtime engine executing at the server. For example the runtime engine may be Google s App Engine. The runtime engine provides the platform for the contact center session and supplies resources required for user interaction. The resources of the application engine are available to the contact center session by way of an application programming interface API .

The client of includes application s communications client output device e.g. a display and input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . Application s provide the client with a variety of functionality. Generally application s employ the output device to display information at a graphical user interface GUI . In alternative exemplary embodiments the resources include other persons and application initiated content such as IVRs etc.

The communications client further includes a communications module that enables output device to display information at the GUI . The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the communications server allowing user in to establish or join a hangout session. Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client to a network such as the Internet using standard network protocol techniques. The communications resource A C may also include similar functionality as communications client . However other resources are included in exemplary embodiments. In this manner a client and multiple potential resource devices A C may join the same contact center communications session hosted at the communications server . Through the communications session the communications module at the client enables the user to reside in a location where other resources may be provided or may be selected to join the session.

Once a contact center communications session is established a session channel between the communications client and the communications server exchanges data such as audio video text and or other information. In some embodiments the data exchanged between the communications client and the communications server is optimized based at least in part on the hardware and or software capabilities of client device . For example if the client is a mobile device connecting through to the communications session by way of a bandwidth limited path such as a cellular network communications server may optimize the number and quality of the audio video text and or other information sent to client device . Furthermore communications client may dynamically adjust the bit rate required to send the information to communications server by for example reducing the quality of the audio video text and or other information being sent to communications server .

GUI is an illustrative example of a GUI from which a contact center communications session may be initiated and sustained. In the illustrated embodiment GUI includes information about one or more other resources connected to user by the contact center communications session . The GUI may also include information about other resources user may access notifications of events and other information relevant to user .

In order to establish or join a contact center communications session user interacts with GUI to cause communications client to generate a request to create a new communications session or join an existing communications session. For example GUI may include a Get Help button that user activates in order to create a new contact center communications session. In response to user activating the Get Help button communications client sends a request to initiate a new communications session to communications server which establishes a new contact center communications session.

As the new session is initiated various resources such as resources A C in may be directed to the session as needed without the user being transferred. For example an IVR may be initiated as a resource A. The IVR may permit the user to hear communications directed at identifying and solving the help issues identified by the user . As the IVR provides its resource a CCM can receive information that is processed to determine other resources e.g. B C that should be provided. As the resources are provided the user is not required to have disruption of service.

In one alternative exemplary embodiment user may request to join an existing contact center communications session . The user selects a join prior contact center icon at the GUI and selects a session from a displayed list of available contact center sessions at the GUI or selects a join contact center icon displayed in an external source such as an instant message or posting. However communicated to the user in response to user initiating an attempt to join an existing virtual hangout session communications client sends a request to join the communications session to the communications server . The request includes an identifier of the particular communications session . The identifier may be included in the join link for the virtual contact center. Communications server connects communications client to the specified communications session .

Referring now to one particular example of client device is illustrated. In general many other embodiments of the client may be used as long as they support at least limited participation in the communications sessions. In the illustrated embodiment of the client includes one or more processors memory a network interface one or more storage devices power source output device and input device . The client also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client. In a conventional fashion each of components and are interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

As illustrated processors are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within client device . For example processors execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory maintains program instructions for execution by the processors .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB. In some embodiments the client uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The client includes one or more input devices . Input device is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device . Output device is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output device may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

The client includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client. Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source . As illustrated in communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module typically includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In some exemplary embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of the operating system executing on the client . In other embodiments communications client receives input from one or more of the input devices of the client . Communications client preferably receives audio and video information associated with a communications session from other client devices participating in the communication session.

The communications client causes GUI to display a user selectable icon . Non limiting examples of the icon are a virtual or graphical button such as a key of a virtual keyboard a touch target a physical button of client device or a button on an input device coupled to client device such as a mouse button a button on a mobile device or a key of a keyboard. Of course GUI may include other graphical controls as well.

The graphical user interface GUI of is an example of the GUI of client of . However the graphical display of may be outputted using other devices. A client application supporting contact center sessions is typically web based contained within an internet browser session. The application exposes a number of features to the user through the GUI. These graphically displayed features include a video display of one or more resources in the session. A chat feature is also provided including a chat history and a field where a user can such as user input text to the chat conversation. GUI is also configured to display graphical images that are associated with resources in the session. Graphical images may include images of agents currently participating in the contact center session. Exit button is provided so that the user may terminate the contact center communications session as desired.

Referring to in one embodiment an application programming interface API of an Application Engine or App Engine provides many resources to the communications session e.g. a hangout session . In turn the App Engine depends on resources provided from an API exposed by an Resources Infrastructure Layer and a Networking Layer which are supported by the server and their Operating Systems . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer connect HTTP requests from the user to the communications sessions such as communications session . The App Engine also provides a runtime environment for the communications sessions. Administrative support for the communications sessions are provided by the a Contact Center Manager CCM in the App Engine . The App Engine also provides access to a database in the Resource Infrastructure Layer for persistent storage requirements of the communications sessions.

Through its API the App Engine provides the communications sessions access to resources on the Internet such as web services or other data. The App Engine retrieves web resources using the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The communications sessions also send and receive messages using the App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a cache which is useful for temporary data or data copied from the datastore to the cache for high speed access. The Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a file system and scheduling resources. An example of the App Engine Google s App Engine. An example of the Resource Infrastructure Layer the Networking Infrastructure and the Operating System is Google s supporting infrastructure and operating system for its App Engine.

In the embodiment described by a customer seeking assistance with a product or service associated with contact center places the call using a client device. As mentioned in the description of exemplary client devices include but are not limited to one or more portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. Depending upon the client device that the customer uses during the service request information exchanged between the customer and the contact center via in the virtual hangout environment may take the form of audio video text and or any combination thereof. The CM receives the call and notifies the CCM that a new service request has been received at contact center . In some embodiments the CM transfers attributes of the call e.g. information in header files to the CCM for analysis.

The CCM of which organizes communication among the various components of contact center routes the call to virtual hangout maintained by the server . The virtual hangout may be a new or an existing communications session that is identified by a unique identifier or address e.g. a unique JID. The virtual hangout resides in the multimedia production environment hosted by the server . In some embodiments some or all of the computing environment described in is used by the contact center . In some instances virtual hangout is described as a virtual location where the customer may interact with one or more contact center resources including and the customer placing the call is described as residing at the virtual location. In preferred embodiments once the call is transferred to the virtual hangout e.g. once the customer resides at the virtual location it is not necessary to transfer the call out of the virtual hangout . Rather in preferred embodiments the call is maintained in the virtual hangout until the service request is resolved.

In the embodiment described by once a customer resides at a virtual location e.g. the virtual hangout contact center resources including are transferred into and out of virtual hangout by the CCM in order to assist the customer and resolve the service request. Contact center resources may be transferred into and removed from virtual hangout in parallel based upon the needs and complexity of the service request. In some embodiments resources executing inside a virtual hangout communicate with CCM by transferring information associated with the service call and other data to the CCM . In some instances when the CCM determines that a specific resource is required in a specific communications session the CCM passes an instruction which may include the unique identifier of the session to the specific resource directing the specific resource to associate with the identified session. Of course embodiments of the invention envisage assisting a plurality of customers in a plurality of virtual hangouts simultaneously.

At step the contact center receives the service request initiated by the customer and places the customer into a virtual hangout session. In some embodiments the contact center uses connection manager such as the CM of to receive the call and notify a management tool such as the CCM of of the service request. In these embodiments the CCM establishes and monitors all active and inactive virtual hangout sessions maintained by the contact center. In response to receiving notification of a new service request the CCM may either establish a new virtual hangout session or route the customer to an existing virtual hangout session.

In some embodiments CCM establishes a new virtual hangout for each new customer service request. Thus once notified of a new request the CCM establishes a new virtual hangout generates a new hangout identification number e.g. JID and routes the customer into the newly established virtual hangout. In this embodiment the CCM invites an automated human computer interaction unit into the virtual hangout in order to extract attributes including preliminary information from the customer that may be used to assess the service request. Preliminary information includes but is not limited to personal information about the customer e.g. name account number account status etc. the products or services that customer is requesting assistance with or any other information that may be helpful to determine the cause of the service request and the resources required to satisfy the request. In some embodiments the automated human computer interaction unit is an IVR. An IVR extracts preliminary information from the customer by executing a script comprising predetermined questions. The IVR records the customer s responses and reports the information to the CCM.

In another embodiment upon receiving notification of a new service request the CCM determines if there are any available customer service agents in existing virtual hangout sessions. In some instances existing virtual hangouts are inactive because the customer service agent is the only individual currently participating in the virtual hangout. In the case that there is an available customer service agent in an existing virtual hangout the CCM routes the customer to the existing virtual hangout and the customer service agent extracts attributes including preliminary information and other data from the customer. In this embodiment the CCM establishes a new virtual hangout session routes the customer to the new virtual hangout session and transfers an IVR to extract preliminary information when there are no available customer service agents upon receiving notification of a new service request.

Alternatively or in addition to the previously described embodiments upon receiving notification of a new service request the CCM determines if there are existing virtual hangout sessions that are directed to resolving the same or a similar service request. In the case where one or more such virtual hangout session s exist the CCM provides the customer making the new service request with the option of joining the existing virtual hangout. Providing the customer with the option to join includes but is not limited to presenting the customer with an interactive list e.g. a list of URLs that the customer may select from presenting the customer with one more join existing service call button s etc. In some instances if the customer chooses to join an existing virtual hangout session the customer is routed to the selected virtual hangout session and interacts with one or more other customers in addition to the contact center resources. In other instances if the customer does not elect to join the existing virtual hangout the CCM places the customer in a virtual hangout session as described above.

At step the CCM receives and analyzes the attributes and determines the contact center resources that are required to service the customer. In some embodiments the CCM refers to a predetermined list of business rules to determine the contact center resources that are required and available to service the customer. Once the appropriate resources have been identified the CCM determines which resources are currently available to assist the customer and transfers one or more available resources into the virtual hangout. For example upon receiving preliminary information the CCM may determine that a recorder and a customer service agent are necessary to service the customer. In this case both resources are transferred into the virtual hangout in parallel. Alternatively a customer service agent may not be immediately available. In this case the CCM may transfer music and or a video into the virtual hangout in order to entertain the customer during wait periods.

At step the CCM monitors the virtual hangout session and determines if additional resources need to be transferred into the virtual hangout. In some embodiments resources executing inside the virtual hangout continuously update the CCM with additional information relevant to the service request. The additional information includes but is not limited to status updates suggestions regarding additional resources required to service the customer and whether a resource has completed its task and should be removed from the virtual hangout. Similar to step the CCM analyzes the additional information and determines the contact center resources that are required and available to service the customer. For example a customer service agent executing inside a virtual hangout may determine that one or more supervisors are required to complete the customer service request. In this case the customer service agent notifies the CCM and when available the CCM transfers the supervisors into the virtual hangout. The CCM monitors adds and removes contact center resources in the virtual hangout until the service request is satisfied.

At step the CCM determines that the customer service request has been satisfied removes any resources still executing inside the virtual hangout and terminates the virtual hangout thus terminating the service request.

As described in unlike conventional contact center platforms where customers are routed to resources in a sequential manner the contact center platform described in accordance with embodiments of this disclosure route contact center resources to virtual hangouts where customers reside. Additionally resources may be delivered to and removed from virtual hangouts in parallel based upon the needs and complexity of service requests. Once an communications session has been established it is not necessary to transfer the customer out of the session until the service request is resolved.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

