---

title: Method and apparatus for dynamic media streaming
abstract: The invention can be a computerized method for creating a composite media program. The method can include receiving from a first user over a network at least a first media segment, wherein the first media segment includes a first plurality of media frames. The method can also include receiving from a second user over the network at least a second media segment, wherein the second media segment includes a second plurality of media frames. Finally, the method includes automatically combining at least the first media segment and the second media segment into the composite media program including a series of media segments, wherein the composite media program is available for viewing by at least a set of members of a social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286937&OS=09286937&RS=09286937
owner: mitú Inc.
number: 09286937
owner_city: Culver City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120822
---
This invention relates generally to the field of computerized user groups social networks and dynamic media streaming.

There are a variety of types of online user groups and social networks in existence today. Users are able to follow members of their social networks and can view pictures videos and share information. Typically users can share pictures or videos by capturing the pictures videos and then uploading them manually to the online social network. Members of the social network can then view the pictures videos.

Social networks typically do not include any automated ways of uploading pictures videos. In addition once pictures videos are uploaded there is no way of automatically combining these pictures videos.

According to one embodiment the invention is a computerized method for creating a composite media program. The method can include receiving from a first user over a network at least a first media segment wherein the first media segment includes a first plurality of media frames. The method can also include receiving from a second user over the network at least a second media segment wherein the second media segment includes a second plurality of media frames. Finally the method includes automatically combining at least the first media segment and the second media segment into the composite media program including a series of media segments wherein the composite media program is available for viewing by at least a set of members of a user group. The method can be performed in a server that is connected through a network to a plurality of user devices. The media segment can be for example a video clip that includes a series of images which can be media frames . The media segment could also include sound. This method allows the members of the social network to follow the users in an automated manner. The user group can be any group of users that have common interests common demographics a common location or other common characteristics. The user group can also be a social network. Such a social network can have privacy protections to allow users to keep information including media segments restricted to only certain users. In other embodiments the invention can be a computer readable medium that contains instructions that when executed perform the steps set forth above.

Another embodiment of the invention is also a computerized method for creating a composite media program. In this embodiment the invention includes receiving from a user over a network at least a first media segment wherein the first media segment includes a first plurality of media frames. The invention also includes receiving from the user over the network at least a second media segment wherein the second media segment includes a second plurality of media frames. The first media segment and the second media segment are automatically combined into the composite media program wherein the composite media program includes a series of media segments. The method also includes making the composite media program available for viewing only by a set of members of a user group that includes the user. In other embodiments the invention can be a computer readable medium that contains instructions that when executed perform the steps set forth above.

Yet another embodiment is a computerized method for creating a media segment in a mobile device. This method includes capturing a plurality of media frames with the mobile device and automatically combining the plurality of media frames into the media segment where each segment includes a plurality of frames. The media segment is then stored in storage located on the mobile device. The media segment can then be automatically transmitted to a network server wherein a user of the mobile device can override the transmission if not desired. The user can for example override the transmission by deleting the media segment prior to transmission. In other embodiments the invention can be a computer readable medium that contains instructions that when executed perform the steps set forth above.

To address the need set forth above according to one aspect the invention includes a communications network interface such as a web server for interacting with a plurality of users for implementing the functionality of some embodiments of the invention.

More specifically as can be seen in the system of the instant invention includes user computers associated with users a communications network and an aggregator computer also called a server . As one skilled in the art will appreciate user computers can be any type of computing device such as a desktop a laptop a PDA a smartphone a computer tablet a networked computer display or any other electronic device capable of connecting to the communications network and receiving data from the network to enable system interaction with the user . During operation the aggregator computer receives media segments from one or more of the user computers . The aggregator computer then automatically combines the media segments in an integrated manner into a composite media program and then makes the composite media program available for viewing by at least some of the users . The system can be used to create real time motion visuals for sharing moments in life. The term media is used in a broad sense to refer to any type of data including graphics images and audio and or video. The media segment can be for example a video clip with sound that includes a series of images which can be media frames . The composite media program in turn can be any type of combination of media segments. Such a composite media program can be for example a video that consists of a series of media segments that can be played back in succession.

As previously mentioned the user computers are connected to the aggregator computer via communications network which may be a single communications network or comprised of several different communications networks. As such communications network can be a public or private network which can be any combination of the internet and intranet systems that allow a plurality of system users to access the computer . For example communications network can connect all of the system components using the internet a local area network LAN e.g. Ethernet or WI FI or wide area network WAN e.g. LAN to LAN via internet tunneling or a combination thereof and using electrical cable e.g. HomePNA or power line communication optical fiber and radio waves e.g. wireless LAN to transmit data. As one skilled in the art will appreciate in some embodiments user computers may be networked together using a LAN for a university home apartment building etc. but may be connected to the aggregator computer via an internet tunneling to implement a WAN. In other instances all of the user computers and the aggregator computer may connect using the internet. Still in other implementations a user may connect to the aggregator using e.g. wireless LAN and the internet. Moreover the term communications network is not limited to a single communications network system but may also refer to separate individual communications networks used to connect the user computers to aggregator computer . Accordingly though each of the user computers and aggregator computer are depicted as connected to a single communications network such as the internet an implementation of the communications network using a combination of communications networks is within the scope of the invention.

As one skilled in the art will appreciate the communications network may interface with the aggregator computer to provide a secure access point for users and to prevent users from accessing the various protected databases in the system. In some embodiments a firewall may be used and it may be a network layer firewall i.e. packet filters application level firewalls or proxy servers. In other words in some embodiments a packet filter firewall can be used to block traffic from particular source IP addresses source ports destination IP addresses or ports or destination services like www or FTP though a packet filter in this instance would most likely block certain source IP addresses. In other embodiments an application layer firewall may be used to intercept all packets traveling to or from the system and may be used to prevent certain users i.e. users restricted or blocked from system access from accessing the system. Still in other embodiments a proxy server may act as a firewall by responding to some input packets and blocking other packets.

An aggregator computer will now be described with reference to . As one skilled in the art will appreciate aggregator computer can be any type of computer e.g. an application server or a plurality of computers comprising a memory a database a program product a processor and an input output device I O device . I O device connects the aggregator computer to a signal from the communications network and can be any I O device including but not limited to a network card controller connected by a PCI bus to the motherboard or hardware built into the motherboard to connect the aggregator computer to various file servers or database servers implementing database .

As can be seen the I O device is connected to the processor . Processor is the brains of the aggregator computer and as such executes program product and works in conjunction with the I O device to direct data to memory and to send data from memory to the various file servers and communications network including the database . Processor can be e.g. any commercially available processor or plurality of processors adapted for use in an aggregator computer e.g. Intel Xeon multicore processors Intel micro architecture Nehalem AMD Opteron multicore processors etc. As one skilled in the art will appreciate processor may also include components that allow the aggregator computer to be connected to a display not shown and keyboard that would allow for example an administrative user direct access to the processor and memory .

Memory may be any computer readable medium that can store the algorithms forming the computer instructions of the instant invention and data and such memory may consist of both non volatile memory e.g. hard disks flash memory optical disks and the like and volatile memory e.g. SRAM DRAM SDRAM etc. as required by embodiments of the instant invention. As one skilled in the art will appreciate though memory is depicted on e.g. the motherboard of the aggregator computer memory may also be a separate component or device e.g. FLASH memory or other storage connected to the aggregator computer . The database can operate on the memory to store media segments and combined media segments in the manner described herein.

Referring again to the device can include for example a speaker a microphone a display a camera and a keyboard . In some embodiments a touch screen device may be used such that the device does not include a traditional keyboard . The speaker and microphone can be optional devices that need not be used. The speaker may be the same speaker used by the device for other functions such as for a telephone speaker or a speaker for music or other audio features. In addition the microphone may be the same microphone used by the device for other functions such as for telephone calls. The display and keyboard can be the same structures used for other functions. The camera can be the standard camera contained by the device . Such a camera can be used for instance to capture still shots or video clips as described herein. Accordingly the invention does not require any special purpose hardware but can instead be used with the hardware that is available on most smart phones or tablets.

The memory can be any standard memory device a computer readable medium such as NAND or NOR flash memory or any other type of memory device known in the art. The memory stores instruction programs . These instruction programs can be the code that performs the functions described above and below for the user device . During operation the instructions can be executed by the processor in order to perform the functions described herein. The database can be used to store media frames and media segments captured on the device as described in greater detail below. The I O device can be used to input or output data to the device such as by wireless transmitting data either by cellular or by Wi Fi or other methods to the network .

In operation the code for performing the functions of the device can be loaded onto the device . The code to perform these functions can be stored either before or after being loaded on device on a computer readable medium. When loaded onto a device and executed the code can perform the logic described above and in the sections below.

The media segments can be bundled as compressed packets for efficient transport to the server particularly where the user device is a wireless device that transmits data wirelessly to the network. This allows for efficient transmission over a range of connectivity i.e. from 3G to WiFi . In addition in some embodiments the user device will user power saving methods to conserve power for the transmission of one or more media segments to the server . If for instance a wireless quality level is low for a wireless network continually trying to transmit the one or more media segments to the network can wear down the battery of the user s device. The user s device can therefore be programmed to determine a quality level of a connection of the mobile device to a network and then perform the step of automatically transmitting only when the quality level is above a predetermined threshold.

As an example the user can capture a series of visual images media frames with the camera of the user device . In this example each visual image or photograph can be considered a media frame. The user device can combine these media frames into one media segment. In for example 13 media frames are assembled into a single media segment . The number of frames that make up a segment can vary within the scope of the invention.

During the capture process time information and or location information and or person information and or subject matter information i.e. tag information can be captured and associated with one or more media segments. For instance each segment can be marked with the time at which the images were captured. This allows each media segment to have a time associated with it and after transmission to the server this time information can be used to assemble media segments captured within the same general time period. Further the location information that can be appended to each segment can be for example geo location information such as GPS information or other information about the location of the user device at the time of capture. The person information can be the identity of the user of the user device . The location information and the person information like the time information can be used by the server to assemble media segments for playback. For instance the server can assemble the media segments with the same location information for playback and the server can also assemble media segments from the same user for playback. Finally the subject matter information can include a descriptor from the user relating to the media segment such as food poker fishing a child etc. . . . This can allow the server to assemble media segments that have the same subject matter into a composite media program.

In addition a graphical user interface can be presented that allows the user to postpone transmission to the server for some period of time such as 1 10 or 24 hours. In typical operation the user device will transmit a media segment after some set period of time such as 15 minutes. In other words the user device will be programmed to automatically upload the media segments to the server as a background service that is invisible entirely or largely to the user. During this time window the user can override this transmission by selecting the segment and either deleting it or changing its time for transmission changing a transmission time can give the user additional time to decide for example to delete the media segment . In still other embodiments a user can set editing rules. These editing rules can allow for the user device to automatically combine the media frames using the predetermined editing rules. For example the user can set the editing rules so that no more than 5 or 10 frames are assembled into a media segment so that no sound is assembled into the media segment or so that all media segments are assembled in black and white only.

In another embodiment of all media segments are saved on the user device locally. The edit bar can show the number of media segments that are available for viewing. For instance shows that there are four media segments available for viewing. Upon clicking the media segments tab the user interface can display each of the available media segments. The user can then select and edit them as described above.

In another embodiment of the user interface can provide a tag information window not shown to allow a user to enter tagged information for a media segment. For instance a user can tag a media segment as relating to baseball poker a child or another topic. The user interface can also provide choices for common topics to allow users to easily tag media segments as relating to particular topics.

Next in block the aggregator computer makes the combined media segments available for viewing. For example in one embodiment the aggregator computer can make the combined media segments also called composite media programs available for viewing by any user. In other embodiments the aggregator computer can make the composite media programs available for viewing only by members of a particular user group. Such a user group can be for example a particular social network. The phrase social network is used in much of the description below but this description also applies to a user group where a user group can have broader applicability than a social network. This can keep the user s media segments somewhat private in that the public at large will not be able to view the composite media programs in this embodiment. The process ends at block .

Within the embodiments described above media segments can be combined at the server level for easy viewing by users. This combining of media segments can be done on the fly or in advance. For instance on the fly combinations can be performed when a user wishes to view media segments through the system. If the user selects a topic location time or user group the server can combine the media segments on the fly and present them to the user. In addition the combination of media segments can be performed in advance of a request for viewing by a particular user.

In some embodiments the server can combine media segments along with other types of media segments that are not captured by users of the system. For instance the media segments captured by users can be combined with media from sources such as the Internet. As one specific example if a users tag media segments as relating to a home run by the San Francisco Giants these tagged media segments can be combined along with other media relating to home runs by the San Francisco Giants that is available on the Internet.

First as shown in block media segments can be combined into composite media programs based on location information. For example if the media segment s for the first user and the media segments s for the second user and for additional users if more are present were captured in the same location the media segments can be combined based on location to create a composite media program that includes the media segments from the same location. In this example for instance media segments from the first and second users can be combined only if they were tagged as being captured in the same location. for example shows that media segments have been combined into a composite media program because these media segments were all captured in San Francisco. Similarly shows that media segments have been combined into a composite media program because these media segments were all captured in Los Gatos Calif. As previously described the location information can be included in each media segment at the time of capture based on for example GPS information or other location providing services. In block therefore a composite media segment can be created based on that location information associated with media segments from more than one user.

Second as shown in block of media segments can be combined into composite media programs based on time information. For example if the media segment s for the first user and the media segments s for the second user and for additional users if more are present were captured at the same general time the media segments can be combined based on time to create a composite media program that includes the media segments from the same general time. In this example for instance media segments from the first and second users can be combined only if they were tagged as being captured at generally the same time or within the same period of time. The aggregator computer can combine into a composite media program for example all media segments received within a one hour time window i.e. 3 4 pm PT on June 12 . Other time periods i.e. part of a day a full day or a week can also be used.

Third as shown in block of media segments can be combined into composite media programs based on social network. For example if the first user and the second user and additional users if more are present are part of the same social network then media segments from these users can be combined to form a composite media program. In this example for instance media segments from the first and second users can be combined only if the two users are part of the same social network. For example if the first user and second user are part of the same social network then media segments for these two users can be combined and assembled based on capture time into a composite media program. Participants in the social network can then view this composite media program to learn what members of their social network have done.

Fourth as shown in block of media segments can be combined into composite media programs based on tag information. For example if the first user and the second user and additional users if more are present each tag one of their media segments as relating to a specific topic i.e. food poker fishing a child the World Series etc. . . . then media segments having these tags can be combined to form a composite media program. In this example for instance media segments from the first and second users can be combined only if two media segments have the same tag information. For example if the first user and second user each tag individual media segments as relating to fishing these media segments for these two users can be combined and assembled into a composite media program. Users can then view these composite media programs based on the tagged topic. This allows a user to view what is going on for a particular topic.

The examples set forth above combine media segments only if a certain criteria is met i.e. time location social network or tag information . In some embodiments a subset or all of these criteria can be used to combine media segments. For instance media segments can be combined based on location information and tag information such that media segments from the same location and having the same tag information will be combined. In addition time and or social network can be factored into the decision as to whether to combine media segments. Any combination of the criteria i.e. time location social network or tag information can be used to combine media segments.

More than one of the bases for forming combinations described above in connection with steps and of can be used in forming a composite media program. For instance media segments from the users of a given social network and captured within the same day can be combined to form a composite media segment. In addition media segments from the users of a given social network and captured within the same day in the same location can be combined to form a composite media segment. As such any combination of the basis for combining media segments can be used to form the composite media program.

After media segments are combined in the manner set forth above the aggregator computer can make the composite media program available for viewing. This is shown in block of . For instance the composite media program can be crafted in a manner so that it can be made available to any number of viewers over a cellular wireless or landline connection. The flow of then ends as shown in block .

Several additional features can be used in the methods and system described above. For example the aggregator computer can unpack and display media segments are based on user selected visibility privacy settings. For example if the user who captured a media segment desires that the media segment only be available to a small or selected set of other users the user can select those users prior to upload to the server . For example a graphical user interface can be displayed to the user to allow the user to select other users who can see the media segment. In addition if no such selections are made by the user the media segment can in one embodiment be viewed by any user or the public at large after upload. In still other embodiments after upload to the server users are always able to go back and remove individual media segments so that they will no longer be visible to others. For example if a first user captured a media segment and uploaded it to the server that user would be able to go back later and delete the media segment so that other users could not view it.

In some embodiments of the invention set forth above upon making the composite media programs available for viewing the composite media programs can be distributed from the server to other user devices via the Web. In some embodiments as described above in connection with about 13 media frames can be captured in about 10 seconds and formed into one media segment. During playback from the server this media segment when combined into a composite media program can be arranged into a stream that is viewable at a much faster speed that it case captured i.e. captured in 10 sec played back in 

As described above users can decide to mark each media segment as either private or public via for example a graphical user interface at the user device . If marked as public any user can view that media segment when compiled into a composite media program and made available for viewing at the server . If marked as private in one embodiment no other user aside from the user who captured the media segment can view it during playback from the server . In still other embodiments when marked as private only members of a selected social network or networks that include the user who captured it can view the media segment.

In some embodiments public sharing of media segments i.e. sharing via the server of media segments that are marked for public sharing can take place in a number of ways. First if a user decides to follow a person the user can see media segments from that person. For example the server can assembled all media segments from that person into a composite media program for viewing by the user. This allows the user to follow the selected person and if media streams are uploaded in real time a user can follow the person in real time. Second public media segments can be tagged with a special category indicator that can later be used for forming combinations of media segments at the server . For instance all media segments relating to a specific type of food can be marked with a special tag and then combined at the server or all media segments related to poker can be tagged and combined. This allows users to following media segments that relate i.e. tag media segments to particular topics food poker fishing a child etc. . . . . Third media segments can be assembled as public streams based on random sampling. In this embodiment the server can automatically combine media segments based on subject matter information associated with each media segment where the media segments are combined only if the subject matter information associated with each is the same.

The method and system described above can also allow for comment posting by users. For example if the viewer of a composite media program likes or is interested in certain media segments the viewer can post comments about those media segments. This allows other viewers of the same media segments to see those comments. In addition the capturing process can be set up so that each media segment captured by a given user within a predetermined time period i.e. with the same 10 minutes or same hour can be tagged as being associated with one another. When a viewer adds a comment for one of these media segments each associated media segment can have the same comment added.

As set forth above the invention can be a system or platform for capturing and combining media segments for viewing by users. The platform can include a series of services modules and application programming interfaces APIs that shape methods and elements for viewing. The media segments can be captured on mobile devices and shared via the Web to members of various social networks. This can allow users to dynamically capture and share media segments so that each segment is created and then aggregated so that it can be presented in an integrated manner. Media segments can be uploaded in real time after being captured and then sorted by various variables such as time location social networks or tags for assembly for viewing. This allows for example a user to view public media segments for persons visiting a specific restaurant where the restaurant is identified by either geo location or by a tag . In addition all media segments relating to home runs at a particular baseball stadium can be tagged so that the server can compile a composite media segment relating to the home runs. The embodiments can allow for the creation of multiple channels for media curation.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated in the foregoing illustrative embodiments it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of implementation of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Features of the disclosed embodiments can be combined and rearranged in various ways.

