---

title: Firestopping sealing means for use with gypsum wallboard in head-of-wall construction
abstract: A sealing gasket for use attached preferably to the topmost edge of gypsum board when used as construction wallboard. The gasket includes a support leg section capable of being mounted in engagement with preferably the uppermost edge of the gypsum board. The gasket includes a sealing leg extending outwardly from said leg section which includes an intumescent component to facilitate sealing between the edge of the gypsum board and the wall structure above. In one embodiment the sealing leg includes an intumescent impregnated paper material covered with a structurally enhancing layer. An adhesive layer can be included to attach the gasket to the gypsum wallboard. The sealing leg in this embodiment has an “A” or “P” profile and will extend upwardly and inwardly over the upper edge of the gypsum board at an obtuse angle with respect to the support leg for sealing thereabove in the head-of-wall area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08584415&OS=08584415&RS=08584415
owner: Specified Technologies Inc.
number: 08584415
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121120
---
The present utility application hereby formally claims priority of currently pending U.S. Provisional Patent application No. 61 270 839 filed Jul. 14 2009 on SEALING MEANS FOR GYPSUM WALLBOARD filed by the inventors James P. Stahl Jr. et al and assigned to SPECIFIED TECHNOLOGIES INC. of Somerville N.J.

The present utility application also hereby formally claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent application No. 61 277 335 filed Sep. 23 2009 on PLANAR SEALING MEANS FOR GYPSUM WALLBOARD filed by inventors James P. Stahl Jr. et al and assigned to SPECIFIED TECHNOLOGIES INC. of Somerville N.J.

The present utility application hereby formally claims priority of currently pending U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 803 667 filed Jul. 1 2010 on FIRESTOPPING SEALING MEANS FOR USE WITH GYPSUM WALLBOARD IN HEAD OF WALL CONSTRUCTION filed by the inventors James P. Stahl Jr. et al and assigned to SPECIFIED TECHNOLOGIES INC. of Somerville N.J.

The above three referenced patent applications are hereby formally incorporated by reference as an integral part of the present application

The present invention deals with the field of firestop sealing devices positionable between the upper edge of the gypsum wallboard and the lower edge of a floor located thereabove commonly defined as the head of wall area of building construction. Many of these floor configurations can have various shapes and designs and a need exists for a means of sealing this area in the event of a fire to prevent passage of unwanted flames heat and gases therebetween. The present invention is particularly useful when attached with respect to any of the commonly available top of wall constructions. The flexibly resilient intumescent gasket of the present design is very useful for the purpose of replacing the common current practice of utilizing filler materials such as caulk or firestopping mastic materials in the otherwise opened head of wall joint areas beneath floor and above the gypsum wallboard therebelow. Use of such materials is labor intensive and the quality of the final fire seal is greatly dependent on the skill level of the on site worker.

Many patents have been granted for various constructions for the purpose of sealing the opened head of wall joint areas between gypsum wallboard and the lower surface of a floor or ceiling construction located immediately thereabove such as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 2 109 655 patented Mar. 1 1938 to J. Sylvan on a Building Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 2 111 634 patented Mar. 22 1938 to G. F. Kotrbaty and assigned to Ferrocon Corporation on a Building Structure And Joint Therefor and U.S. Pat. No. 2 180 317 patented Nov. 14 1939 to C. F. Davis and assigned to American Cyanamid Chemical Corporation on a Metal Decking and U.S. Pat. No. 2 291 616 patented Aug. 4 1942 to J. Fletcher and assigned to The Plastergon Wall Board Company on a Method Of Coating Webs and U.S. Pat. No. 2 616 866 to W. Juda and assigned to Pyrotron Development Corporation on a Fire Retardant and U.S. Pat. No. 2 717 062 patented Sep. 6 1955 to L. F. Dusing et al and assigned to Dusing Hunt Inc. F. H. Saino Manufacturing Company on a Fire Door and U.S. Pat. No. 2 915 150 patented Dec. 1 1959 to R. W. Weidler on a Basement Assembly And Prefabricated Structural Units Therefor and U.S. Pat. No. 2 926 928 patented Mar. 1 1960 to W. Bennett and assigned to Utility Trailer Manufacturing Company on a Unitary Floor And Frame Structure For Vehicles and U.S. Pat. No. 3 062 338 patented Nov. 6 1962 to E. J. De Ridder et al and assigned to Reynolds Metals Company on Double Faced Panels and U.S. Pat. No. 3 151 663 patented Oct. 6 1964 to W. A. Bohner et al and assigned to General Motors Corporation on an Inflatable Closure Apparatus and U.S. Pat. No. 3 170 269 patented Feb. 23 1965 to J. B. Dunnington and assigned to Butler Manufacturing Company on a Base Channel Panel Footing Structure and U.S. Pat. No. 3 217 453 patented Nov. 16 1965 to R. S. Medow and assigned to Leonard I. Vogel on a Facing Structure And Article and U.S. Pat. No. 3 231 644 patented Jan. 25 1966 to M. Y. Chang on a Method And Apparatus For Building Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 3 269 072 patented Aug. 30 1966 to J. J. Black and assigned to Pullman Incorporated on a Vehicle Floor Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 3 273 297 patented Sep. 20 1966 to H. W. Wehe Jr. and assigned to Overly Manufacturing Company on a Door And Panel Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 3 315 429 patented Apr. 25 1967 to W. D. Swanson and assigned to National Steel Corporation on a Wall Construction And Element and U.S. Pat. No. 3 328 926 patented Jul. 4 1967 to K. Reinhard and assigned to Ador Corporation on an Inflatable Housing Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 3 343 324 patented Sep. 26 1967 to W. Gordon and assigned to William Gordon and Eve Gordon on an Underwater Structural Unit and U.S. Pat. No. 3 357 142 patented Dec. 12 1967 to J. F. Furrer et al and assigned to the United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army on a Foam Plastic Shelter and U.S. Pat. No. 3 357 146 patented Dec. 12 1967 to J. T. Gartrell and assigned to Birdsboro Corporation on a Building Panel Splicing and U.S. Pat. No. 3 414 320 patented Dec. 3 1968 to G. Heim and assigned to Daimler Benz Aktiengesellschaft on a Sliding Roof Especially for Motor Vehicles and U.S. Pat. No. 3 501 868 patented Mar. 24 1970 to J. V. Ganzinotti and assigned to Equipment Moderne Industriel par application du Caoutchonc Manufacture et des Plastiques EMI on Sealing Joints and U.S. Pat. No. 3 508 368 patented Apr. 28 1970 to W. Tischuk et al and assigned to H. H. Robertson Company on a Building Panel Having Tapered Counter Sunk End Portion And Method Of Erecting The Same and U.S. Pat. No. 3 601 942 patented Aug. 31 1971 to J. D. Wilson on a Building Wall Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 3 631 644 patented Jan. 4 1972 to L. Mazza and assigned to Industrie A. Zanussi S.p.A. on a Sectional Frame For Refrigerators and U.S. Pat. No. 3 786 604 patented Jan. 22 1974 to F. Kramer and assigned to U.F. Chemical Corp. on a Fire Stop Between Floor Slab And Curtain Wall Of Building and U.S. Pat. No. 3 854 253 patented Dec. 17 1974 to J. A. Slowbe on a Joint Construction Between Supported And Supporting Members and U.S. Pat. No. 4 044 510 patented Aug. 30 1977 to L. O Neal on a Venting Valve For Inflatable Dock Seals and U.S. Pat. No. 4 045 925 patented Sep. 6 1977 to L. O Neal on an Inflatable Dock Seal And Mounting Therefor and U.S. Pat. No. 4 155 208 patented May 22 1979 to J. A. Shanabarger on Building Insulation And Method Of Installation and U.S. Pat. No. 4 188 756 patented Feb. 19 1980 to S. O. B. Ljungbo and assigned to Erecta AG on a Heat Insulated Plastic Hall and U.S. Pat. No. 4 267 609 patented May 19 1981 to G. Altman et al and assigned to Thermasol Ltd. on a Gasket Assembly For Coupling Drainage Outlet Openings In Bathtub Liner Installations and U.S. Pat. No. 4 399 645 patented Aug. 23 1983 to P. D. Murphy et al and assigned to Lou Weitz Jeriline Ward and Joy Murphy on a Bladder Insulation and U.S. Pat. No. 4 449 341 patented May 22 1984 to P. C. Tagianetti et al and assigned to PPG Industries Inc. on a Fire Containment Arrangement For Curtain Wall Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 4 455 802 patented Jun. 26 1984 to J. Charniga on Wire Screen Fire Stops and U.S. Pat. No. 4 531 332 patented Jul. 30 1985 to K. Gartner and assigned to Yoshid Kogyo K. K. on a Rooftop Parapet For Thermally Insulated Curtain Wall and U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 032 patented Jun. 30 1987 to P. Jutras on an Inflatable Wall Structure and U.S. Pat. No. 4 679 373 patented Jul. 14 1987 to B. Ludwig on a Method And Device For The Aligning Of An Element E.G. Frame To Be Inserted Into A Wall Opening and U.S. Pat. No. 4 733 514 patented Mar. 29 1988 to T. L. Kelly on a Building Construction With Meltable Insulation And Reservoir Trough Therefor and U.S. Pat. No. 4 866 898 patented Sep. 19 1989 to A. R. LaRoche et al and assigned to Manville Corporation on a Fire Resistant Expansion Joint and U.S. Pat. No. 4 869 037 patented Sep. 26 1989 to J. J. Murphy on a Wall Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 4 918 897 patented Apr. 24 1990 to C. W. Luedtke on a Construction System For Detection Structures And Multiple Story Buildings and U.S. Pat. No. 5 048 257 patented Sep. 17 1991 to C. W. Luedtke on a Construction System For Detection Structures And Multiple Story Buildings and U.S. Pat. No. 5 088 249 patented Feb. 18 1992 to T. Marzouki and assigned to Roland Werke Dachbaustoffe and Bauschemie GmbH Co. KG on a Roof Covering Or Wall Covering and U.S. Pat. No. 5 187 910 patented to J. D. Nicholas et al on Feb. 23 1993 and assigned to MM Systems Corporation on a Fire Barrier System and U.S. Patent No. 5 417 019 patented May 23 1995 to D. P. Marshall et al and assigned to Lamson Sessions Co. on a Passthrough Device With Firestop and U.S. Pat. No. 5 655 350 patented Aug. 12 1997 to B. L. Patton on a Method For Retro Fit Forming Firestops In Existing Wall Structures With Blown Insulation and U.S. Pat. No. 5 765 332 patented Jun. 16 1998 to H. V. Landin et al and assigned to Minnesota Mining And Manufacturing Company on a Fire Barrier Protected Dynamic Joint and U.S. Pat. No. 6 058 668 patented May 9 2000 to T. R. Herren on a Seismic And Fire Resistant Head Of Wall Structure and U.S. Pat. No. 6 125 608 patented Oct. 3 2000 to J. A. Charlson and assigned to United States Building Technology Inc. on Composite Insulated Framing Members And Envelope Extension System For Buildings and U.S. Pat. No. 6 131 352 patented Oct. 17 2000 to V. Barnes et al on a Fire Barrier and U.S. Pat. No. 6 418 689 patented Jul. 16 2002 to P. Hacquard and assigned to Someta on a Removable Wall System and U.S. Pat. No. 6 698 146 patented Mar. 2 2004 to M. D. Morgan et al and assigned to W. R. Grace Co. Conn. on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Pat. No. 6 783 345 patented Aug. 31 2004 to M. D. Morgan et al and assigned to W. R. Grace Co. Conn. on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 880 patented May 16 2006 to M. D. Morgan and assigned to W. R. Grace Co. Conn. on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 152 385 patented Dec. 26 2006 to M. D. Morgan et at and assigned to W. R. Grace Co. Conn. on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 424 793 patented Sep. 16 2008 to J. C. Shriver and assigned to Thermafiber Inc. on an Interlocking Curtain Wall Insulation System .

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which minimizes cost.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a less labor intensive means for achieving full sealing of the edges wallboard than is currently being used particularly in the open zone area beneath the floor construction thereabove and to provide a planar sealing gasket which is attachable to the edge of the wallboard such that the surrounding sealing means is automatically placed simultaneously whenever the gypsum wallboard itself is placed in position.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which is easily maintained.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which can be attached to one side of the gypsum wallboard prior to installation such that the gypsum wallboard and the firestopping means are positioned simultaneously.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which is flexibly resilient to allow for relative movement between the wallboard and the top of the wall construction immediately thereadjacent beneath a floor thereabove.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which can be made of intumescent paper material.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which will include a structural layer preferably of polyethylene or foil scrim.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which can include an adhesive layer which may comprise pressure sensitive adhesive tape.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which can be made available in extended long lengths which can be cut to shape as needed.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which can be supplied in extended lengths such that it can be coiled to facilitate providing thereof for being cut into whatever lengths are needed for the particular job.

It is an object of the planar sealing means for gypsum wallboard of the present invention to provide a system which is capable of following the contours of a top of the wall length positioned thereadjacent.

It is an object of the sealing means for gypsum wallboard disclosed in the present invention to provide a system which can be made with an intumescent extruded rubber profile which can attach to only one side of the gypsum wallboard.

It is an object of the sealing means for gypsum wallboard disclosed in the present invention to provide a system which can be made with an intumescent extruded rubber profile which can attach simultaneously to both sides of the gypsum wallboard.

It is an object of the sealing means for gypsum wallboard disclosed in the present invention to provide a system which can be made with an intumescent extruded rubber profile which can be attached to the gypsum wallboard prior to securement thereof to the head of wall joint area.

It is an object of the sealing means for gypsum wallboard disclosed in the present invention to provide an extruded profile in the shape of an A or a P which can be adhered to the top edge of the system wallboard prior to placing thereof.

It is an object of the sealing means for gypsum wallboard disclosed in the present invention to provide a sealing gasket that includes a flexible upper rounded section which can be compressed in adjacent with a lower surface of a floor thereabove simultaneously with positioning of the system wallboard in place for attachment to the wall area therebelow.

It is an object of the sealing means for gypsum wallboard disclosed in the present invention to provide a system which can be used with various configurations of building construction including being capable of following the contours of a steel fluted deck floor or roof system.

The present invention provides a sealing means in the form of a firestopping gasket which is attachable to the edges preferably the top edges of gypsum wallboard layers normally positioned often adjacent to steel studs present in such construction. A steel track is shown positioned thereadjacent.

The firestopping gasket will preferably include two sections including a support or mounting leg and a sealing leg attached thereto and preferably formed integrally therewith and extending outwardly therefrom. In the configuration shown in the support leg and the sealing leg are at oriented at an obtuse angle with respect to one another of slightly greater than 90 degrees.

The construction of the gasket itself includes a base layer of material having an intumescent component such as intumescent impregnated paper in the embodiment. This material includes a structural layer extending thereover preferably positioned over both sides thereof which provided added structural strength and rigidity and is more aesthetically pleasing. This structural layer preferably is of a thermoplastic material such as polyethylene but it can also be formed of foil scrim commonly used for various purposes in the firestopping industry. The structural layer provides structural integrity to the planar shape of the gasket as shown best in . In particular the combination of the structural layer and the intumescent impregnated paper provides a combined strength and resiliency to the overall structure of the gasket such that it can maintain shape and impart an element of flexible resilience thereto such that as shown in when positioned between the gypsum board layers and the steel track the sealing leg which extends outwardly from the support leg will maintain an obtuse angle to effectively abut with the concrete slab of the upper floor positioned thereabove for firestop sealing thereadjacent. The intumescent paper is flexible such that the added structural layer provides resilient and structural strength thereto. The structural layer is preferably of a thermoplastic material such as polyethylene or other similar material in order to help to maintain the physical orientation between the sealing leg and the support leg as necessary.

One of the important advantages of use of the firestopping gasket of the present invention is in the ease of installation. This advantage is provided by the inclusion of an adhesive layer which can be formed of pressure sensitive adhesive tape or any other common adhesive material such that the sealing leg can be attached easily and quickly to the edge of the gypsum board prior to attachment to the wall at the worksite. Therefore when the gypsum board layers are secured to the wall the firestopping gasket will be also secured in place with the support leg thereof positioned between the steel track of the wall and the gypsum board layer for securement thereof in place without requiring any special separate labor activity. Normally these areas are sealed by mastic materials such as caulking or the like which requires a separate labor step after mounting the gypsum board which requires additional time and expense because of the labor and materials involved. The present invention achieves the placement of a sealing means between the upper edge of the gypsum board layer and the concrete slab thereadjacent in the top of the wall joint area without any separate step because of the initial placement of the gypsum board layer in the proper location with the gasket of the present invention secured along the edge thereof.

One of the most important aspects of the present invention is the flexibly resilience that is imparted to the firestopping gasket by using a two component material including a layer of intumescent paper and the structural layer of polyethylene or foil scrim or other similar material. This combined structure provides the intumescent characteristic readily apparent from the intumescent component of paper and it also provides the structural strength and flexible resilience required such that the sealing leg of the embodiment extends outwardly and upwardly from the upper edge of the gypsum board layer into abutment with respect to the concrete slab thereabove. This double layered construction will help maintain the preset shape of the gasket due to the flexible resilience thereof which maintains forcible abutment of the intumescent sealing portion with respect to the lower surface of the concrete slab . In this manner the top of the wall sealing defined below the concrete slab will be maintained sealed at all times despite relative movement between the top of the wall joint and the gypsum board layer commonly experienced in such joints because the sealing leg will flex to accommodate any movement in the relative position due to the flexible resilience in the structure thereof.

Preferably the gasket member of the present invention is provided in extended length and can be coiled to facilitate transport thereof. The providing of this material in such extended lengths will allow the installation personnel to cut the flexibly resilient gasket as needed in sections for fully sealing the open joint area between the top of the gypsum wallboard and the bottom of the floor assembly . Also it is preferably that a longitudinally extending cut or slot is defined in the structural layer at the intersection between the sealing leg and the support leg . This slot will facilitate bending of the sealing leg to the desired oblique angle relative to the support leg . This slot can be manufactured in the original sealing means as manufactured or can be formed in the field by scoring along the intersection between the sealing leg and the support leg .

As shown in the embodiments shown in the use of the sealing means formed as an extruded sealing member is particularly usable with steel fluted deck floor systems. With such a fluted shape in the deck floor the extruded sealing member can be cut to various lengths as needed to provide a full firestopping seal in all areas of the open joint area .

With the present invention the sealing gasket can be formed conveniently as extruded shaped formed from thermoplastic materials. Two preferred shapes for the thermoplastic extrusion have been found to be useful for this purpose. show the P shaped profile whereas show the A shaped profile .

The P shaped profile for the extruded sealing member is formed with a leg section and a rounded section positioned upwardly with respect thereto. The overall construction is actually formed by a singular linear panel which extends from the bottommost portion of leg section upwardly through the rounded section such that it then extends through the area of rounded section with the end of rounded section in abutment with the inner leg surface and the leg section at an intermediate position therealong. The P shaped profile extrusion also defines an outer leg surface .

The leg section provides the means for adherence between the wallboard paper facing which is included along the outermost surfaces of the gypsum wallboard and the extrusion . The inner leg surface is positioned in abutment with respect to the gypsum wallboard and can be secured thereto in any conventional manner such as by an adhesive or by threaded fasteners or integral barbs or any other conventional means. Normally a mastic connection will be utilized. In this manner the user can easily secure the inner leg surface of the leg section of the P profile of the extrusion with respect to the gypsum wallboard prior to positioning and attachment thereof with respect to an adjacent building structure.

The rounded section of the P shaped profile will include a lower facing rounded section thus positioned in abutment with respect to the gypsum board upper edge . The rounded section will also include an upper surface thereof which is designed to be brought into abutment with respect to the bottom of the floor assembly . As such when the gypsum wallboard is placed in abutment with respect to the mounting members to which it is designed to be secured to form a structural wall the worker will exert an upward force on the gypsum wallboard which urges the upper surface of the rounded section to be forcibly engaged against the bottom of the floor assembly . Preferably the material from which the extruded sealing member is made will be a flexibly resilient material such as preferably including a thermoplastic material component such that it will slightly deform and create a resilient bias in firestop sealing between the gypsum wallboard upper edge and the bottom of the floor assembly . Thus the rounded section will achieve an effective firestopping seal of the open head of wall joint area between the top of the gypsum wallboard and the bottom of the floor assembly immediately. Preferably the extruded material from which the sealing member is made will include an intumescent or other firestopping component for enhancing the firestop sealing of this open joint area when subjected to the heat of a fire.

Another alternative configuration of the profile is shown in wherein the profile is approximately A shaped. With this A profile an arcuate upper section will be provided closed at the bottom portion by a generally horizontally extending cross member . The combination of the arcuate upper section and the cross member will provide an overall closed section when viewed in side profile as shown best in .

The A shaped is defined by the inclusion of a first leg section extending downwardly from the cross member . A second leg section will also extend downwardly from the cross member at a position spatially disposed from the first leg section . In this manner a mounting channel will be defined between the first leg section and the second leg section adapted to receive the gypsum wallboard positioned therebetween.

In particular the first leg section will include a first inner leg surface and a first outer leg surface . The first inner leg surface will be adapted to be positioned in abutment with respect to the wallboard paper facing on one side of the gypsum wallboard . The second leg section will include a second inner leg surface and a second outer leg surface . The second inner leg surface will be positioned adjacent to the opposite wallboard paper facing of the gypsum wallboard . In this manner the first inner leg surface and the second inner leg surface will grasp therebetween the gypsum wallboard to facilitate securement therewith. In this manner if the lateral spacing between the first inner leg surface and the second inner leg surface is small enough a wedged or snug friction gripping will occur of the gypsum wallboard and the wallboard paper facings on each opposite side thereof. As such when using the A shaped profile for the extruded sealing member in some applications no separate means of securement or adhesion between the extruded member and the gypsum wallboard will be required. That is in some configurations the spacing will be small enough that a friction gripping of the gypsum wallboard between the legs of the A shaped profile will be sufficient for securement therebetween. Alternatively if needed additional securement means may be included such as adhesives or glues or separate physical fastening means such as screws or nails which can protrude through both the legs and the wallboard can be used.

As such these two different designs show additional examples of shapes of the extruded sealing members of the present invention can be utilized to form a full seal in the head of wall area between the floor and the wall immediately positioned therebelow. When a gypsum wallboard is placed in position the flexibly resilient material of the extruded sealing member will be compressed such that the upper facing arcuate section of the arcuate upper section of the A shaped profile will be urged into abutting engagement with respect to the bottom of the floor assembly for efficiently creating a firestopping sealing therebetween.

While particular embodiments of this invention have been shown in the drawings and described above it will be apparent that many changes may be made in the form arrangement and positioning of the various elements of the combination. In consideration thereof it should be understood that preferred embodiments of this invention disclosed herein are intended to be illustrative only and not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

