---

title: Managing data representation for user equipments in a communication session
abstract: In an embodiment, an application server receives, from a given UE, data that is configured to visually represent physical user input detected at the given UE at a first level of precision. The application server determines data presentation capabilities of a target UE and/or a performance level associated with a connection between the application server and the target UE. The application server selectively transitions the received data from the first level of precision to a second level of precision based on the determination, and transmits the selectively transitioned data to the target UE for presentation. In another embodiment, the application server receives a request to adjust display settings of the target UE from the given UE responsive to detected physical user input. The application server selectively adjusts the target UE's display settings based on the received request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918453&OS=08918453&RS=08918453
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08918453
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to managing a representation of data associated with a communication session.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 EV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN or radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Telepresence refers to a set of technologies which allow a person to feel as if they were present to give the appearance of being present. Additionally users may be given the ability to affect the remote location. In this case the user s position movements actions voice may be sensed transmitted and duplicated in the remote location to bring about this effect. Therefore information may be traveling in both directions between the user and the remote location. Telepresence via video deploys greater technical sophistication and improved fidelity of both sight and sound than in traditional videoconferencing.

Technical advancements in mobile communication systems have also extended the capabilities of videoconferencing for use with mobile devices enabling collaboration independent of location. Differing from traditional video telepresence mobile collaboration utilizes wireless cellular and broadband technologies enabling effective collaboration independent of location. Mobile collaboration environment combine the use of video audio and on screen drawing capabilities and using mobile devices to enable multi party conferencing in real time independent of location.

In a telepresence environment a user can physically show ideas using touch points movements and gestures which can be communicated synchronously on other UEs. The present invention presents a means for scaling and or representation of data stream in a real time streaming mobile collaboration environment in accordance to UEs display capabilities and bandwidth allocation.

Many different types of UEs exist with different display capabilities. Display capabilities of UEs can vary depending in screen size color resolution frame rate display resolution color resolution and aspect ratio. Additionally display capabilities of UEs can vary depending on processor speed device memory software application. Alternatively bandwidth allocation and the performance level of the connection to each UE can vary. Therefore allocation for exchanging data stream varies among different transmitting and receiving UEs depending on each UE s display capabilities. Embodiments of the invention allow for the determination of the display capabilities of each UE in order to prevent the bandwidth allocation for each UE from being either underutilized or over utilized. The present invention presents a means for determining the capability of each UE and translating the data stream to be transmitted accordingly.

The present invention presents a means for a server to transition the display data stream based on a physical user input for transmission in a telepresence environment. The invention also provides a means for determining the data capability of the target UEs and connection performance to the target UEs and for adjusting transmission of the display data accordingly.

In an embodiment an application server receives from a given UE data that is configured to visually represent physical user input detected at the given UE at a first level of precision. The application server determines data presentation capabilities of a target UE and or a performance level associated with a connection between the application server and the target UE. The application server selectively transitions the received data from the first level of precision to a second level of precision based on the determination and transmits the selectively transitioned data to the target UE for presentation. In another embodiment the application server receives a request to adjust display settings of the target UE from the given UE responsive to detected physical user input. The application server selectively adjusts the target UE s display settings based on the received request.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action e.g. described in more detail below with respect to .

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet i.e. an external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN and the GGSN carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

Direct Tunnel is an optional function in Iu mode that allows the SGSN to establish a direct user plane tunnel GTP U between RAN and GGSN within the Packet Switched PS domain. A direct tunnel capable SGSN such as SGSN in can be configured on a per GGSN and per RNC basis whether or not the SGSN can use a direct user plane connection. The SGSN in handles the control plane signaling and makes the decision of when to establish Direct Tunnel. When the Radio Bearer RAB assigned for a PDP context is released i.e. the PDP context is preserved the GTP U tunnel is established between the GGSN and SGSN in order to be able to handle the downlink packets.

The optional Direct Tunnel between the SGSN and GGSN is not typically allowed i in the roaming case e.g. because the SGSN needs to know whether the GGSN is in the same or different PLMN ii where the SGSN has received Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic CAMEL Subscription Information in the subscriber profile from a Home Location Register HLR and or iii where the GGSN does not support GTP protocol version . With respect to the CAMEL restriction if Direct Tunnel is established then volume reporting from SGSN is not possible as the SGSN no longer has visibility of the User Plane. Thus since a CAMEL server can invoke volume reporting at anytime during the life time of a PDP Context the use of Direct Tunnel is prohibited for a subscriber whose profile contains CAMEL Subscription Information.

The SGSN can be operating in a Packet Mobility Management PMM detached state a PMM idle state or a PMM connected state. In an example the GTP connections shown in for Direct Tunnel function can be established whereby the SGSN is in the PMM connected state and receives an Iu connection establishment request from the UE. The SGSN ensures that the new Iu connection and the existing Iu connection are for the same UE and if so the SGSN processes the new request and releases the existing Iu connection and all RABs associated with it. To ensure that the new Iu connection and the existing one are for the same UE the SGSN may perform security functions. If Direct Tunnel was established for the UE the SGSN sends an Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s to establish the GTP tunnels between the SGSN and GGSN s in case the Iu connection establishment request is for signaling only. The SGSN may immediately establish a new direct tunnel and send Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s and include the RNC s Address for User Plane a downlink Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID for data in case the Iu connection establishment request is for data transfer.

The UE also performs a Routing Area Update RAU procedure immediately upon entering PMM IDLE state when the UE has received an RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling connection re establishment even if the Routing Area has not changed since the last update. In an example the RNC will send the RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling Connection re establishment when the RNC is unable to contact the Serving RNC to validate the UE due to lack of Iur connection e.g. see TS 25.331 52 . The UE performs a subsequent service request procedure after successful completion of the RAU procedure to re establish the radio access bearer when the UE has pending user data to send.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that an

MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to display information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information . Further the configured logics or logic configured to of through are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality describe herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to of through are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic . Other interactions or cooperation between the configured logics through will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

It is typical for media e.g. audio video text etc. to be presented by UEs during a server arbitrated group communication session. For example in a half duplex video communication session video media can be transmitted from a floor holder to the application server and the application server can then re transmit the video media to the group for presentation at target UE s .

In conjunction with the presentation of media during the group communication session one or more of the UEs participating in the session can receive physical user input from their respective users and then transmit control information indicative of the received physical user input to the rest of the group. For example the physical user input can correspond to a form of telestration e.g. on screen drawing whereby a user of a given UE circles a portion of an associated display a graphic representative of the user s circle is added to the display and then transmitted to the rest of the group where the circle is re constituted. In this examples the given user s attempt to highlight a point of interest on his her display via the circle is disseminated to the rest of the group and overlaid on top of the rendering of the video media at the respective target UE s .

However UEs with different presentation capabilities and or connection performance levels can participate in the same server arbitrated communication session. For example a UE connected to a 3G network may be part of the same communication session as a UE connected to a 4G or WLAN. In another example a UE with a high resolution display can be part of the same communication session as a UE with a low resolution display. Accordingly an embodiment of the invention are directed to an implementation whereby visual representations of physical user input are shared between UEs participating a group communication session in accordance with the capabilities and or performance levels associated with the target UE s .

Referring to during the communication session the application server receives data from a given UE UE that is configured to visually represent a physical user input at the given UE . The physical user input that is configured to be visually represented by the data received at can include a user of UE circling a relevant part of the display on the given UE with his her finger the user highlighting a portion of the display on the given UE and so on. The data representative of the physical user input that is received at can be received in many different formats or levels of precision. For example the received data at can correspond to a set of screen coordinates that were associated with the physical user input e.g. which when connected collectively form a circle a squiggly line etc. .

Referring to the application server then determines data presentation capabilities of at least one target UE e.g. one or more of UEs . . . N and or a connection performance level from the application server to the at least one target UE . In an example the determined presentation capabilities of the at least one target UE can include display capability of the at least one target UE such as but not limited to display size color resolution frame rate display resolution aspect ratio and so on. In another example the determined data presentation capabilities of the at least one target UE can depend on a performance capability of the at least one target UE such as but not limited to processor speed memory capacity type of memory clock frequency battery life and power conservation requirements.

Furthermore as noted above with respect to of the application server can also determine the connection performance level associated with the application server s connection to the at least one target UE. For example the performance level to the at least one target UE can be inferred based on packet loss round trip delay or other in call parameters. In another example the performance level to the target UE can be based upon information related to a serving network of the at least one target UE. For example the application server may generally determine higher performance capabilities for 4G connected UEs as compared to 3G connected UEs. In another example the application server may be aware of network specific performance expectations e.g. from prior interactions serving UEs over the same network or the same type of network etc. 

Referring to the application server selectively transitions the received data from a first level of precision e.g. a high quality or full quality format as received from the given UE at to a second level of precision e.g. a reduced quality format based on the determined data presentation capabilities and or connection performance level for the target UE . For example if the received data representative of the physical user input from corresponds to a set of screen coordinates the transitioning of can reduce the number of screen coordinates to a number that is appropriate for delivery and or presentation at the at least one target UE based on the determined presentation capabilities and or connection performance level of the at least one target UE e.g. 700 screen coordinates coordinates for a center point and a size of a pre defined shape screen coordinates that correspond to vertexes of a pre defined polygon and an associated center point etc. . In another example the application server can prioritize the transition of the received data at based on an expected level of human sensitivity to each aspect targeted for transition or reduction in order to improve the user experience e.g. reduce resolution but not frame rate etc. . In another example assume that the received data representative of the physical user input from includes complex forms shading and color coding. In this case the transition of this data to the second level of precision at can include simplifying the complex form reducing or eliminating the shading and or reducing the number of associated colors.

Still referring to of in another example if the determined connection performance level at for a particular target UE is low the transitioned data at can be scaled down to a thumbnail size and then stretched for presentation once received by the particular target UE in order to fill its display screen. In another example in the shape of the received data of can be reconstructed to reduce image size. In another example in the received data from the given UE at can contain image data that is representative of a user s selections on a map and the received data can be converted from the image data into a set of GPS location and or Cartesian coordinates for the map so that the image data can be reconstructed at the display of the at least one target UE. As will be discussed below in more detail at the application server the manner in which the received data is transitioned in can be the same for each target UE or alternatively can vary between target UEs based on UE specific determinations from .

Referring to after the received data representative of the physical user input from the given UE is transitioned into the second level of precision at the application server transmits the selectively transitioned data to the at least one target UE for presentation thereon .

While not shown in explicitly assume that the application server receives the representative data from UE and executes the process of . Thus of shows the transmission of the selectively transitioned data that is representative of the shape albeit in a reduced or simplified level of precision. The target UE e.g. UE receives the selectively transitioned data and presents a modified shape . The modified shape is still representative of or faithful to the initial physical user input at UE but the modified shape is somewhat simpler and or reduced in comparison to the full quality representation of the physical user input that was captured and then presented at UE . The reduction and or simplification to the data representative of the physical user input can occur for a number of reasons as noted above with respect to such as a low bandwidth connection between the application server and UE display restrictions associated with UE etc.

Referring to the UE receives a physical user input during a group communication session with UE . . . N at A. Next UE presents an original representation of the physical user input at a first level of precision at A. For example referring to B is an example of the original representation of the physical user input for a user that draws a circle on a display screen of UE that is showing a map of New York. As shown in B of the circle includes a lot of detail and is fairly complex because user movement is imperfect or was deliberately non linear. Another example of the presentation of the original representation of the physical user input is the shape discussed above with respect to .

Referring to UE sends data representative of the physical user input from A to the application server A. The transmission of the data at A corresponds to at and or at . The application server receives the data representative of the physical user input from UE after which A A and A correspond to and respectively of .

Once the data at the second level of precision is received by the target UE s e.g. UE . . . N the target UE s present the selectively transitioned representation of the physical user input at A. For example referring to the representation of the physical user input at target UEs . . . N can correspond to any of B B or B. In B a relatively simple circle is shown instead of the complexity of the original representation of B. For example the application server can transition the original data from UE that is visually representative of the physical user input into a data format that defines a radius thickness color and or center point of the circle shown at B. B can be the representation presented at a relatively low performing target UE or a target UE with a poor connection. The presentation of B on the other hand is the same as B i.e. no transition . In this case B can be the representation presented at a relatively high performing target UE or a target UE with a good connection because the original representation from UE did not undergo a quality or precision reduction. In B a relatively simple octagon is shown instead of the complexity of the original representation of B. For example the application server can transition the original data from UE that is representative of the physical user input into a data format or level of precision that defines the vertexes and or center point of the octagon shown at B. B can be an example of another representation presented at a relatively low performing target UE or a target UE with a poor connection.

Referring to assume that determination of A of resulted in the application server categorizing the plurality of target UEs into a first group including target UEs with low presentation capabilities and or connection performance a second group including target UEs with intermediate presentation capabilities and or connection performance and a third group including target UEs with high presentation capabilities e.g. top of the line smart phone and or connection performance e.g. 3G 4G Wi Fi connection .

Under these assumptions referring to the selective transitioning of A of can include a first transition of the received data from the first level of precision i.e. the received level of precision such as shape of or B of or to a second level of precision for the first group e.g. as shown in B of and or for example A the selective transitioning of A of can include a second transition of the received data from the first level of precision into a third level of precision for the second group e.g. as shown in B of and or for example A and the selective transitioning of A of can include no transition of the received data for the third group A e.g. as shown in B of and or for example .

While the above described embodiments related to are directed to sharing data that represents physical user input between UEs in a communication session is directed towards using physical user input at a given UE to control device display settings at one or more other UEs participating in the communication session. As will be appreciated from the description below with respect to any of the processes described above with respect to can be executed in parallel with the processes of and or . Alternatively can be executed in an independent manner such that the physical user input described below as triggering a display adjustment at the target UE s need not be associated with the physical user input described above with respect to .

Referring to UEs . . . N and the application server exchange media between UEs . . . N during a group communication session . During the group communication session UE receives a physical user input e.g. rotation of the phone that is recognized as a prompt to adjust display settings at one or more of the target UE s . . . N . For example UE may be provisioned with a set of pre defined user gestures or physical user inputs that are each associated with corresponding display setting adjustment s to be implemented at UEs in communication with UE . For example UE may detect that the user temporarily reorients UE e.g. from portrait mode to landscape mode . This detection can occur based on sensor coupled to UE such as an accelerometer a gyroscope etc. UE reports the detected physical user input to the application server in to request that the application server change the display settings at the target UE s . . . N. Table 1 below lists a set of example pre defined physical user inputs that when detected at UE are associated display setting adjustments for one or more of target UE s . . . N 

In response to the request of the application server selectively adjusts the display settings for the target UE s e.g. UE . . . N . In an example the selective adjustment to the display settings can be implemented within the media stream being mediated by the application server or alternatively can be implemented indirectly at the target UE s . . . N based on control signaling from the application server . For example if the physical user input detected at is associated with an orientation change for UEs . . . N the orientation change can be server implemented such that the application server itself re maps the graphical media to the target orientation. Alternatively the orientation change can be UE implemented whereby the application server sends an orientation adjustment command to UEs . . . N after which UEs . . . N will re orient the unchanged incoming media stream to the target orientation at their end. Irrespective of whether the display setting adjustment is server implemented or UE implemented at the display settings at the target UE s . . . N are adjusted based on the physical user input from .

Referring to and illustrate states of the group communication session at UE and UE respectively during and of respectively. Accordingly as shown in and UE and UE are each held in an upright position or vertical orientation by their respective users and UEs and are displaying a vertically oriented smiley face graphic. Next during the communication session a user of UE turns UE 90 degrees so that UE obtains a horizontal orientation . The user s turning of UE corresponds to the physical user input detected by UE at of . In an example the turning of UE can be a flip of UE by its user that is deliberately made to change the orientation at UE . Alternatively the turning of UE can simply arise as a result of UE s user preferring a different orientation on his her own phone. As shown in state the smiley face offset 90 degrees by virtue of the 90 degree turning of UE . In another example however UE may include logic for adjusting the smiley face so that the smiley face still appears vertically oriented to the user of UE even though UE itself is horizontally oriented.

In UE reports the orientation change of UE to prompt the application server to adjust the orientation of a graphic being displayed at UE . Accordingly in the application server adjusts the orientation at UE . In an example in the application server can modify the graphical media being streamed to UE by 90 degrees to implement the orientation adjustment for UE . In an alternative example in the application server can send unmodified graphical media to UE if necessary and can simply send control commands to UE to instruct UE to offset its orientation for the graphical media by 90 degrees clockwise .

After the adjustment at UE s state is shown in . Thus in state UE is vertically oriented and the smiley face has been transitioned 90 degrees clockwise with a horizontal orientation. While not shown in explicitly the orientation transition can occur to encourage the user of UE to engage in the communication session in landscape mode instead of portrait mode. Thus while state shows UE with a vertical orientation the user of UE may be likely to alter UE s orientation to conform to the smiley face orientation.

While not illustrated in and or it is possible that certain target UEs may lack the ability to implement the display setting adjustment requested by the user of UE via his her physical user input. For example some target UEs may not be able to adjust their display settings e.g. rotate display orientation therefore the application server will not adjust the display settings for these target UEs.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

