---

title: Video content pre-fetching from mobile browser
abstract: Systems and methods for pre-fetching video content from a content server for eventual playback on a mobile device are disclosed herein. The system includes a component that creates a request for a video stored on a video content server, wherein the request can include a rule that can control and govern broadcast conditions implemented by the video content server in order to return the requested video to the requester. Additionally, the system can include a transmitting component that relays the request for the video to the content service for subsequent fulfillment of the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137125&OS=09137125&RS=09137125
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09137125
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121001
---
This disclosure relates to video content and more particularly to pre fetching video content from a content server or service for playback on a mobile device.

Currently it is difficult to access mobile content such as video in many emerging markets since in these markets mobile internet can be exceedingly slow and expensive. Further to compound the suffering many emerging markets have not as yet deployed technologies that allow mobile devices to exchange data wirelessly over computer networks and or high speed Internet connections. Moreover in these markets the majority of mobile devices are feature phones that typically do not allow for the building of application software designed to assist users to perform tasks. While most content provisioning websites such as video sharing websites provide dedicated service aspects for devices that operate under such straitened circumstances to acquire persisted content streaming of such content can nonetheless be frustrating and at the very least it can take many hours to buffer such content.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope particular aspects of the disclosure or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure various non limiting aspects are described in connection with pre fetching video content from a content server or service for playback on mobile devices.

In accordance with a non limiting aspect a system is presented comprising a generating component that creates a request for a video that is stored on a video content service wherein the request includes a rule that governs a broadcast condition that is implemented by the content service to return the video. Further the system can also include a transmitting component that relays the request to the content service.

In accordance with another non limiting aspect presented is a method comprising using at least one microprocessor to execute computer executable instructions stored on at least one non transitory computer readable medium to perform acts that can include generating a request for a video persisted on a content service associating a rule with the request and transmitting the request to the content service.

In yet another non limiting aspect a system is provided comprising a reception component that obtains a request for a video wherein the request includes a rule associated with a broadcast condition under which a mobile device operates. Further the system can also include a transmitter component that dispatches the video in conformance with the broadcast condition.

In still yet a further non limiting aspect a method is presented that comprises using at least one microprocessor to execute computer executable instructions stored on at least one non transitory computer readable medium to perform acts that can include receiving a request for a video wherein the request includes a rule associated with a mobile device and transmitting the video to the mobile device in satisfaction of the rule.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the disclosure. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosure may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this innovation. It may be evident however that the innovation can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the innovation.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects or implementations described in this disclosure users can opt in or opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more aspects or implementations described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

It is further to be appreciated that while the one or more aspects or implementations described below have been enunciated in the context of pre fetching video content or collections of video content the subject application is not necessarily so limited. Other objects content or collections of objects and or content such as playlists channels users and the like can be pre fetched with equal facility using the one or more described implementations or aspects set forth herein without departing from the purview or spirit and intent of this disclosure.

It should be noted that as utilized in this disclosure that a prototype based scripting language or a prototype oriented programming language or instance based scripting language is one where classes are not present and behavior reuse is performed by cloning existing objects to serve as prototypes. Generally prototype based scripting languages utilize a feature known as delegation wherein the language runtime dispatches the appropriate method and or finds the correct item of data through use of delegation pointers from object to prototype until a match is identified. Unlike the class and instance relationship typical in class based programming languages in prototype based languages the relationship between the prototype and its progeny does not require child objects to have a memory or structural similarity to the prototype beyond the link. Accordingly in prototype based programming languages child objects can be modified and or amended without rearranging the structure of its associated prototype as is the case in class based programming paradigms.

A class based scripting language or a class based computer programming language in contrast employs a class based programming paradigm wherein the structure of objects is specified in programmer defined types known as classes. The classes define the type of data and functionality that objects have and instances are usable objects based on the patterns of a particular class. In this model classes act as collections of behavior methods and structure that are the same for all instances whereas instances carry the objects data.

As will thus be appreciated class based programming languages encourage a model of development that focuses first on the taxonomy and relationships between classes whereas prototype based programming languages in contrast encourages the programmer to focus on the behavior of some set of examples and only later worry about classifying these objects into archetypical objects that are subsequently used in a fashion similar to classes. As such prototype based programming languages encourage the alteration of prototypes during runtime while class based object oriented programming languages generally do not allow classes to be altered during execution of the program.

Additionally in the context of the implementation of the subject application using a prototype based programming paradigm it should be noted in contrast to class based programming models that utilization of a prototype based programming paradigm on a mobile device can yield significant space savings in terms of the number of code lines necessary to effectuate the subject application with only a marginal reduction in processing speed. Given the fact that downloading of content by mobile devices can be computationally expensive and or resource exhaustive a reduction in code size with minimal reduction in processing efficiency can permit more of the limited resources associated with the mobile device to be dedicated and or allocated to the process of downloading media content.

The subject application exists in a middle ground between media downloading and media streaming as it allows a media streaming service to deploy media content in a media downloading environment e.g. environments that are presently common in less developed markets such as China India and much of the continent of Africa where media downloading is the norm . Media downloading is characterized as being a bulk download of content from a content server service to a client device or mobile device. The content server pushes the media content to the client device or mobile device as fast as resources available for the bulk download will allow. Media playback in the context of media downloading generally does not commence until the entirety of the media content has been persisted on the mobile device or client device. In contrast in media streaming the content server service supplies sufficient content to enable immediate playback of the media content on the mobile device or client device and at a rate commensurate with the playback rate of the content on mobile device or client device.

In many emerging markets cellular mobile networks have become one of the main ways of accessing the Internet. In India for instance research shows that access to the Internet from mobile devices or mobile handsets through cellular networks surpasses usage through desktop computers. This means that a growing number of users are accessing the Internet through a relatively slow and or limited connection the cellular network. Additionally in emerging markets users typically have cellular or mobile devices or mobile handsets that generally are limited in features in contrast to full featured devices such as smart phones and tablet computers typically found in more developed markets.

Mobile devices typically used in emerging markets to access the Internet through cellular networks generally lie somewhere between full featured smart phones and ordinary cell phones wherein the ordinary cell phones are associated with a constrained set of rudimentary features inclusive of a browser. While the cellular network technology in emerging markets might provide 3G connectivity the ability of users to beneficially utilize the features provided by 3G technologies can be severely curtailed by their access technologies limited featured mobile devices or cell phones.

In view of the foregoing the subject application describes a browser extension that can operate on a mobile device that has limited capabilities. In order to enable full access to the streaming services provided by content sharing websites there needs to be decent connectivity which in emerging markets is not the case. To overcome this shortcoming many content sharing websites utilize a facility known as content offloading which involves while the mobile device is connected through a relatively fast Wi Fi network prefetching media content and thereafter persisting the prefetched media content to storage associated with the mobile device. Thus when the mobile device transitions to a relatively slower wired and or wireless cellular network when metadata from the content server is requested by the mobile device it can be realized at that point that the media content has already been prefetched and persisted to the storage associated with the mobile device at which point the media content can immediately be played back on the mobile device. By prefetching or pre caching the media content over relatively fast Wi Fi connectivity prior to ultimate playback delays associated with buffering and the like can at least be mitigated or at the best obviated entirely.

In emerging markets Wi Fi connectivity is not commonplace rather connectivity may solely be through wired and or wireless cellular networks that have implemented the 3G technical standard for example. While utilization of wired and or wireless cellular networks in this context can be expensive cellular carriers are nonetheless focused in maximizing returns on their investments utilization of wired and or wireless cellular networks throughout an entire 24 hour period can be conducive to attaining such maximization. Thus in order to incentivize use of the wired and or wireless cellular network for an entire 24 hour period cellular network carriers can discount use of bandwidth during off peak hours for example. Additionally and or alternatively cellular network carriers can offer data plans that incentivize or encourage use of the wired and or wireless cellular network during night hours and or over statutory holiday periods.

The disclosed offloading strategy as implemented in emerging markets for example operates on mobile or cellular devices that generally have limited capabilities for instance a mobile device that in addition to providing standard call capabilities receiving and or initiating telephone calls has a rudimentary browser capability. The offloading strategy schedules the download of media content from a content service during off peak periods for example. Off peak periods are generally periods when use of the wired and or wireless cellular network at best is free or at the very worst involves a minimal cost and traffic over the wired and or wireless cellular network is minimal or negligible.

Generally the media content service is typically exposed through a web browser aspect that can be executing on a mobile device. Exposure of the media content service or content server e.g. a repository of media content through the web browser associated with the mobile device can be implemented using a prototype based scripting language e.g. a scripting language that is dynamic weakly typed and has first class functions application programming interface API for example. The content service e.g. executing on a content server and the application programming interface e.g. executing on a mobile device can be communicatively coupled temporarily periodically and or continuously with one another through the wired and or wireless cellular network for instance. The application programming interface can for example notify the media or content service that particular media content should be downloaded to the mobile device during off peak periods or whenever it is ascertained to be beneficial and or convenient to do so consonant with a set of constraints wherein the set of constraints includes at least one constraint and thus is not an empty or null set provided by the mobile device to the content service. Once media content has been downloaded from the media or content service to the mobile device the application programming interface can notify the user of the mobile device that the media content has been downloaded and that the media content is ready for playback.

In addition to the foregoing the application programming interface operating through the web browser situated on the mobile device can also include a queuing aspect that allows a user to select a plurality of media content for download from the content server content service. The application programming interface feature conveys the requests for multiple media content to the media or content service in association with at least one rule that governs the conditions under which each of the plurality of identified and or selected media content should be dispatched from the content server content service to the mobile device. When media content is queued for future or subsequent download from the content server content service to the mobile device an indication can be provided to the user through the application programming interface that the requested media content has been queued for download and or is in the process of being downloaded to the mobile device. Additionally and or alternatively where media content is currently being downloaded to the mobile device an indication of the progress being made in fulfillment of the download can also be provided.

One illustrative and non limiting transaction by which the foregoing can be accomplished and or implemented can be as follows. Users can initially access through a browser operating on the mobile device a content server content service. Upon gaining access to the content server content service users can identify or select media content that they wish to download and view on their mobile devices. Subsequent to users having identified or selected media content that they wish to download and or view on their mobile devices the content server content service can immediately commence downloading the media content to the mobile device. However as a consequence of the limitations of wireless or wired cellular networks prevalent in emerging markets for instance the content server content service can come to the realization that the downloading of the media content is taking an inordinate amount of time to download because for instance the download process is primarily involved in buffering the content rather than conveying the content to a persistence means associated with the mobile device. In recognition of the fact that the content server content service is performing buffering rather than downloading media content to mobile device the content server content service can for example place the extant operational download process into a background mode wherein the download is performed during off peak periods or in accordance with a set of rules and or constraints that can have been supplied during the earlier identification and selection process.

It should be noted that the application programming interface employed to access the content server content service and running on the mobile device can include facilities to prioritize tasks operating on the content server content service. Thus for instance while a mobile device is collaborating in downloading media content from the content server content service to the mobile device if the user initiates an emergency call on the mobile device the application programming interface can reduce the priority of the task associated with downloading media content from the content service content server for the duration of the call. Once a higher priority task has been completed the task placed in abeyance can be restarted and or reassigned a higher priority by the application programming interface. As noted above on completion of the downloading the application programming interface can notify the user that the media content is ready for playback.

In accordance with a non limiting outline therefore the disclosure sets forth a method that can comprise using at least one microprocessor to execute computer executable instructions stored on at least one non transitory computer readable medium to generate a request for a video hosted by a content service wherein the content service is exposed to a mobile device using a web browser implemented using a prototype based scripting language application programming interface associate a rule with the request wherein the rule is employed by the content service to return the video to mobile device as a function of a broadcast condition included in the rule that regulates the return of the video and transmit the request that includes the rule from the mobile device to the content service.

Further the method can include receiving the video in response to the transmission of the request wherein the content service server as a function of the rule ascertains a condition under which it is permissible to broadcast a video. Additionally the method can include receiving the video in response to the transmission of the request wherein the content service server as a function of the rule ascertains a broadcast service to employ and over which to broadcast the video. Moreover the method can also include transmitting a resource status indicator to the content service server wherein as a function of receiving the resource status indicator the content service server adjusts a condition specified in the rule in regard to returning the video. Typically the resource status indicator divulges to the content service server that a threshold value associated with at least one processor has been surpassed and or that a set point associated with a power source such as a battery has been contravened or breached. The content service server can employ the threshold value associated with the at least one processor and or the set point associated with the power source e.g. battery associated with the at least one processor to adjust transmission of the requested video in response to the received resource status indicator.

Moreover the method can also include encrypting the video on receipt of the video from the content service server and or persisting the video in a secure location associated with the at least one non transitory computer readable medium.

In accordance with a further non limiting synopsis the disclosure elucidates a further method comprising using at least one microprocessor to execute computer executable instructions stored on at least one non transitory computer readable medium to perform receiving from a mobile device a request for a video wherein the request includes a rule associated with a broadcast condition associated with the mobile device and the mobile device has identified the computer system through use of a prototype based scripting language implemented web browser and transmitting the video to the mobile device in satisfaction of the broadcast condition that controls transmission of the video to the mobile device.

The foregoing method can also include ascertaining as a function of the rule a time period during which to transmit the video from a content server service to the mobile device and ascertaining as a function of the rule a broadcast service that is to be employed to transmit the video from the content server service to the mobile device. Furthermore the method can also include receiving a resource indicator from the mobile device wherein the resource indicator in conjunction with the rule is utilized by the content server service to adjust the transmitting of the video from the content server service to the mobile device. The resource indicator generally relates a prospective inability of at least one processor associated with the mobile device to perform a computer executable instruction associated with receiving the video.

In accordance with a further non limiting overview the disclosure describes a system that can comprise at least one non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable components and at least one microprocessor that executes the computer executable components stored on the at least one non transitory computer readable medium. The described system can include a generating component that creates a request for a video that is stored on a video content service wherein the video content service is exposed to a mobile device through an associated web browser that has been implemented using a prototype based scripting language and a rule engine that generates a rule that governs downloading of the video from the video content service as a function of a broadcast condition that is implemented by the video content service to return the video wherein the request includes the rule. Further the system can also include a transmitting component that relays the request to the content service.

The foregoing system can further comprise a persistence component that on receipt of the video from the content service stores the video to a secure location on the at least one non transitory computer readable medium. Additionally the system can also include an encryption component that on receipt of the video from the content service encrypts the video prior to persisting the video to the at least one non transitory computer readable medium.

In accordance with yet a further non limiting outline the disclosure sets forth a further system that includes at least one non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable components and at least one microprocessor that executes the computer executable components stored on the at least one non transitory computer readable medium. The system can comprise a reception component that obtains a request for a video wherein the request includes a rule associated with a broadcast condition under which a mobile device operates and the rule controls downloading of the video based on the broadcast condition and wherein the system is exposed to the mobile device through a web browser associated with the mobile device that has been implemented using a prototype based scripting language. Additionally the system can also include a transmitter component that dispatches to the requesting mobile device the video in conformance with the broadcast condition.

The transmitter component associated with the noted system as a function of the broadcast condition included in the rule can ascertain a time period during which it is beneficial to dispatch the video from the content server service to the mobile device. Additionally the transmitter component once again as a function of the broadcast condition included in the rule can determine or select a broadcast service to employ in order to dispatch the video from the content service to the mobile device. Further in the context of the reception component this component can receive a subsequently dispatched resource indicator communicated by the mobile device wherein the resource indicator can be utilized in conjunction with the rule to modify operation of the transmitter component during dispatch of the video from the content service to the mobile device.

Turning now to the drawings with reference initially to a non limiting depiction of a system e.g. a mobile device cellular device mobile handset user equipment . . . that generates a request for media content of interest to a user of system is presented. Aspects of the systems apparatuses or processes explained in this disclosure can constitute machine executable components embodied within machine s e.g. embodied in one or more computer readable mediums or media associated with one or more machines. Such components when executed by the one or more machines e.g. computer s computing devices s virtual machines s etc. can cause the machine s to perform the operations described. System can include memory for storing computer executable components and instructions. A processor can facilitate operation of the computer executable components and instructions by the system .

In accordance with an aspect system can include request component processor memory and storage component . System represents a system employed on one or more server components or devices which generates and dispatches a request to a content service content server for download of media content such as video content. In an aspect a storage component stores content such as video files downloaded from the content service server.

Request component generates a request for media content such as a video or other audio visual content that can have typically been persisted in a repository e.g. storage media or database s associated with a content service content server. Additionally request component can associate a rule with the generated request that is ultimately transmitted to the content service content server for fulfillment. The rule associated with the request that is transmitted to the content service or content server will typically include the conditions under which the content server content service should return the requested video to system . For instance if the mobile device e.g. system operates under a particular data plan provided by a cellular network provider the rule included with request can include the times during which utilization of the cellular network is free or can be used for a nominal fee tariff e.g. during the night hours during weekend periods and or over statutory holidays . Additionally the rule associated by request component with request can also include constraints associated with mobile device such as current power source e.g. battery life processor speed limitations memory capacity available memory capacity and the like.

Further request component can subsequent to dispatch of request to content server content service can continuously randomly and or periodically transmit updates to the content server content service. These updates can include further constraints regarding the mobile device that can have changed during the interim after request has been dispatched to the content server content service. These updates can include changes that have or might have occurred and or are predicted to occur with regard to transmission and or reception characteristics associated with the wired and or wireless cellular network changes that have or might have occurred and or are predicted to occur with respect to mobile device such as changes in processor capabilities e.g. whether the processor has become or is predicted using an inference engine discussed infra to become idle or is operating at full or near full capacity and or other resources that can have been fully or partially released and or have become constrained or further constrained in the interim duration since the dispatch of request to content server content service. The updates can be employed by the content server content service to modify the rules that were previously transmitted by mobile device in the or during transmission of the request for media content.

Turning now to that provides a further non limiting illustration of system that dispatches a request to a content server content service requesting that the content server content service return one or more media content persisted or associated with the content server content service. As illustrated system can include in addition to request component rule engine that can be used in conjunction with request component to include and or associate rules that can be utilized by a content server content service to return a requested video. Rule engine can generate associate and or include rules relating to the ambient wireless and or wired cellular network conditions under which system is currently operating. Rules relating to the ambient wireless and or wired cellular network conditions under which system is currently operating can be ascertained as a function of factors such as received signal strength bit error rate block error rate forward error correction signal to interference and noise ratio signal to interference ratio and the like. Additionally and or alternatively rules generated by rule engine can also be based on or be ascertained as a function of factors associated with system itself for instance current processing capacity or lack thereof current power requirements and or the diminution of power resources e.g. battery life storage capacity or lack thereof and the like.

Inference engine can be utilized for example to dynamically ascertain one or more of thresholds or set points associated with the ambient wired and or wireless cellular network as well as thresholds and set points associated with processing capacity and or power requirements needed by system . Inference engine can employ a probabilistic based and or statistical based approach for example in connection with making determinations or inferences. Inferences can be based in part upon explicit training of classifiers not shown before employing system or implicit training based at least in part upon system feedback and or users previous actions commands instructions and the like during use of the system. Inference engine can employ any suitable scheme e.g. neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks support vector machines SVMs Hidden Markov Models HMMs fuzzy logic data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Inference engine can factor historical data extrinsic data context data content state of the user and or can compute a cost of making an incorrect determination or inference versus a benefit of making a correct determination or inference. Accordingly a utility based analysis can be employed with providing such information to other components or taking automated action. Ranking and confidence measures can also be calculated and employed in connection with such analysis.

Utilization of selection component in collaboration with inference engine and or request component in order to solicit media content to which a user of system might express an affinity can reduce the amount of time needed to download the media content from the content server content service. For example if in the past the user has expressed a preference for science fiction media content selection component in accordance with an aspect can preemptively or anticipatorily download such content in response to an inference being made and or generated by inference engine that such a download would likely satisfy the user s preferences.

Additionally and or alternatively encryption decryption component can further include an authentication aspect that can solicit authentication data from an entity e.g. a user and as a function of the solicited authentication data that can be employed individually and or in conjunction with information acquired and ascertained as a result of biometric modalities employed to facilitate controlling access to the memory component and or storage component . The authentication data can be in the form of a password e.g. a sequence of humanly cognizable characters a pass phrase e.g. a sequence of alphanumeric characters that can be similar to a typical password but is conventionally of greater length and contains non humanly cognizable characters in addition to humanly cognizable characters a pass code e.g. Personal Identification Number PIN and the like for example. Additionally and or alternatively public key infrastructure PM data can also be employed by the discussed authentication aspects. PKI arrangements can provide for trusted third parties to vet and affirm entity identity through the use of public keys that typically can be certificates issued by the trusted third parties. Such arrangements can enable entities to be authenticated to each other and to use information in certificates e.g. public keys and private keys session keys Traffic Encryption Keys TEKs cryptographic system specific keys and or other keys to encrypt and decrypt messages communicated between entities.

Encryption decryption component can encrypt and or decrypt media content contemporaneously with and or on receipt of the media content from content server content service. Additionally and or alternatively encryption decryption component can provide facilities for encryption decryption when media content is played back using the facilities provided by a playback component e.g. playback component discussed infra .

The transmission side of transceiver as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill can include a transmitter that transmits to one or more content server content service through a transmit antenna array. Typically the transmitter is coupled to a modulator that can multiplex frames for transmission by the transmitter via the transmit antenna array to the content service content server.

Turning now to that provides a non limiting depiction of a content server on which a content service can be operational. In accordance with an aspect content server and or the content service associated with content server can receive a request e.g. request that has been dispatched over a wired and or wireless cellular network by a mobile device e.g. system . As noted above request can include a demand that particular media content e.g. video be sent to the mobile device e.g. system in response to receipt of the request as well as rules regarding how content server should dispatch or transmit the media content back to system . Typically the rules included in request can relate to the appropriate times during which content server should transmit media content in fulfillment of the request . Generally times during which it is appropriate to convey media content back to system can be ascertained as a function of a subscriber plan that a user of system may have negotiated with their cellular provider the capacity and or processing constraints associated with the wired and or wireless cellular network capacity and processing limitations associated with both content server and or mobile device or system memory and or storage restraints associated with system and or content server and other impediments that can exist with regard to communication of media content e.g. video from content server to system .

As illustrated content server can include download component that can operate in combination with processor memory and storage component to return media content here illustrated as video to a mobile device e.g. system in response to having received request . Download component can parse the request received from a mobile device e.g. system to ascertain the media content that has been requested together with the rules if any included in request . The rules included in request can pertain to times at which dispatch of media content is consonant with a data plan under which the mobile device e.g. system operates congruent with traffic flow patterns that can have been or will be established by a wired and or wireless cellular network provider e.g. off peak hours etc. and concordant with processing capacity and power resource utilization limitations associated with the mobile device that communicated request .

As a function of the received rules e.g. extracted from request and or any other restrictions under which the media content may need to be returned to a mobile device download component can dynamically ascertain an appropriate time period during which to convey the requested media content to the requesting mobile device e.g. system . Additionally and or alternatively download component can select an appropriate broadcast medium and broadcast service to employ over which the requested media content can be returned to the requesting mobile device.

Since conditions under which a mobile device e.g. system operates can change with rapidity and or without notice e.g. connectivity with the cellular network can be temporarily lost power resources associated with the mobile device can become depleted processor capabilities can become overextended memories and disk capacities overloaded etc. the mobile device can continuously periodically and or at random intervals send update messages to content server informing content server of any changes regarding these conditions. These update messages can be employed by download component to modify the conditions that can have been set or specified in previously received rules under which transmission of the requested media content is taking place. For instance if a mobile device reports e.g. subsequent to content server having received an earlier or initial set of rules from a mobile device that its processors are currently operating at full capacity download component can initiate procedures to ensure that subsequent transmissions of the requested media content are put or placed into abeyance for a random quantum of time whereupon during the effluxion or at the expiration of the abeyance period download component can attempt to reestablish transmission of the requested media content.

Modification component in accordance with the foregoing and in response to receipt of an update report received from a mobile device can cause transmission of media content to mobile device in fulfillment of an earlier received request to be placed into abeyance for a duration of time. The duration of time during which transmission of media content is placed on hold or in abeyance can be for an arbitrary period ascertained by modification component for a period until a further update is received from the mobile device informing content server that an earlier noted and notified bottleneck has been resolved and or for a period that is mutually agreed between the content server and mobile device e.g. system . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill the mutually agreed backoff period can be conveyed between the content server and mobile device e.g. system in a sequence of packets communicated between content server and mobile device e.g. system .

It should be noted in the context of the above described queuing component while not depicted in illustrating aspects that can be included with or associated with system a queuing aspect can also be included with system wherein such a queuing aspect can be utilized e.g. through a web browser implemented using a prototype based scripting language application programming interface to queue video or media content requests for subsequent dispatch to and fulfillment by a content server service. This queuing aspect as implemented on system can be useful when communication between system and a content server service has been disrupted and or is subject to disruption. The queuing aspect as implemented on system can allow users to select a plurality of media content for download from the content server service and subsequent playback on system .

Intelligence component can be utilized for example to dynamically determine one or more of threshold or set points associated with the ambient wired and or wireless cellular network as well as thresholds and set points associated with the processing capacity and or power requirements needed by content server . Intelligence component can employ a probabilistic based and or statistical based approach for example in connection with making determinations or inferences. Inferences can be based in part upon explicit training of classifiers not shown before employing content server or implicit training based at least in part upon system feedback and or users previous actions commands instructions and the like during use of the system. Intelligence component can employ any suitable scheme e.g. neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks support vector machines SVMs Hidden Markov Models HMMs fuzzy logic data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Intelligence component can factor historical data extrinsic data context data content state of the user and can compute a cost of making an incorrect determination or inference versus a benefit of making a correct determination or inference. Accordingly a utility based analysis can be employed with providing such information to other components or taking automated action. Ranking and confidence measures can also be calculated and employed in connection with such analysis.

Additionally and or alternatively intelligence component can employ one or more collaborative filtering techniques that can be based at least in part on model mobile devices and the cellular network to which they can be coupled to aid in scheduling and or modifying transmission characteristics etc.

Additionally and or alternatively security component can further include an authentication aspect that can solicit authentication data from an entity e.g. a user and as a function of the solicited authentication data can be employed individually and or in conjunction with information acquired and ascertained as a result of biometric modalities employed to facilitate controlling access to the memory component and or storage component . The authentication data can be in the form of a password e.g. a sequence of humanly cognizable characters a pass phrase e.g. a sequence of alphanumeric characters that can be similar to a typical password but is conventionally of greater length and or contains non humanly cognizable characters in addition to humanly cognizable characters a pass code e.g. Personal Identification Number PIN and the like for example. Additionally and or alternatively public key infrastructure PKI data can also be employed by the authentication aspects. PKI arrangements can provide for trusted third parties to vet and affirm entity identity through the use of public keys that typically can be certificates issued by the trusted third parties. Such arrangements can enable entities to be authenticated to each other and to use information in certificates e.g. public keys and private keys session keys Traffic Encryption Keys TEKs cryptographic system specific keys and or other keys to encrypt and decrypt messages communicated between entities.

Security component can encrypt and or decrypt media content contemporaneously with dispatch of the media content to a requesting mobile device. Additionally and or alternatively security component can provide facilities for encryption decryption when media content is retrieved from and or persisted to memory and or storage component .

In regard to the transmitter aspect of transceiver component the transmitter aspect can be communicatively coupled to a modulator that can multiplex frames for transmission by the transmitter aspect through the receive and transmit antenna arrays to one or more mobile devices.

In the context of the inference engine and or the intelligence component discussed above these components in order to facilitate their respective aims can examine the entirety or a subset of data to which it is granted access and can provide for reasoning about or inferring relevancy to and desirability of utilizing respective factors. An inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. An inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events or data.

Such inference can result in construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classifications explicitly or implicitly trained schemes or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines etc. can be employed in connection with performing automatic or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier can map an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class such as by f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hyper surface in the space of possible inputs where the hyper surface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used in this disclosure also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

Referring now to presented is a flow diagram of an example application of systems disclosed in this description in accordance with an aspect. In an aspect exemplary methodology of a system for pre fetching video content from a content server or service for playback on a mobile device is stored in a memory and utilizes a processor to execute computer executable instructions to perform functions. At a request for a video or media content of interest to a user of a mobile device can be generated e.g. using request component . At a rule that can be utilized by a content server in fulfillment of the request can be associated with the request for the video or media content of interest e.g. using rule component . At the request for the video or media of interest together with the rule that can govern how a content server should return the video or media content of interest can be transmitted to the content server e.g. using transceiver component .

Referring now to presented is a flow diagram of another example application of systems disclosed in this description accordance with an aspect. In an aspect exemplary methodology of a system for pre fetching video content from a content server for playback on a mobile device is stored in a memory and utilizes a processor to execute computer executable instructions to perform functions. At a request for media content of interest to a user of a mobile device can be received by a content server wherein the request can include at least one rule pertaining to the mobile device and or transmission preferences associated with the transmission of the requested media content back to the requesting mobile device e.g. using transceiver component and or download component . At the requested media content of interest to the user of the mobile device is transmitted back to the mobile device that generated and dispatched the request for media content e.g. using transceiver scheduling component and modification component .

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described in this disclosure. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

In addition to the various aspects described in this disclosure it is to be understood that other similar aspects can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described aspect s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding aspect s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described in this disclosure and similarly storage can be effected across a plurality of devices. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited to any single aspect but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

The systems and processes described below can be embodied within hardware such as a single integrated circuit IC chip multiple ICs an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders not all of which may be explicitly illustrated in this disclosure.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory a codec and a system bus . In an aspect processing unit and system memory can represent processor and memory respectively. The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 13184 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and non volatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory . In addition according to present innovations codec may include at least one of an encoder or decoder wherein the at least one of an encoder or decoder may consist of hardware a combination of hardware and software or software. Although codec is depicted as a separate component codec may be contained within non volatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. According to present aspects the volatile memory may store the write operation retry logic not shown in and the like. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM .

Computer may also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage medium. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive solid state disk SSD floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 70 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage medium separately or in combination with other storage medium including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . Applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data such as the boot shutdown transaction table and the like stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device a smart phone a tablet or other network node and typically includes many of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then connected via communication connection s . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN and cellular networks. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and wired and wireless Ethernet cards hubs and routers.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with this disclosure. System can for example be employed in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or components described herein and shown . The system includes one or more client s e.g. laptops smart phones PDAs media players computers portable electronic devices tablets and the like . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware or hardware in combination with software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing aspects of this disclosure for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet transmitted between two or more computer processes wherein the data packet may include video data. The data packet can include metadata e.g. associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet or mobile network s that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s include or are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively include or are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

In one aspect a client can transfer an encoded file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter to server . Server can store the file decode the file or transmit the file to another client . It is to be appreciated that a client can also transfer uncompressed file to a server and server can compress the file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. Likewise server can encode video information and transmit the information via communication framework to one or more clients .

The illustrated aspects of the disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Moreover it is to be appreciated that various components described in this description can include electrical circuit s that can include components and circuitry elements of suitable value in order to implement the aspects of the subject innovation s . Furthermore it can be appreciated that many of the various components can be implemented on one or more integrated circuit IC chips. For example in one aspect a set of components can be implemented in a single IC chip. In other aspects one or more of respective components are fabricated or implemented on separate IC chips.

What has been described above includes examples of the aspects of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but it is to be appreciated that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the above description of illustrated aspects of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed aspects to the precise forms disclosed. While specific aspects and examples are described in this disclosure for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such aspects and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the disclosure illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

The aforementioned systems circuits modules have been described with respect to interaction between several components blocks. It can be appreciated that such systems circuits and components blocks can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but known by those of skill in the art.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As used in this application the terms component module system or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware e.g. a circuit a combination of hardware and software software or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor e.g. digital signal processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function software stored on a computer readable storage medium software transmitted on a computer readable transmission medium or a combination thereof.

Moreover the words example or exemplary are used in this disclosure to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used in this description differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer is typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal that can be transitory such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. For simplicity of explanation the methodologies are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described in this disclosure. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with certain aspects of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methodologies disclosed in this disclosure are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used in this disclosure is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

