---

title: Simultaneous transmission of different types of feedback information in a wireless environment
abstract: Technology for concurrent transmission of various types of feedback information is disclosed. Different types of feedback information are processed according to a predetermined regime that can allow the various types of feedback information to be separated after combination and transmission to the receiving end of a communication link. Some predetermined regimes may include use of orthogonal carrier codes/sequences, mapping to I and Q branches in a dual branch architecture, and concatenation according to a predefined scheme. Consideration is also made for reducing transmission power levels while insuring transmission of important types of feedback information with respect to the various types of feedback information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100951&OS=09100951&RS=09100951
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09100951
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 556 109 filed Nov. 4 2011.

Reliable wireless communication services rely on various forms of feedback. Such forms of feedback include information about transmission channels error coding and reception information in terms of both positive and negative acknowledgments regarding the reception of data. The Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE specifications and specifications for other wireless standards have outlined various scenarios for the transmission of such data between a User Equipment UE and a base station or an evolved Node B eNodeB uses of eNodeB are considered to apply throughout this application to base stations referred to as enhanced Node B base stations .

As demands on wireless communication systems have increased wireless systems have incorporated new technologies such as carrier aggregation to meet these demands. A combination of increased demands and new technologies however have resulted in more complicated feedback protocols and increases in the amount of feedback that needs to be communicated. For example by adding additional component carriers to the communication environment to increase bandwidth multiple new cells are created each using the communication of its own additional feedback information.

In this changing environment outdated protocols result in inefficiencies and failures. For example some solutions presuppose that UEs are configured for resources such as channels that they may not support. At times feedback information is even lost. Additionally resources present under pre existing specifications may no longer be available having been allocated to meet the demands of new technologies.

As set forth above feedback data comes in different varieties. However increasing amounts of feedback information together with increasing demands placed on resources within the network make it important to be able to combine this feedback information for efficient transmission. This is problematic as can be appreciated because each type of feedback data is typically separated at the receiving end of a communication link to be intelligible. To address these needs new approaches and protocols are needed that are capable of providing the functionality enabled by previous specifications preferably enabling improved functionality. These new methods and protocols need to be robust and reliable. Furthermore they need to accommodate increasing demands and changes without presupposing the existence of resources that may not be present by being able to concurrently transmit the various types of feedback information on a single channel.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

As used herein the term reception information can include the terms HARQ ACK NACK information HARQ ACK information and HARQ ACK. 

As used herein the term channel information can include the term Channel State Information CSI . Additional forms of channel information can also include without limitation a Channel Quality Indicator CQI and or a Pre coding Matrix Indicator PMI . Channel and reception information can be viewed as different types of feedback information.

As used herein the term channel data can include the term CSI. Additional forms of channel data can also include without limitation a Channel Quality Indicator CQI and or a Pre coding Matrix Indicator PMI .

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A wireless device such as UE can be configured to provide feedback information from the UE to the eNodeB . In one embodiment the feedback information can be categorized into two types of feedback information namely reception information and channel information. Reception information can include feedback information in the form of Hybrid Automatic Retransmission reQuest HARQ information including ACKnowledgments and or Negative ACKnowledgments for information received at the UE from the eNodeB i.e. HARQ ACK NACK information. Channel information can include information in the form of Channel State Information CSI . The overall amount of channel information and reception information that is provided as feedback from the UE to the eNodeB can be greatly increased by the aggregation of component carriers for which a UE can be configured to transmit and or receive data on different frequencies corresponding to the different component carriers CCs . Release 10 of 3GPP LTE supports the aggregation of carries sufficient for the formation of up to 5 cells. This is illustrated in which shows CC through CC. While each CC is illustrated as being located at a single location it is possible that each CC may be located at a separate location. The locations can be macro nodes such as eNodeB designed to communicate over a large area or low power nodes designed to communicate over a smaller area than macro nodes such as a pico cell a femto cell a home eNodeB and so forth. Each cell can periodically report channel and reception information greatly adding to the amount of feedback information for transmission from the UE to the eNodeB.

A wireless device such as UE is typically configured for simultaneous transmission along a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH and a Physical Uplink Shared CHannel PUSCH . These two channels are used to avoid collisions between channel feedback information and cell reception data for multiple cells for which the UE can also be configured. As depicted in feedback information regarding the reception of data such as the HARQ ACK NACK information may be transmitted on the PUCCH. The channel information such as CSI and PMI can be transmitted on the PUSCH.

However the assumption that a UE and or a given serving cell of a UE is configured for simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmission is often not correct. Where the UE is only configured for PUCCH transmission as depicted in the channel information may be dropped in favor of communicating only reception information leading to reduced reliability and efficiency. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention reception information and channel information can be multiplexed on a single channel to allow both forms of feedback information to be communicated even when the PUCCH and PUSCH are not transmitted simultaneously.

The modulation module is configured to modulate the channel data and the reception data in accordance with a modulation scheme which can also be thought of as a predetermined regime. The modulation scheme is configured to enable the channel information which can be considered as a first series of data that can carry CSI and the reception information which can be considered as a second series of data that can carry HARQ ACK information to be separated or isolated from one another after the channel information and the reception information have been combined.

Examples of such modulation schemes discussed in further detail below include without limitation the use of orthogonal carrier codes also referred to herein as orthogonal sequences corresponding to the two series of data i.e. orthogonal multiplexing the use of distinct branches of a dual branch modulation and coding scheme and concatenation according to a predetermined concatenation scheme that is either possessed by the receiving end of the communication link receiving the combined information and or communicated to the receiving end. The predetermined regimes embed a first component of additional data into the channel data first series of data resulting in a first signal and a second component of additional data into the reception data second series of data resulting in a second signal. The first and second components of additional information can be used in the process of separating isolating the channel data and the reception data after the first signal and second signal have been combined to produce a combined signal transmitted from a wireless device.

The combined information is then processed by a processing module resulting in a processed signal for transmission. The processing module can perform processing operations on the combined information that are generally performed on information to be transmitted by the UE on which the processing module operates. Such operations can include without limitation operations consistent with Discrete Fourier Transform Spread Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing DFT S OFDM for Single Carrier Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing SC OFDM as defined for the uplink transmission in various releases of 3GPP LTE. Other approaches to processing are also possible. Once the combined information has been combined and processed the combined information can be transmitted.

The combined information can be transmitted by a transmission module which can include one or more antennas not shown . The transmission module is configured to prepare the combined information for transmission in accordance with one or more transmission modes. In one embodiment a transmission mode that is supported by 3GPP LTE standards may be used such as without limitation switched diversity and Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO transmission. The transmission module also accomplishes the transmission of the combined information.

Depending on the embodiment the sequence module can simply provision the modulation module with different carrier codes for combination with channel and reception data . Alternatively the sequence module can also generate the carrier codes. In certain embodiments the carrier codes are orthogonal carrier codes orthogonal sequences which are substantially orthogonal one to another.

In some embodiments a scaling module adjusts the power of a signal associated with channel data the reception data or both. In embodiments discussing the scaling of power a hypothetical power scaling factor of 1 can be applied to either a signal associated with channel data reception data or both where a power scaling factor is to be applied to one or both of these signals. In some embodiments it may be preferable that the power of one or more of these signals is not changed. Depending on the embodiment the scaling module can perform its operations on the data either before after or during the combination of the carrier codes with the channel data and the reception data. In certain embodiments no scaling of power takes place. The scaling of power on the channel data and the reception data can be performed to ensure an acceptable Bit Error Rate BER commensurate with the importance that a particular type of feedback data be received.

After the channel and reception data and or a first signal and a second signal respectively associated therewith have been combined with the carrier codes provided by the sequence module they are combined with one another by the combination module . The combination module can include a summer. The combined channel and reception data embedded with the carrier codes is next processed by a processing module and transmitted from the UE by a transmission module as previously discussed with respect to

The modulation module also includes a mapping module for embodiments discussed in further detail below in which the different types of feedback information are mapped on different branches of a dual branch modulation and coding scheme. Although the mapping module may not be used in embodiments employing the screening module and the concatenation module and vice versa the modules are depicted in to show their overall relationship to the processing module and the modulation module

The screening module is used to determine whether embodiments making use of the concatenation module are appropriate as discussed in further detail below. The screening module can also determine that approaches relying on carrier codes are appropriate as also discussed below. The concatenation module concatenates channel data and reception data according to a predetermined scheme.

Both the channel data first series of data and the reception data second series of data are provisioned to coding and modulating modules . The channel and reception data can be provisioned to the coding and modulating modules as bits to which error correction coding constellation mapping or other coding and modulation operations may or may not be applied.

The result from the coding and modulating modules acting substantially on the channel data to the exclusion of the reception data is fed to a first coding multiplier . The first coding multiplier is also fed a first orthogonal carrier code OCC from a first OCC module . The first OCC module is configured to provision store and or generate the first orthogonal carrier code.

Similarly the result from the coding and modulating module acting substantially on the receiver data to the exclusion of the channel data is feed to a second coding multiplier which is also fed a second orthogonal carrier code from a second OCC module . The second OCC module has functions similar to those of the first code module . The two orthogonal carrier codes provided by the first OCC module and the second OCC module are substantially orthogonal to one another.

In certain embodiments the first code module and the second code module are in communication with one another to produce substantially orthogonal carrier codes. They may be viewed as performing the functions of the sequence module of the previous figure whether alone or in conjunction with the first coding multiplier and the second coding multiplier . If more than two different types of feedback information are involved additional carrier codes can be supplied.

In some embodiments but not all such embodiments embedding a first component of additional information and a second component of additional information is accomplished by orthogonal multiplexing with a first and second orthogonal sequence in a single Physical Resource Block PRB semi statically allocated for the channel data to concurrently transmit CSI and HARQ ACK information. In additional embodiments orthogonal multiplexing in the single PRB further comprises block spreading the channel data carrying the CSI with a first sequence. Similarly the reception data carrying the HARQ ACK is block spread with a second substantially orthogonal sequence. In some of these embodiments a signal associated with the channel and or reception data can be multiplied by a power scaling factor after block spreading.

As an additional consideration not all types of feedback information are of equal importance and therefore can be transmitted at different levels of power depending on how essential reception of a given type of feedback information is. In networks of increasing complexity transmitting at power levels that are too high leads to interference. Efforts can be made therefore to reduce transmission power levels when possible. In combining various types of feedback information consideration can be made for power requirements relative to the various types of feedback information for efficient power use.

To address these concerns the information carried by the reception data can be fed into a scaling multiplier to increase the power of the signal carrying the reception data relative to the signal carrying the channel data . A power increase is fed into the scaling multiplier from a power source . By increasing power for the reception data the likelihood of its reception is increased. Depending on the embodiment a similar scaling multiplier and power source can be used to adjust the power of the signal carrying the channel data . Depending on the embodiment one or more scaling multipliers and or one or more power resources can be viewed as making up a scaling module . In certain embodiments power scaling may not be necessary.

After modulating with orthogonal carrier codes and any power scaling processes have occurred both the signal carrying the channel data and the signal carrying the reception data are fed to a summer . The summer accomplishes the combination of the two signals and may be viewed as one example of an implementation accomplishing the functionality of the combination module . Although the information from the channel data and the reception data have been combined the first and second orthogonal carrier codes respectively combined with the channel data and the reception data i.e. first and second components of additional data can allow the channel data to be separated from the reception data at the receiving end of a communication link.

The functionalities provided by any combination of the first coding multiplier the second coding multiplier the first code module the second code module the scaling multiplier the power resource and the summer may be viewed as consistent with any of the modulation modules of the previous figures. The functionalities provided by the coding and modulating modules may be viewed as consistent with functionalities provided by either the modulation modules and or the processing modules and

After the production of a combined signal many of the processing operations associated with 3GPP LTE transmission as defined in various 3GPP LTE Releases can be performed. The functionalities described below may be viewed as consistent with one but not all of the functionalities provided by the processing modules and . As shown in a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT module can be allocated to perform a Fast Fourier Transform FFT on the modulated and combined signal carrying channel data and reception data .

A sub carrier mapping module can also be allocated to map the frequency domain results of the DFT to different sub carriers of a component carrier. The sub carrier module maps the frequency domain results of the DFT to different sub carriers while reserving certain sub carriers for data from other UEs. An Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform IDFT module can then be allocated to perform an inverse Fourier transform on the sub carriers allocated for the DFT results and those allocated for other UEs. The inverse Fourier transform is used to transform the data back into the time domain. The size of the FFT performed by the IDFT will be larger than the size of the FFT performed by the DFT to accommodate the sub carriers reserved from other UEs. Thus the output of the IDFT may not be the same as the input to the DFT.

The results of the IDFT can be fed for further processing by a Cyclic Prefix CP insertion module that adds CPs by the 3GPP LTE specification such as releases 8 9 or 10. A time windowing module can then be allocated to provide windowing operations as also defined in the releases of 3GPP LTE. The foregoing description is consistent with DFT S OFDM processing which is consist with SC OFDM the modulation scheme used for uplink transmission within 3GPP LTE. Additional implementation information can be found in the various releases of the 3GPP LTE specification. Additional processing operations not discussed can also be applicable. Such processing operations can include carrier constellation mapping and serial to parallel conversion in preparation for the DFT .

After modulation and processing of the channel data and the reception data the data is ready for transmission. Transmission is accomplished by means of transmission resources which can include one or more antennas and modules capable of preparing the data for transmission consistent with various transmission regimes defined by the releases of the 3GPP specification. The transmission resources can be viewed as providing functionalities consistent with those of the transmission modules and of previous figures.

Wireless networks use a variety of Modulation and Coding Schemes MCS such as without limitation Binary Phase Shift Keying BPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM and 64 QAM. In digital quadrature modulation and coding schemes unique patterns of binary digits are assigned to a finite number of phases.

The phases occupy spaces located at maximal distances one from another in a two dimension space within which the 360 degrees or 2 radians of all potential phases can be expressed. The location of each of the finite number of phases used can be described in a Cartesian coordinate system with respect to two axes of this two dimensional space. The location of a phase with respect to these two axes can be used to describe a complex number. The two components of this complex numbers real and imaginary can be mapped to different branches commonly referred two as the I Branch and the Q Branch.

Although BPSK only assigns bits to two phases meaning that such a modulation scheme can be defined in one dimension on a single axis between the two opposite phases BPSK can function in a modulation and coding scheme with a separate I Branch and Q Branch by assigning a complex number and the negative of its complex conjugate to the two phases. 3GPP LTE Release 10 applies such an approach so that irrespective of the MCS whether it is BPSK QPSK 16 QAM 64 QAM or something else the same architecture with an I Branch and a Q Branch can be applied.

This dual architecture comprising an I Branch and a Q Branch can be harnessed to allow channel data and reception data to be combined in a way that allows them to be separated after they are combined and transmitted to a receiving end of a communication link such as an uplink to an eNodeB. As depicted in the channel data is mapped to the I branch within such an architecture and the reception data is mapped to the Q branch. However it is possible to invert this mapping. The mapping of the channel data and the reception data to two distinct branches can be viewed as consistent with functionalities provided by the modulation modules of previous figures. Also the mapping of the channel data and the reception data to these two branches can be viewed as providing a first and second component of additional data which can be used to isolate the channel and or reception data after they have been combined.

Once channel data and reception data are mapped to different channels operations are performed on them consistent with the operations that can be attributed to potential functionalities performed by a processing module and . As depicted in this processing can be accomplished by modules within the UE allocated to perform different functions. Such modules can be mirrored along each of the two branches and can include a Reed Muller coding module a rate matching module and a scrambling module 

Details of how the functionalities of these various physical resource blocks can be found in various releases of the 3GPP LTE specifications. However by way of a brief overview the Reed Muller coding modules apply one or more linear error correcting codes from a family of such codes known as Reed Muller codes for the purpose of error correction. The rate matching modules perform rate matching functions to match the amount of transmission data to the available capacity of the different physical channels either through puncturing or repeating data. The scrambling modules give the transmitted data useful properties for purposes of communication by for example changing the probability for the occurrence of problematic sequences.

A phase change physical module is then applied to one of the branches. In the embodiment depicted with respect to the phase change is applied to the Q branch. However in alternative embodiments the phase change module applies a phase change to the I branch. A phase change can also be applied to both branches. The one or more phase changes make the I branch and the Q branch substantially orthogonal to one another. The phase change physical module and its functionality may also be viewed as consistent with functionalities provided by the modulation modules of previous figures.

Also consist with functionalities provided by the modulation modules and or the scaling module are functionalities provided by scalar one and scalar two which are modules configured to provide a power source at a predetermined power. Similarly the functionalities provided by a first scaling multiplier and or a second scaling multiplier are consistent with functionalities provided by the modulation modules and or the scaling module . The scaling functionalities provided by scalar one scalar two scaling multiplier one and or scaling multiplier two adjust the power on the two branches relative to one another. In this way power can be conserved on the branch with the channel data and successful transmission of the reception data can be insured. In some embodiments the different power scaling factors can be applied to the channel data and the reception data before mapping to the two different branches.

A combination module which in some embodiments can be a summer is also provided. The summer in combines the information on the I branch with the information on the Q branch to produce a combined signal. The functionalities provided by the summer are consistent with functionalities provided by modulation modules and or a combination module .

In certain embodiments the combined signal can be divided by a dividing module to allow the combined signal to be transmitted in two slots of the same sub frame. Two pre DFT modules are provided with pre DFT processing capabilities which can include constellation mapping and or serial to parallel conversion. The two pre DFT modules may be viewed as consistent with functionalities provided by processing modules . Additional processing performed in preparation for transmission including DFT has been discussed with respect to the previous figure.

Unlike other embodiments discussed above however embodiments relying on concatenation present obstacles to providing different power levels with respect to channel data and reception data. Because of the importance of accurate and reliable reception of one of the forms of data usually the reception data the combined concatenation data is typically transmitted at a relatively high power. The higher power level also allows the reception data to be communicated with a lower order MCS such as without limitation BPSK. However in wireless communication environments where power of transmission is at a premium questions arise as to whether this is always justified.

Power is at a premium not only to extend batter life on a UE but also to avoid interference. To handle greatly increasing demands on wireless networks technologies such as carrier aggregation and heterogeneous networks have come to be relied upon. Unfortunately these technologies increase the likelihood of interference on increasingly crowded networks. To avoid interference it is often advantageous not to blast out transmissions at high powers and to coordinate the power of transmissions.

Therefore a justification for power allocation is often desirable. To transmit relatively less important information at relatively high levels reserved to insure the reception of more important information is only justifiable in certain scenarios. Such a justification can obtain where a sufficiently small amount of information of less importance which would otherwise be transmitted at a lower power is included with more important information for transmission at a higher power that is appropriate for the more important information. The transmission at the higher power may only be justified for a short period so it can be important to ensure that the amount of important information transmitted at the higher power is not too large.

Scenarios meeting these justifications can include scenarios where the combined payload of both the less important information which can be referred to throughout this application as a first data series payload size and a CSI payload size and the more important information which can be referred to throughout this application as a second data series payload size and a HARQ ACK payload size is relatively small. A threshold level can be defined at a particular predetermined value M for the maximum justifiable size of the data as measured in bits. This threshold can be defined in certain embodiments by the combined payload.

Another such scenario can be defined for situations where an amount of relatively less important information is relatively small compared to an amount of relatively more important information. Although many ratios can be possible a ratio of 1 to 3 or less can be used in certain embodiments. The predetermined ratio can be defined in terms of relative payloads. For example in one embodiment a payload carrying relatively less important CSI information may be about a third as large as a payload carrying more important HACK NACK information. While example limitations are provided herein they are not intended to be limiting. The ratio can be larger than 1 to 3 depending on the environment in which the wireless signals travel system limitations and so forth as can be appreciated.

Because of the desirability of justifying power allocations embodiments relying on concatenation can be preceded by a decision process that can be implemented by code embedded in non volatile memory in communication with a processor and or by dedicated hardware. A decision process consistent with certain embodiments is depicted in . The decision processes begins by determining whether both channel data and reception data are available for concurrent transmission. In certain embodiments as discussed above reception data can comprise HARQ ACK NACK information and channel data can comprise CSI information but other forms of channel and reception data are possible.

If only reception data is present possibly in the form of HARQ ACK NACK information then there is no need for concatenation and the process proceeds with transmission of the reception data such as a HARQ transmission in this example. If both channel data and reception data are available for concurrent transmission however the process proceeds to a determination whether a first condition about the size of a combined transmission is met. In this size condition is couched in terms of the combined payload relative to a predetermined threshold value M but other approaches for evaluating the size of the combined transmission are possible.

If the combined payload is not less than a threshold value M a modulation scheme determination is made by which it is determined whether the UE supports a DFT S OFDM modulation and coding scheme. If the UE does not support a DFT S OFDM modulation and coding scheme there are no other resources for combining channel information and reception information. Since the required power allocation for a concatenation approach is not justified the relatively less important information is dropped and the relatively more important information is transmitted . In the embodiment depicted in the relatively less important information is channel data in the form of CSI and the relatively more important information is reception data in the form of HARQ information but other scenarios as appreciated are possible.

Conversely if the UE supports a DFT S OFDM modulation and coding scheme the process proceeds to employ an embodiment for the concurrent transmission of channel and reception data consistent with embodiments described above with respect to which rely on substantially orthogonal carrier codes. Possible scenarios have been discussed previously as to how transmission might proceed where the combined signal is too large to justify power allocation for a concatenation approach. Other possibilities exist where the size condition warrants a concatenation approach.

In certain embodiments a result that a concatenation approach is warranted based on the size condition is all that is necessary. In such embodiments joint coding by concatenation proceeds followed by transmission . In other embodiments an additional ratio determination is made corresponding to a second condition before proceeding with concatenation and transmission . The ratio determination determines if the size of relatively less important information relative to relatively more important information is sufficiently small. In this determination is made in terms of the payload size of channel data relative to the payload size of reception data in relation to a predetermined threshold value but other approaches are possible.

If the ratio is not sufficiently small the process proceeds to the modulation scheme determination from which the process can play out according to different scenarios discussed above with respect to possible outcomes for the modulation scheme determination. If however the ratios are sufficiently small less than a predetermined ratio value as previously discussed then the process can proceed with joint coding by concatenation and transmission . Depending on the embodiment the order of the size determination and the ratio determination can be switched. In certain embodiments the size determination is not made and the decision process relies solely on the ratio determination . Additional determinations can be possible.

Several examples of possible predetermined regimes have been provided in this specification including without limitation modulation based on orthogonal multiplexing with orthogonal carrier codes sequences mapping to I and Q branches in a dual branch architecture and concatenation according to a predefined scheme. Additional regimes are possible. Each of these regimes produces at least a first and second signal. The first and second signals include a first and second component of additional information respectively. Non limiting examples of an additional component of information include an orthogonal carrier code a phase shift and or the placement of one type of information in certain positions of concatenated data. These approaches provide additional information that can be used to isolate the corresponding type of feedback information after it has been combined with another type of information. The guiding principle of such regimes is to embed each type of feedback information with a unique component of additional information that will allow the various types of feedback information to be separated after combination and transmission at the receiving end of a communication link.

Once the various types of feedback information have been modulated in accordance with a predefined regime they are combined in a combined signal. In certain embodiments the combined signal is further processed for uplink transmission. However certain aspects of processing can occur before combination and before and during modulation. The combined signal is then transmitted .

The method also comprises as shown in block embedding the second series of data carrying HARQ ACK information with a second component of additional information configured to enable the second series of data to be isolated from the first series of data resulting in a second signal. The method continues by combining the first signal with the second signal to produce a combined signal as shown in block . Block shows transmitting the combined signal from the wireless device.

In some embodiments embedding the first series of data carrying the CSI and the second series of data comprises concatenating the first series of data and the second series of data according to a predefined concatenation scheme. The predefined concatenation scheme can make up the first component of additional information and the second component of additional information necessary to separate the first series of data and the second series of data after they have been combined. In certain embodiments concatenation is only performed where at least one of a first condition and a second condition is met. The first condition can be that a sum of a first data series payload size of the first series of data and a second data series payload size of the second series of data is smaller than a predetermined value. The second condition is that a ratio of the first data series payload size over the second data series payload size is smaller than a predetermined ratio value.

In alternative embodiments embedding the first series of data carrying the CSI with a first component of additional information and embedding the second series of data carrying the HARQ ACK information with a second component of additional information comprises orthogonal multiplexing the first series of data and the second series of data in a single Physical Resource Block PRB semi statically allocated for the first series of data to concurrently transmit the CSI and the HARQ ACK information. Certain embodiments of this type can first require determining that one or more of a first condition a second condition and a third condition has been met. The first condition can be that a sum of a first data series payload size of the first series of data and a second data series payload size of the second series of data is not smaller than a predetermined value. The second condition can be that the ratio of the first data series payload size over the second data series payload size data is not smaller than a predetermined ratio value. The third condition is that a PUCCH resource for the first series of data and for the second series of data is co located in a single PRB.

In such embodiments orthogonal multiplexing the first series of data and the second series of data in the single PRB further comprises block spreading the first series of data carrying the CSI with a first sequence and the second series of data carrying the HARQ ACK with a second sequence. The first sequence can be substantially orthogonal to the second sequence. Such embodiments can additionally include multiplying at least one of the first series of data and the second series of data by a power scaling factor after block spreading with the corresponding orthogonal first sequence and second sequence before combining the two series of data.

Similarly processing the combined signal for transmission with Discrete Fourier Transform Spread Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing DFT S OFDM can also be performed. Such embodiments can also include configuring the wireless device with at least one PUCCH Format 3 HARQ ACK resource for CSI transmission in a single PRB semi statically. Additionally the first series of data and second series of data can be mapped to the single PUCCH format 3 PRB that is semi statically allocated for CSI transmission after orthogonal block spreading and DFT S OFDM processing.

In further alternative embodiments embedding the first series of data carrying the CSI with the first component of additional information and embedding the second series of data carrying the HARQ ACK information with the second component of additional information can comprise mapping the first series of data carrying the CSI to one of an I branch and a Q branch of a dual branch modulation scheme comprising the first component of additional information and the second series of data carrying the HARQ ACK information to the remaining branch of a dual branch modulation scheme comprising the second component of additional information. Such embodiments can also include multiplying the first and the second series of data by two different power scaling factors correspondingly before mapping to two branches of a dual branch modulation scheme. In certain embodiments the first series of data carrying the CSI can be dropped and only the second series of data carrying the HARQ ACK information transmitted where the UE is only configured for PUCCH transmission.

Referring back to to modules for a device for supporting concurrent transmission of channel and reception information are depicted. Such a device includes a modulation module operating at a UE. The modulation module is configured to modulate channel data CSI to assist in separating the channel data from reception data and at an eNodeB. The modulation module is also configured to modulate the HARQ ACK information data to assist in separating the reception data from the channel data at the eNodeB. The device also comprises a processing module and . The processing module is configured to process combined data comprising the channel data and the reception data for transmission. Also included is a transmission module configured to transmit the combined data.

Certain embodiments can be provided with a concatenation module configured to concatenate data from the channel data CSI with data from the reception data HARQ ACK information according to a predefined concatenation scheme. Similarly some embodiments can be provided with a screening module configured to first determine that at least one condition has not been obtained of a first condition and a second condition. The first condition is that a combined payload of the channel data CSI and the reception data HARQ ACK information is smaller than a predefined value. The second condition is that a ratio of a CSI payload associated with the CSI over a HARQ ACK payload associated with the HARQ ACK information is smaller than a predefined ratio value. Where one or more of these conditions does not apply the approach relying on orthogonal carrier codes provided by the sequence module can be employed.

In embodiments applying concatenation however before concatenation takes place the screening module can ensure that a combined payload of the channel data CSI and the reception data HARQ ACK information is smaller than a predefined value. The screening module can also or in the alternative ensure that a ratio of a CSI payload associated with the channel data CSI over a HARQ ACK payload associated with the reception data HARQ ACK information is smaller than a predefined ratio value.

In certain embodiments the device can further comprise a sequence module . The sequence module can be configured to provide a first sequence to the modulation module to modulate the CSI by block spreading the CSI with the first sequence and a second sequence to the modulation module to modulate the HARQ ACK information by block spreading the HARQ ACK information with the second sequence. The first sequence can be substantially orthogonal to the second sequence. Additionally a combination module can be provided which is configured to combine the channel data CSI and the reception data HARQ ACK information after modulation.

Alternative embodiments can be provided with a mapping module . The mapping module can be configured to map the channel data CSI to one of an I branch and a Q branch of a dual branch modulation and coding scheme. The mapping module can further map the reception data HARQ ACK information to the remaining branch of the I branch and the Q branch of the dual branch modulation and coding scheme. Such embodiments can also be provided with a combination module configured to combine the channel data CSI and the reception data HARQ ACK information after modulation. Any of the previously discussed embodiments of the devise can be provided with a scaling module . The scaling module can be configured to scale a transmission power associated with at least one of the channel data and the reception data. Certain embodiments also include a scaling module configured to multiply at least one of the CSI and the HARQ ACK information by a power scaling factor after modulation and before the combination module combines the CSI and the HARQ ACK information.

In certain embodiments such a method further comprises providing the eNodeB with the predefined concatenation scheme. Such embodiments can also comprise determining at least one of the predefined payload value and the predefined ratio value on the basis acceptable BERs. These acceptable BERs are based on the type of feedback data involved in the transmission.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

