---

title: Generating and updating online content using standardized tagged data
abstract: Methods, and systems, including computer programs encoded on computer-readable media, for managing content associated with a content campaign of a content provider are disclosed herein. In one aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a system of generating and updating online content using standardized tagged data. The system may periodically crawl a document that includes one or more document reference tags. The system may identify at least one document reference tag and corresponding tagged data. The system may receive a request for content to display. The system may select an item of content comprising a content reference tag corresponding to the at least one document reference tag. Responsive to the request for content, the system may replace the content reference tag with the corresponding tagged data to assemble an item of content. The system may transmit the assembled content for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135345&OS=09135345&RS=09135345
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09135345
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
Content providers often sell their products or services using the Internet. A content provider may manage a website with multiple webpages publishing information and content related to products or services offered by the content provider. These webpages may be created manually by webpage administrators. Alternatively the webpages may be generated automatically based on content management systems and or inventory control systems. For example for an online retailer the webpages for the retailer s products can be automatically generated based on content in a product and inventory database. As a result the content provider may have numerous webpages to manage and keep track of.

To promote products and services on the Internet the content provider may create multiple online content items that mention product details e.g. product description product price etc. . The content provider may have a separate online content item e.g. advertisement for each product or service promoted on their webpages. However information and content on the content provider s webpages relating to products being offered e.g. product price frequently changes.

At least one aspect is directed to a computer implemented method of managing content associated with a content campaign of a content provider. The method can include a content server periodically crawling a document that includes one or more document reference tags. The method can include identifying at least one document reference tag and corresponding tagged data. The method can include the content server storing the at least one document reference tag in association with the corresponding tagged data in a memory element. The method can include the content server receiving a request for content to display. The method can include selecting an item of content comprising a content reference tag corresponding to the at least one document reference tag. The method can include retrieving from the memory element the corresponding tagged data associated with the document reference tag. The method can include replacing the content reference tag with the corresponding tagged data to assemble an item of content responsive to the request. The method can include transmitting the assembled content for display.

In some implementations the method can include identifying at least one of a content group identification a display URL content text and a keyword. In some implementations the tagged data includes a tag name. In some implementations the tagged data includes one or more parameters where each parameter includes a parameter name and data content. The at least one of the one or more parameters can include data content specifying a tag name. The tag name value can be determined based on crawling the document. In some implementations at least one of the parameters identifies at least one of a price quantity discount percentage. In some implementations at least one of the parameters identifies a product description.

In some implementations the method can include obtaining the document on a predetermined intermittent basis. The method can include crawling the document to identify an additional document reference tag and tagged data. Responsive to the identification the method can include generating one or more additional content based at least in part on the additional tagged data.

In some implementations the tagged data includes content update data for updating a second content associated with the content campaign.

In some implementations the method can include determining content update data from the tagged data using the standardized document reference tag. The method can include updating the second content stored in a database of the content server with the content update data. In some implementations the content update data includes an updated price corresponding to the second content.

At least one aspect is directed to a system for managing content comprising a web page crawler and data storage. In some implementations the system includes one or more processing circuits. The system can periodically crawl a document that includes one or more document reference tags. The system can identify at least one document reference tag and corresponding tagged data. The system can store the at least one document reference tag in association with the corresponding tagged data in a memory element. The system can receive a request for content to display. The system can select an item of content comprising a content reference tag corresponding to the at least one document reference tag. The system can retrieve from the memory element the corresponding tagged data associated with the document reference tag. The system can replace the content reference tag with the corresponding tagged data to assemble an item of content responsive to the request. The system can transmit the assembled content for display.

At least one aspect is directed to a computer readable storage medium having instructions to manage content associated with a content campaign of a content provider stored thereon. The instructions can comprise instructions to periodically crawl a document that includes one or more document reference tags. The instructions can comprise instructions to identify at least one document reference tag and corresponding tagged data. The instructions can comprise instructions to store the at least one document reference tag in association with the corresponding tagged data in a memory element. The instructions can comprise instructions to receiving a request for content to display. The instructions can comprise instructions to select an item of content comprising a content reference tag corresponding to the at least one document reference tag. The instructions can comprise instructions to retrieve from the memory element the corresponding tagged data associated with the document reference tag. The instructions can comprise instructions to replace the content reference tag with the corresponding tagged data to assemble an item of content responsive to the request. The instructions can comprise instructions to transmit the assembled content for display.

To reach Internet customers content providers e.g. advertisers may utilize websites to offer and sell products or services. A website may consist of multiple webpages with each webpage containing information and content e.g. an advertisement image text video multimedia element for one or multiple products or services. For example a web store platform may have thousands of webpages automatically generated based on the inventory or product database. The content provider webpages can display such product or services information as product image product price product description etc.

Using a content management system e.g. advertisement server the content providers can create and manage online content to promote the products and or services offered on their websites. A content provider may sell thousands of products online. To promote these products the content provider may have numerous content items promoting specific products e.g. at least the best selling products or product categories making the content items relevant for searching users. A content item can be an online advertisement. An exemplary advertisement can include any combination of the following data a headline a product description a display uniform resource locator URL a destination URL and other product or webpage information. The product description can include product name description price number of items left in stock etc.

The content items associated with the product may be updated when the content provider webpage is changed to reflect the product changes. For example when a product information or price is updated or a product is sold out the online content may be updated. Content providers can tag information on their webpages in a standardized way that the content management system can understand. The content management system can include a content provider webpage crawler configured to scan content provider webpages and upon detection of standardized tagged data update corresponding content items using the detected standardized tagged data.

For example product description data in a content item stored in the content management system can include standardized tag identifiers for various product details e.g. a tag identifier for a product price . The content provider webpage crawler can scan the content provider webpage detect the tag identifiers and tag data and update the information in the content item using the detected tag data. When the product or service details change on the content provider s webpage the corresponding content items are automatically updated to reflect those changes. As a result the content provider does not have to manually update numerous e.g. hundreds or thousands of content items with product or service detail changes appearing on their webpages.

In these embodiments content items created by the content providers can contain tagging information including tag identifiers as illustrated in . A content provider webpage source code e.g. HyperText Markup Language HTML code can include the tag identifiers contained in the content item as well as corresponding product or service data as illustrated in FIGS. A and A B.

In other embodiments a content provider s webpage may include information sufficient to automatically generate a new content item. In these embodiments the tagged data included on the content provider s webpage may include keywords content text destination URL tags etc. The content provider webpage crawler can intermittently scan the webpage and detect the new content data. The content management system can generate new content items based on the detected tagged data.

Accordingly the tagged data included in content providers webpages can be used to update existing content items as well as create new content items. For example a change to a price associated with a particular product reflected in the tagging information on the content provider s webpage will be reflected in a content item associated with this product. Accordingly the content provider can build long tail campaigns with specific content items e.g. advertisements for each product and the content items can be automatically updated with changes to price or other data associated with the products using the tagged data.

Although the embodiments are described in the context of an content management system e.g. advertisement management system other types of systems can employ the standardized tagging techniques described herein. For example a webpage enabling users to manage their finances can use the standardized tags and a feature in another product e.g. Excel could import the data included in the standardized tags and have it update itself to reflect changes on the webpage. In some embodiments using consistently tagged prices products names and other product or service attributes across various websites on the Internet an effective and accurate comparison of product or service prices can be automatically performed.

In further detail in some implementations the content management system includes a webpage crawler configured to scan webpages of various content providers for standardized tagged information. In some implementations the web page crawler can include an ant automatic indexer bots web spiders and or web robots. For example when the webpage crawler detects standardized tagged information e.g. a document reference tag on a content provider s webpage one or more content items stored in the data storage corresponding to the products or services offered on the webpage are updated with information from the detected tagging information. In some embodiments the content management system and or the webpage crawler can maintain a list of webpages that the crawler intermittently scans. In other embodiments the content provider can initiate the scanning of a webpage e.g. by clicking on a button on a user interface .

The content management system and or the webpage crawler can maintain standardized tags e.g. XML tags that would indicate to the content provider webpage crawler that the tag includes data for updating an existing content or creating a new content. For example as illustrated in the tags AwTag and AdTag are used. However any other names can be used for tags. For example instead of using specific tags such as AdTag existing standard HTML tags e.g. can be used to include some of the content information. In this example AdTag can be translated to span class AdTag and that AwTag can be translated to meta name AwAd . In another example the content can be generated using a scripting language e.g. JavaScript and the creation of content or updating of existing content would be implemented using the scripting language. Accordingly the tags can be replaced with a short script code or any code that is not displayed to the user of the web browser.

When the content provider webpage crawler encounters the AwTag tag it can determine that the tag data includes data for creating new content item or updating an existing content item. In some embodiments multiple tags can be used. For example a first tag would indicate that the tag contents include data for a new content item while a second tag different from the first tag would indicate to the content provider webpage crawler that the tag contents include data for an existing content item.

The environment includes a network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless network the Internet or a combination thereof. The network connects websites user devices content providers and the content management system . Environment may include any number of websites user devices and content providers .

A website includes one or more resources associated with a domain name and hosted by one or more servers. An example website is a collection of webpages formatted in hypertext markup language HTML that can contain text images multimedia content and programming elements such as scripts.

A resource is any data that can be provided over the network . The resource is identified by a resource address that is associated with the resource such as a URL. Resources can include webpages word processing documents portable document format PDF documents images video programming elements interactive content and feed sources to name only a few. Resources can include content such as words phrases images and sounds that may include embedded information such as meta information in hyperlinks and or embedded instructions. Embedded instructions can include code that is executed at a user s device such as in a web browser. Code can be written in languages such as JavaScript or ECMAScript .

A user device is an electronic device that is under the control of a user. User device is configured to request and receive resources over the network . Example user devices include personal computers mobile communication devices and other devices that can send and receive data over the network . In some implementations the user devices may include a user application such as a web browser to facilitate the sending and receiving of data over the network .

The user devices can request resources from a website . In turn data representing the resource can be provided to user device for presentation by user device e.g. on an electronic display as an audible sound via a speaker or a combination thereof . The data representing the resource can include data specifying a portion of the resource or a portion of a user display e.g. a presentation location of a pop up window or in a slot of a webpage in which content items can be presented. These specified portions of the resource or user display are referred to as content slots e.g. advertisement slots .

To facilitate searching of the vast number of resources accessible over the network environment may include a search system that identifies resources by crawling and indexing resources provided on websites . Data about resources can be indexed based on the resource with which the data is associated. The indexed and optionally cached copies of resources are stored in a search index not shown .

User devices can submit search queries to the search system over the network . In response the search system accesses the search index to identify resources that are relevant to the search query. In one illustrative embodiment a search query includes one or more keywords. The search system identifies resources that are responsive to the query provides information about resources in the form of search results and returns the search results to the user devices in search results pages. A search result can include data generated by the search system that identifies the resource that is responsive to a particular search query and can include a link to the resource . An example search result can include a webpage title a snippet of text or a portion of an image extracted from webpage a rendering of the resource and the URL of the webpage . Search results pages can also include one or more content slots in which content can be presented.

A search result page can be sent with a request from the search system for the web browser of the user device to set an HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol cookie. A cookie can represent for example a particular user device and a particular web browser. For example the search system includes a server that replies to the query by sending the search results page in an HTTP response. This HTTP response includes instructions e.g. a set cookie instruction that cause the browser to store a cookie for the site hosted by the server or for the domain of the server. If the browser supports cookies and cookies are enabled every subsequent page request to the same server or a server within the domain of the server will include the cookie. The cookie can store a variety of data including a unique or semi unique identifier. The unique or semi unique identifier can be anonymized and is not connected with user names.

For situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed when generating parameters e.g. demographic parameters . For example a user s identity may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by a content server.

When the resource or search results are requested by a user device or provided to user device the content management system receives a request for content to be provided with the resource or search results. The request for content can include characteristics of the content slots that are defined for the requested the resource or search results page and can be provided to content management system . For example a reference e.g. URL to the resource for which the content slot is defined a size of the content slot and or media types that are available for presentation in the content slot can be provided to content management system . Similarly keywords i.e. one or more words that are associated with content associated with a requested the resource resource keywords or a search query for which search results are requested can also be provided to the content management system to facilitate identification of content that is relevant to the resource or search query.

Based on the data included in the request for content the content management system can select content items that are eligible to be provided in response to the request eligible content . For example eligible content can include content items having characteristics matching the characteristics of content slots and that are identified as relevant to specified resource keywords or search queries. In some implementations content items having targeting keywords that match the resource keywords the search query or portions of the search query are selected as eligible content by content management system .

The content management system selects an eligible content item for each content slot of the resource or of a search results page. The resource or search results page is received by the user device for presentation by the user device .

Content providers can submit to the content management system campaign parameters e.g. targeting keywords and corresponding bids that are used to control distribution of content. Content providers can create custom content items to be served to users. The content item can contain product or services information as well as a URL of a destination webpage. In some embodiments the content items include standardized tags. In these embodiments the data for these tags is located on the content provider webpage.

In other embodiments the tagged data contains data including content data for new content item. illustrates an example of tagged data including data for a new content item e.g. and . Once the webpage crawler detects information on the content provider webpage e.g. using the AwAd tag that includes tagging information having data for existing or new content the corresponding existing content items stored in the content data store are updated with the detected data or new content items are created and stored in the content data storage .

In some embodiments the webpage crawler can manage or have access to a list of content provider websites or a site map including content provider websites. The webpage crawler can visit the websites on the list of content provider websites on an intermittent basis when requested by an administrator of the content management system or when requested by a content provider. In some embodiments upon receiving a request from a content provider for content items be automatically updated or generated the webpage crawler scans the webpages associated with the content provider and updates the content items with up to date product information.

Although only content provider websites through are shown the webpage crawler can scan any number of content provider websites. Although only a single webpage crawler is shown the content management system can include multiple webpage crawlers. As shown in the webpage crawler can be implemented in the content management system . In other embodiments the webpage crawler can be locally implemented in a desktop content management system. In other embodiments the content management system may provide an application programming interface API that can be utilized to automatically generate new content items and or edit existing content items.

The product description area in the webpage displays product description and the price information area displays wine price to the user. As illustrated the pricing information area indicates that the price of this particular wine was adjusted from 12.99 to 8.99. The webpage enables the user to purchase the Carnet Sauvignon 2009 at the price indicated in the price information area .

The content provider webpage includes HTML data including tagged data and . As shown the tagged data includes Cabernet Sauvignon 2009 which incorporates a product description as identified by a tag identifier T1 . The tagged data includes 8.99. Accordingly the T2 tag identifier identifies the current price for the product i.e. 8.99 . As the price for the product changes the tagged data is updated automatically by a computing system or by a webpage administrator with the new price. In some embodiments the webpage is automatically generated and or updated by a content management system and or inventory control system.

When the content item is served to the user it will display the product description and price that was specified in the tagged data and . illustrates the content item that was generated using the tagged data and . Accordingly the content item includes up to date data including current price for the product. Advantageously the content provider does not have to manually update the content when an aspect of the content changes e.g. pricing data .

The tagged data specifies display URL as www.phoneswebsite.com for the content item. If not specified the display URL and or destination URL can default to the URL of the webpage that included the tagged data . Keywords for the content include value of T1 tag i.e. Phone S2 cheap phone Cheap Phone S2 and best phone . Accordingly the content may be served to a user entering one of the keywords included in the list of keywords in the tagged data . The tagged data specifies that the adgroup associated with the content provider s content campaign for the content item is phones . The content provider s content campaign may include one or more adgroups with each adgroup including a set of keywords. The adgroup specified in the tagging information can include a new adgroup or an existing adgroup.

When the webpage crawler detects the tagged data and e.g. upon detection of AwTag tag the content management system generates a new content item using the data in the tagged data and . illustrates the new content item generated based on the tagged data in the HTML data associated with the content provider s webpage. Accordingly new content item can be automatically created by detecting and interpreting tagged data embedded in the content provider s webpages.

In some implementations standardized tags can be used with a pre defined way to structure the attributes. For example already existing HTML tags e.g. tag can be used to include information regarding the content shown on the webpage for detection by the webpage crawler . For example or can be used to indicate the price of a product. Accordingly would replace . For example referring to the following tag can be part of the head of the webpage such that 

However attributes that can be assigned to the tag may be limited for older versions of HTML and XHTML e.g. versions prior to HTML5 . In other embodiments content updating and new content generation can be performed using similar techniques described herein but using a scripting language such as JavaScript instead of HTML tagging .

In some embodiments if the webpage containing the tagged data is removed then the content associated with this data can be removed from the content management system . In these embodiments the content associated with the tagged data will no longer be displayed to users. If the price product name or other data included in the tagged data is changed the content is updated accordingly after the webpage crawler detects the change.

Although only product description and product price tags are shown in and any other tags can be used that are associated with a content campaign. For example a tag can be included that specifies that the content item e.g. advertisement related to a product should be running or paused e.g. based upon inventory levels of the product . In another example tags can specify maximum bids which could be automatically calculated by an inventory control system or another system to optimize cost per conversion for each product based on both inventory levels and margins.

In some implementations the content e.g. advertisements can be constructed in real time dynamically when they are to be presented to a user e.g. either on a search webpage or as an online advertisement in a content network . The webpage crawler visits the webpage in real time i.e. runtime when the content is about to be displayed. From the website the webpage crawler would fetch the current tagged data construct the new content and present it to the user. In this implementation the actual values of the tagged data would not necessarily be stored on the content management system but instead be read directly from the content website when needed.

In further detail at step the method can include periodically crawling a document that includes one or more document reference tags. In some implementations the document may include an online webpage or website corresponding to a domain word processing document HTML document or another type of document that includes information related to online content. The document may include at least one of text symbols characters media content hyperlinks document reference tags tagged data or other information. In some implementations the document reference tag may refer to or correspond to tagged data. For example a document that includes document reference tags may refer to a document that includes at least one of tagged data tag name tag value parameter name and data content. For example a document reference tag may refer to 

In some implementations the method may include receiving or obtaining the document and storing it on the content server. For example a document owner provider such as e.g. a web page owner author or other content producer may upload or otherwise transmit the document to the content management server. In some implementations the method may include crawling scanning or parsing a document residing on a server or other storage associated with the document owner provider. In some implementations the method may include crawling the document responsive to a request to crawl the document made by a user such as e.g. the document owner provider content provider advertiser etc. In some implementations the method may include periodically crawling the document based on a predetermined time interval. For example the document owner or content provider may indicate to a web crawler or content management system a time interval such as e.g. hourly daily weekly bi weekly monthly or any other time interval. In some implementations the web crawler may crawl the document responsive to an event or condition. The event may include a document update event where a document owner or content creator updates an aspect of the document. In some implementations a condition may refer to an inventory condition such as e g running out of inventory of a certain product getting new inventory price change product change etc.

For example tagged data can include a predetermined tag name e.g. AwAd as illustrated in that indicates that the body of the tag include data for generating a new content item or updating an existing content item. The parameters in the tagged data can include content data such as content title description e.g. multiple rows display URL keywords adGroup and other content related information. The parameters can include tag identifiers e.g. and in whose values are specified in the body of HTML source code associated with the content provider s webpage. According to one embodiment entire content item texts including the price data possibly with keywords and or other data needed to build the content item are embedded on the content provider s webpage. The tags may not necessarily have to be embedded in the web page file e.g. HTML PHP or APSX . There can also be a reference to a different file where the tagged data resides. In that case a reference will be included in the content site that is tagged in a standardized way and has an attribute pointing to the file with the actual data.

In some implementations at step the method can include identifying a document reference tag and corresponding tagged data. For example upon crawling the document the method may parse text of the document to identify a document reference tag. In some implementations the method may compare text or other information of the document with standardized document reference tags to facilitate identifying document reference tags. For example the characters AWtag may indicate a document reference tag. In another example the method may parse all or a portion of the tagged data to determine whether the format corresponds to a standardized document reference tag format. Upon identifying a standardized document reference tag or an indication of a document reference tag the method can include identifying corresponding tagged data. For example the method may determine that a title description and other information associated with the content is based on the contents of the tagged data. The content data can comprise one or more of content group identification a display URL content text and one or more keywords. For example the method may identify the tag AwAd parameter title and data content Phone S2 Sale . The method may identify additional tagged data such as e.g. parameter row1 and corresponding data content Buy this phone now only parameter row2 and corresponding data content 499 unlocked parameter DisplayUrl and corresponding data content www.phoneswebsite.com PhoneS2 and parameter AdGroup and corresponding data content phones .

At step the method can include storing the document reference tag in association with the corresponding tagged data in a memory element. For example the document reference tag and tagged data may be stored in a memory storage database or other data repository associated with a content management server. In some implementations one or more component of the tagged data may be stored in a manner to facilitate content management. For example a tag name parameter and content data may be associated with each other. In another example a tag name and a plurality of corresponding parameters and content data may be associated with each other.

At step the method can include receiving a request for content to display. The request for content may be received from a web page. For example upon a user visiting a web page with one or more content slots the web page may send a request to a content server for content for the content slot. The request may include information to facilitate selecting and or providing content for display. For example the request may include information about the content slot e.g. position length width information about the web page for which the content request is being made e.g. keywords etc.

At step the method can include selecting an item of content. The item of content may include a content reference tag that corresponds to the identified at least one document reference tag of the document. The method may select the item of content from a plurality of content items stored in a content repository. For example if the identified document reference tag and corresponding tagged data includes the parameter name title the method may select a content that includes a tag for parameter title . Further to this example if the document reference tag includes the parameter name DisplayUrl the method may include selecting a content that includes a content reference tag with a parameter name DisplayUrl . In some implementations the method may include identifying a content that includes at least one content reference tag that corresponds to at least one document reference tag. In other implementations the method may include selecting a content where all the content references tags of the content correspond to document reference tags of the document e.g. selecting a content such that all the tags of the content can be replaced with content data from the document. In other implementations one or more content reference tag or corresponding parameter may be optional. For example if the parameter name row2 is optional then the content may be transmitted in response to a request even if the document does not include a document reference tag with a parameter name corresponding to row2 . In this example the row2 of the content may be left blank or it may be replaced with default content predetermined by the content provider or content management server.

At step the method can include retrieving from the memory element the corresponding tagged data associated with the document reference tag. Upon retrieving the corresponding tagged data the method may include replacing the content reference tag with the corresponding tagged data at step . In some implementations the method may include assembling an item of content responsive to the request for content. For example upon receiving a request for content to display on a web page the method may select a content item with content reference tags corresponding to at least one document reference tags and replace the content reference tags with content data corresponding to the document reference tags. In some implementations the method may include storing the assembled content in a content repository. In some implementations the method may include storing the assembled content with the replaced content data along with the content reference tags.

Upon assembling the content the method can transmit the assembled content for display at step . In some implementations the method may include transmitting the content to a web page application or computing device that sent the request.

The process includes receiving webpage data associated with a webpage. The webpage is associated with a content provider s website. The webpage data includes standardized tagged data as illustrated in A B e.g. tagged data and . The tagged data can include a content identification associated with a content item stored in the data storage of the content management system . In some embodiments the content identifier is not provided in the tagged data. In these embodiments a content item is identified based on information associated with the content provider associated with the webpage as well as data contained in the tagged data such as product name.

The tagged data further includes variable data. In some embodiments the tagged data can include a tag comprising a tag name and one or more parameters with each parameter including a parameter name and data content. For example a parameter for description e.g. a parameter name is T1 in a parameter for product price e.g. parameter name is T2 in and or a parameter indicating whether to stop serving the content to users can be included in the tagged data.

Content data is generated based on the variable data or tagged data in the received webpage data. A content item identified by the content identification in the tagged data is updated using the generated content data. In particular various attributes associated with the content item can be updated. The content attributes can include product description product price product availability and other types of product information.

The computing system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a liquid crystal display or active matrix display for displaying information to a user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . In another implementation the input device has a touch screen display . The input device can include a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to various implementations the processes described herein can be implemented by the computing system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the computing system to perform the illustrative processes described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to effect illustrative implementations. Thus implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although an example computing system has been described in implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in other types of digital electronic circuitry or in computer software embodied on a tangible medium firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software embodied on a tangible medium firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on one or more computer storage media for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices . Accordingly the computer storage medium is both tangible and non transitory.

The operations described in this specification can be performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus or computing device or processing circuit encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones a portion of a programmed processor or combinations of the foregoing The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations. Certain features described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

