---

title: Method and apparatus for the measurement of radio-frequency electric permittivity by a meander-line ring resonator
abstract: Methods and apparatus for measuring permittivity having a meander-line ring resonator, which may be disposed on a substrate proximate to and separated from an input coupler and an output coupler thereon, the resonator ring further including a continuous conductive material having at least two turns to form a single congruent pattern, symmetrical along at least one axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09151787&OS=09151787&RS=09151787
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09151787
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 586 160 filed Jan. 13 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a method and apparatus to measure the electromagnetic properties of materials. Specifically the use of a radio frequency RF meander line ring resonator to measure the permittivity of a material.

It is critical that military personnel timely identify enemy objects and combatants and even more so as modern warfare occurs more frequently in urban areas. The urban environment presents situations where it becomes increasingly necessary to identify objects hidden behind walls and underfoot. In recent years ground penetrating radar GPR has been crucial in the identification of subterranean objects such as improvised explosive devices IEDs .

In order for the aforementioned radar to operate properly modeling of the radar environment needs to accurately represent the materials encountered in theater. Electromagnetic properties of materials in the environment determine the depth at which objects can be detected by the radar. One such property is permittivity which indicates the transmission reflection and absorption of EM radiation by a dielectric material. Since permittivity is an intrinsic material property that depends on temperature and water content the for sand soil and vegetation varies by location and time of day. Thus to accurately model the behavior of radar pulses in a test environment permittivity must be measured as near to the radar test area as possible.

Several techniques exist for measuring the permittivity of dielectric samples. At radio frequencies RF two popular techniques are reflectometry and scatterometry. Reflectometry disadvantageously requires disturbing the sample by inserting probes. Also a reflectometer such as a pulse generator and oscilloscope must be brought to the radar experiment site. Scatterometry disadvantageously requires that the measurement must be taken in the far field at a distance of at least several wavelengths from the sample. At this far field distance the sample must be several wavelengths in length and width for the measurement to be valid. An alternative method is to use ring resonators which requires that a scalar network analyzer or equivalent circuit and a microstrip ring are brought to the experiment site. The ring resonator measurement can be taken without disturbing the dielectric sample.

Given that the test sample must be flush against the ring surface it is increasingly difficult to ensure a flush fit at relatively low e.g. below GHz frequencies as the corresponding area of the ring and sample size increases. Thus a traditional circular ring resonator is impractical for measuring permittivity below 1 GHz as the ring becomes prohibitively large e.g. several feet across . These lower frequencies are used by GPR though because they offer deeper ground penetration using relatively low transmit power. Since accurate radar modeling must account for frequencies under 1 GHz the permittivity of materials in the radar environment must be measured at such frequencies thus improved techniques are needed to measure permittivity.

A portable system may be useful to measure permittivity quickly in the field with minimal disturbance of the dielectric sample at ground penetrating frequencies.

A method system and apparatus for a meander line ring resonator are described herein. Specifically the meander line ring resonator for measuring permittivity comprises a meander line ring which may be disposed on a substrate proximate to and separated from input and output couplers thereon the resonator further including a continuous conductive material on the substrate with at least two turns forming a single congruent pattern symmetrical along at least one axis.

In some embodiments an apparatus for the meander line ring resonator includes electronics for detecting the permittivity of responses from an electric field applied to a dielectric sample. Other and further embodiments of the present invention are described below.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. The figures are not drawn to scale and may be simplified for clarity. It is contemplated that elements and features of one embodiment may be beneficially incorporated in other embodiments without further recitation.

Embodiments of the present invention relates to a meander line ring resonator. One embodiment of the meander line ring resonator measures permittivity of a dielectric sample such as soil. Profiling of moist soils and sands most notably aids in the design and implementation of ground penetrating radar. However sampling dielectric materials may aid in the design of other radar applications.

The meander line ring resonator includes a series of turns i.e. at least two in the meander line ring to reduce the overall area occupied on the substrate by the ring while maintaining the same continuous length of the ring. The turns of the ring are congruent in at least one axis such that there is efficient resonance of the fields across the ring structure from one end to another. The at least one axis may be defined between the at least two turns such as for example an axis coincident with input and output lines of input and output couplers to the ring. By contrast the traditional ring resonator might be thought of as being substantially circular having only one continuous turn. Further embodiments may include elongated couplers conforming to a percentage of the shape of the ring at either side of the ring that facilitate coupling and decreases transmission loss.

The couplers and are arcuate to conform to the resonating structure of the ring . As will be discussed below further embodiments may include couplers that are conformal to resonators that are not of a circular ring shape. The conformal embodiments will have couplers greater in size than the connected feed lines and such that the length is a substantial percentage of the resonator ring shape.

Capacitive coupling is enhanced by adding elongated couplers and to the ends of the input line and output line closest to the resonating ring . In the illustrated embodiment the couplers and form shapes similar to the edges of the resonating element and in this example the couplers and are arcs of substantially the same width arrow as the resonating ring . The arc length of the couplers and may be expressed as a percentage of the inner diameter of the ring . For impedance matching input and output lines and couplers and to the ring have substantially the same thickness arrow . In other embodiments the thickness and or width of the ring may be different from the thickness and or width of the couplers and .

The resonating ring comprises a conductive material with a continuous inner radius r shown as and a continuous outer radius r shown as on an exemplary Rogers 4350B substrate with a height h shown as . Insertion loss from input line to the ring and to output line is reduced by decreasing the spatial separation of the coupling gaps arrows and while increasing the size the input and output couplers and . Excessive loss for a ring resonator will cause the input output characteristic to fall below the noise floor of the network analyzer and the resonant peak will be lost. Coupling gaps arrows and have been exaggeratedly separated from the ring to facilitate understanding.

To determine microstrip dimensions necessary to form an exemplary 50 line that resonates at the desired frequency f the following relationships are used 

where is the substrate permittivity w shown as is the microstrip line width Zis chosen to be 50 c is the speed of light and n is the order of the resonance whose lowest value to achieve the lowest resonant frequency for a particular ring is 1. The guided wavelength of the RF in the microstrip at a particular desired frequency fis determined by Equation 7 . Equations 8 11 disclose the results from an exemplary desired design frequency of 900 MHz where ris the average radius and s is the input output feed line length of one quarter wavelength. The arc angle may also be calculated. Thinning the coupling gaps and before the feed line ring separation increases capacitive coupling.

Since a lower frequency is proportionally related to the conductive path length of the ring turns are added to lower the frequency of the resonance. Turns are herein defined as part of the meandering ring are acute bending serpentine portions in the single continuous conductive strip comprising the resonating element . Compared to a circular ring of the same resonant frequency the path length of the microstrip ring after adding turns to meander the line is the same as before adding the turns but the area enclosed by the ring after adding turns is smaller. In the meander line ring resonator the substrate area occupied is reduced by a factor given by

In Equation 12 F is the ratio of the area of the circular ring A divided by the area of the meander line ring A. Ais calculated with the traditional formula for the area of a circle r and Ais calculated by multiplying the approximate length and width occupied by the turns of the meandering line. While the depth of the dielectric sample required for measurement remains unchanged the area of the sample that contacts the resonator is reduced by F such that the volume of the sample required for a valid measurement is also reduced by F.

The exemplary embodiment further employs aforementioned reduced coupling gap widths and along with widened feed line curved arched shapes and for decreased insertion loss. The enlarged shapes as discussed above provide decreased insertion loss. Ultimately a low resonance frequency is achieved across a smaller substrate area not previously thought possible.

The overall length of the meander line is given by Equation 13 above found by substituting the value of equation 14 above. In another embodiment if the turn radius is set equal to the line width w shown as and the separation w shown as is set to twice this width the total path length that of Equations 15 and 16 .

In an exemplary embodiment using parameters from Equations 1 6 comprising a Rogers 4350B substrate Zis 50 and w is 1.11 mm. At f 900 MHz ris 3.14 cm and the area encompassed by a traditional circular resonator not shown at f 900 MHz is determined to be 3.14 cm 30.9 cm 18 By meandering the line of a traditional resonator with N 10 turns yields 

The power divider RF coupler couples the RF signal to the analog to digital converter ND where the RF signal is digitized. The digitized signal is coupled to the CPU for calculating permittivity of the sample . The power divider RF coupler also couples the RF signal as an input to the ring resonator . The ring resonator comprising the meandering structure and or the aforementioned reduced insertion loss coupler structure. The resonator produces a near field and more specifically an electric field physically close to the resonator ring and substrate not shown . The sample modifies the electric field of the meander line ring resonator to produce an altered output signal . The output signal is coupled to an ND converter for converting the analog RF signal to a digital representation of the signal. The digitized signal is coupled to the portable computer for calculating a signal change through a measurement module . The digitized input and output signals and the comparison results may be stored in memory . Embodiments of the present invention thus present a compact mobile means for permittivity measurement and further embodiments are able to measure solids as well as viscous liquids.

At step the method compares the frequency responses from steps and . If no difference is found the method ends at step indicating there is no sample present or the sample is otherwise not determinable. Should a difference be found at the comparison step the method accesses a look up table LUT comprised of known frequency responses and at step compares the present sample with the LUT values. If the sample difference is not found in the table the method ends at step to indicate to the user a need to manually identify the sample. If the difference is found in the LUT at step the permittivity of the sample is determined and the method ends at step where the method outputs to the user a specific profile for the intended operating environment of the radar. The method of can thus provide in situation or immediate field sampling and permittivity values with the compact meander line ring resonator.

Other embodiments of the present invention include applying the reduced insertion loss structure and or meander line structure of the resonator in other traditional RF communications circuitry. Meander line geometries may be applied in circuits where frequencies lower than 1 GHz are necessary to be used while minimizing occupied space on the substrate.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

