---

title: High efficiency light absorbing and light emitting nanostructures
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods using multi-shelled nanostructures can be used in a variety of applications. In various embodiments, a multi-shelled nanostructure can include one or more light-absorbing and light-emitting cores enclosed by a number of nanoshells. For a multi-shelled nanostructure having multiple conductive nanoshells, the nanoshells are separated from each other by a dielectric. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09267889&OS=09267889&RS=09267889
owner: STC.UNM
number: 09267889
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121012
---
This application claims priority and the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 546 326 filed 12 Oct. 2011 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. USAF AFOSR FA9550 09 1 0202 and Grant No. USAF AFOSR FA9550 10 1 0252. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to higher efficiency light absorbing and light emitting nanostructures and their applications.

High efficiency light absorbing and emitting nanostructures are critically needed for a large range of opto electronic devices and systems applications ranging from solar cells and simple detectors to advanced light emitter based applications including those based on multiphoton light absorption. As a case in point two photon absorption induced fluorescence TPAF has been demonstrated as a powerful nonlinear optical phenomenon for several bio imaging applications particularly for deep tissue imaging and for photodynamic therapy. In photodynamic therapy the photon generated by two photon upconversion is used to generate cytotoxic reactive oxygen species ROS in cancer tissue. Focusing intense near infrared radiation NIR in cancer tissue that is relatively transparent to the NIR whose wavelength is in the tissue optical transparency window of 600 1300 nm can result in deep tissue penetration followed by selective destruction of malignant cells via efficient TPAF induced ROS generation. Additional targeting of specific tissue can also be achieved by functionalizing the TPAF nanoparticles with biomolecules to cause increased accumulation in the target tissue both for photodynamic therapy and for imaging applications.

Modeling of nanostructures can include analysis using the permittivities of materials assumed to be part of the nanostructures being modeled. In such modeling the bulk dielectric constants of the materials may be typically used. However there are some recent experimental efforts at measuring the permittivity of ultra thin layers of noble metals. In two articles the measured permittivity for gold films from 2 10 nm thick on a silica substrate was reported. In an article the use of picometrology was reported with measurements at 532 nm and 488 nm wavelengths which are not useful for TPAF in most tissues. The use of ellipsometry to determine the complex relative dielectric constant for wavelengths from 280 nm to 1.7 m has been reported. For 800 nm the results of measurements of the real relative dielectric constant in the range 20 17 and imaginary relative dielectric constant in the range 2 30 for gold thicknesses from 3 10 nm have been reported. See for example M. Hovel B. Gompf and M. Dressel Dielectric properties of ultrathin metal films around the percolation threshold Phys. Rev. B 81 035402 2010 and X. Wang K. Chen M. Zhao and D. D. Nolte Refractive index and dielectric constant transition of ultra thin gold from cluster to film Opt. Express 18 2485924867 2010 .

There has been a long standing need for high brightness nonphotobleaching and nontoxic TPAF fluorophores for numerous medical research and clinical applications. During the last decade semiconductor quantum dots QDs have attracted significant attention as TPAF nanoparticle labels due to their significant advantages over other fluorophores which include a broad absorption spectra and readily tunable emission options b high quantum yields c relatively high photochemical stability and d relatively large two photon absorption cross sections. Unfortunately QDs frequently contain toxic elements such as cadmium which limits their use for in vivo clinical applications.

Studies of related subject matter have been reported in a number of articles. These articles include 

1. D. R. Larson W. R. Zipfel R. M. Williams S. W. Clark M. P. Bruchez F. W. Wise and W. W. Webb Water Soluble quantum dots for multiphoton fluorescence imaging in vivo Science 300 1434 1436 2003 .

2. E. Yaghini A. M. Seifalian and A. J. MacRobert Quantum dots and their potential biomedical applications in photosensitization for photodynamic therapy Nanomedicine 4 353 363 2009 .

3. L. Wang D. Ankuciwiez J. Chen and R. K. Jain Enhancement of Two Photon Absorption Induced florescence in semiconductor quantum dots by gold nanoparticles in Nonlinear Optics Materials Fundamentals and Applications Optical Society of America 2009 p. NME4.

4. R. K. Jain Advanced plasmonic devices for optoelectronic and integrated plasmon optic circuit applications proposal submitted to AFOSR University of New Mexico reference number UNM 235 1099 2009 .

5. L. Wang Nonlinear optics in quantum confined and surface plasmon structures Dissertation May 2010 Univ. of New Mexico https repository.umn.edu handle 1928 10916 2010 . Electrical and Computer Engineering.

6. M. Kerker and C. G. Blatchford Elastic scattering absorption and surface enhanced raman scattering by concentric spheres comprised of a metallic and a dielectric region Physical Review B 26 4052 1982 .

7. R. D. Averitt D. Sarkar and N. J. Halas Plasmon resonance shifts of Au Coated Au 2S nanoshells Insight into multicomponent nanoparticle growth Physical Review Letters 78 4217 1997 .

8. S. J. Oldenburg S. L. Westcott R. D. Averitt and N. J. Halas Surface enhanced raman scattering in the near infrared using metal nanoshell substrates The Journal of Chemical Physics 111 4729 1999 .

9. J. Enderlein Spectral properties of a fluorescing molecule within a spherical metallic nanocavity Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 4 no. 12 5 2780 2786 2002 .

10. D. O Neal L. R. Hirsch N. J. Halas J. Payne and J. L. West Photo thermal tumor ablation in mice using near infrared absorbing nanoparticles Cancer Letters 209 171 176 2004 .

11. J. B. Jackson S. L. Westcott L. R. Hirsch J. L. West and N. J. Halas Controlling the surface enhanced raman effect via the nanoshell geometry Applied Physics Letters 82 257 2003 .

12. E. Prodan C. Radloff N. J. Halas and P. Nordlander A hybridization model for the plasmon response of complex nanostructures Science 302 419 422 2003 .

13. H. Xu Multilayered metal core shell nanostructures for inducing a large and tunable local optical field Physical Review B 72 073405 2005 .

14. X. Xia Y. Liu V. Backman and G. A. Ameer Engineering sub 100 nm multi layer nanoshells Nanotechnology 17 5435 5440 2006 .

15. A. K Kodali X. Llora and R. Bhargava Optimally designed nanolayered metal dielectric particles as probes for massively multiplexed and ultrasensitive molecular assays Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2010 .

16. M. R. Rasch K. V. Sokolov and B. A. Korgel Limitations on the optical tunability of small diameter gold nanoshells Langmuir 25 11777 11785 2009 .

18. X. Miao I. Brener and T. S. Luk Nanocomposite plasmonic fluorescence emitters with core shell configurations Journal of the Optical Society of America B Optical Physics 27 1561 1570 2010 .

19. J. Liaw and C. Liu Plasmonic effect of nanoshelled nanocavity on encapsulated emitter s spontaneous emission Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer 112 2480 2485 2011 

20. S. J. Norton and T. Vo Dinh Plasmonics quenching and enhancement of a fluorescing molecule outside and inside a silver metallic nanoshell IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology 2011 .

21. E. L. Ru and P. Etchegoin Principles of Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy and related plasmonic effects Elsevier Science 2008 1st ed.

22. M. Hovel B. Gompf and M. Dressel Dielectric properties of ultrathin metal films around the percolation threshold Phys. Rev. B 81 035402 2010 .

23. X. Wang K. Chen M. Zhao and D. D. Nolte Refractive index and dielectric constant transition of ultra thin gold from cluster to film Opt. Express 18 2485924867 2010 .

24. A. E. Neeves and M. H. Birnboim Composite structures for the enhancement of nonlinear optical susceptibility Journal of the Optical Society of America B 6 787 796 1989 .

25. R. Koole M. M. van Schooneveld J. Hilhorst C. de Mello Doneg D. C. t Hart A. van Blaaderen D. Vanmaekelbergh and A. Meijerink On the incorporation mechanism of hydrophobic quantum dots in silica spheres by a reverse microemulsion method Chemistry of Materials 20 2503 2512 2008 .

26. J. Kim W. W. Bryan and T. R. Lee Preparation characterization and optical properties of gold silver and Gold Silver alloy nanoshells having silica cores Langmuir 24 11147 11152 2008 .

27. A. Moroz Electron mean free path in a spherical shell geometry The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 112 10641 10652 2008 .

28. G. Raschke S. Brogl A. S. Susha A. L. Rogach T. A. Klar J. Feldmann B. Fieres N. Petkov T. Bein A. Nichtl and K. Krzinger Gold nanoshells improve single nanoparticle molecular sensors Nano Letters 4 1853 1857 2004 .

29. W. A. Kraus and G. C. Schatz Plasmon resonance broadening in small metal particles The Journal of Chemical Physics 79 6130 1983 .

30. Zu De Qi et al Biocompatible CdSe quantum dot based photosensitizer under two photon excitation for photodynamic therapy J. Mater. Chem. 2011 21 2455 2458

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration and not limitation various example embodiments of the invention. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice these and other embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made to these embodiments. The various embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In various embodiments nanoparticle based absorbers and fluorophores can be provided for numerous high efficiency absorber and emitter device applications. Emitter device applications can include the use of TPAF in such nanoparticles for medical applications such as deep tissue imaging and deep tissue photodynamic therapy PDT . For example plasmonic quantum dot nanoparticle assemblies can be used for such applications. The design of optimized nanostructures can be realized that result in enhancement of fluorescence signal intensity and corresponding increases in PDT efficacies by greater than a factor of 160 000 compared to those obtainable under comparable illumination conditions from the same fluorescent labels used without plasmonic enhancement. These fluorescent labels can include quantum dots or other light absorbing and light emitting structures.

In various embodiments structures which can provide for brighter nonlinear fluorophores can include the use of plasmonic QDs namely QDs surrounded by one or more layers of insulators and metallic noble metal shells. Such structures can reduce toxicity. Using Mie theory it can be shown analytically that significantly large field enhancements can be obtained especially with multi shell dielectric noble metal nanoparticle structures. These enhancements can be obtained using dielectrics with high permittivity leading to TPAF signal enhancements of over 160 000. Designs for such structures may be based on an estimate of optimized dimensions for several multi shell structures. As can analytically be shown an improved field enhancement for multi shell metal dielectric nanoparticles with QD core using a dielectric with higher permittivity compared to SiOdielectric can be realized. The QD at the core of the nanostructures may decrease the field enhancement compared to the dielectric core without a QD at the core.

In various embodiments light emitters comprise one or more light absorbing and light emitting cores enclosed in an appropriate conductive nanoshell with an appropriate dielectric layer between the light absorbing and light emitting cores and the conductive nanoshell to minimize nonradiative decay and optimize plasmonic resonant enhancement. These emitters can be provided as high brightness sources for a variety of applications. The conductive nanoshell may provide a single concentric structure as shown schematically in . The one or more light absorbing and light emitting cores may comprise but are not limited to one or more QDs The conductive nanoshell can be a metallic conductive shell for example but not limited to an appropriate gold nanoshell or an appropriate silver nanoshell. A model for use may assume nanoparticles NPs that contain a single semiconductor quantum dot core a single dielectric nanoshell layer and a single noble metal nanoshell layer with these nanoparticles surrounded by water aqueous tissue as is ubiquitous in bio imaging applications.

Vector spherical harmonics VSH can be used in a methodology to compute fields and electric field enhancements EFE for analysis of the EFE in multilayered nanostructures. The methodology can be applied to Mie scattering calculations. The layer number is denoted by l where the first layer is the core and the largest layer number denotes the surrounding media. The electric and magnetic fields in each layer l can be expressed as sums of vector spherical harmonics as follows 

Integrating over the surface of a sphere leads to the following 0 0 m m n n and 0 m m n n Define k k and . Applying the above orthogonality relations to the continuity of the tangential electric and magnetic fields at each interface between layers the following is obtained 1 2 3 4 where ris the radius at the interface between layer l and layer l 1.

For the core region l 1 the electric and magnetic fields must be finite at the origin therefore 0. The coefficients of the spherical harmonics for the incident plane wave Ein the surrounding media are given by 0 0 1 square root over 2n 1 

There are two unknown coefficients at the core two unknown coefficients in the outer media for the scattered field and 4 unknown coefficients in each shell. Each interface between layers gives the four equations 1 4 . These coefficients can be used to calculate E x for any point x in layer l. The EFE is given by the ratio E x E .

Even though the analysis can be generalized to any semiconductor quantum dot material and size consider TPA excitation of a 6 nm CdSe QD whose fluorescence peak occurs at a wavelength of approximately 600 nm and whose optimum excitation wavelengths for TPA excitation lie in the 800 nm to 950 nm range. The approach above has ignored modifications to the bulk dielectric constants of noble metals as nanoshells caused by size dependent and mean free path effects in the ultrathin shell thicknesses invoked in many of Mie scattering calculations and modifications in these dielectric constants due to limitations in fabrication of smooth and continuous ultrathin noble metal films.

The EFE for various dielectric permittivities and minimum bounds on layer thickness was investigated in which it can be seen that the maximum EFE increases with minimum shell thickness. The maximum EFE for each permittivity and thickness bound was obtained using a gradient ascent search method and thus there is no guarantee that a global maximum was found. Excitation wavelengths of 800 nm and 950 nm are plotted since both are in the tissue optical window which allows observation of trends in EFE with wavelength. show plots for both gold and silver layers in the structure of .

From these plots in and the combined plot in it is apparent that silver has increased EFE compared to gold and that excitation at 800 nm has higher EFE than at 950 nm. In addition EFE increases with smaller thickness bounds but does not increase monotonically with permittivity as seen in .

To understand why the EFE doesn t increase monotonically with dielectric permittivity consider the quasistatic approximation expression for a dielectric core metal shell structure in a water medium using Composite structures for the enhancement of nonlinear optical susceptibility A. E. Neeves and M. H. Birnboim Journal of the Optical Society of America B 6 787 796 1989 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The following is an expression for the electric field intensity in the core 

In order to determine the effect of the quantum dot on the EFE a comparison of a structure without a QD core with respect to a structure with a QD core was made. The structure without a QD core labeled SA was a silica shell Au shell structure similar to without the QD core where the center of the silica shell is the effective silica core. The structure with a QD core labeled QSA was a OD silica shell Au shell structure. First it was determined that the maximum field enhancement decreases with silica shell core radius for SA structures. Secondly it it was determined that the field enhancement in a QSA structure has decreased field enhancement in the QD compared to the field enhancement at the center of a SA nanoparticle. These structures were analyzed for an excitation wavelength of 800 nm.

The article Enhancement of Two Photon Absorption Induced florescence in semiconductor quantum dots by gold nanoparticles L. Wang a Ankuciwiez J. Chen and R. K. Jain in Nonlinear Optics Materials Fundamentals and Applications Optical Society of America 2009 p. NME4 discussed measurements providing a improvement in TPAF of QDs in proximity to gold nanoparticles. In the dissertation of L. Wang Nonlinear optics in quantum confined and surface plasmon structures Dissertation May 2010 Univ. of New Mexico https repository.unm.edu handle 1928 10916 2010 theoretical field enhancement of 50 for 800 nm excitation in a core shell structure was demonstrated. The dissertation also included calculated field enhancements of approximately 50 to 100 at various wavelengths for a gold shell of 5 nm thickness surrounding a SiOcore of 15 nm radius using finite integration techniques. Theoretical field enhancements for SiO2 core Au shell nanoparticles using a quasistatic model with a size dependent loss in the ultrathin Au nanoshell have recently been shown in Nanocomposite plasmonic fluorescence emitters with core shell configurations X. Miao I. Brener and T. S. Luk Journal of the Optical Society of America B Optical Physics 27 1561 1570 2010 . This modeling shows reduced field enhancement for thinner gold shells due to decreased electron mean free path and thus increased loss in the gold but the enhancement increases to the bulk quasistatic model value for larger shell thicknesses. For thicker shells the gold has the bulk dielectric constant and the enhancement is only dependent on the ratio of core radius to outer radius according to the quasistatic approximation. The lack of attenuation for thicker shells does not seem physically plausible. VSH analysis was used for a SiO2 Ag SA structure in the article Spectral properties of a fluorescing molecule within a spherical metallic nanocavity J. Enderlein Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 4 no. 12 5 2780 2786 2002 which showed maximum enhancement on the order of 17 450 nm wavelength for a single shell thickness of 5 nm in a plot of wavelengths vs. core radii. Neither the effect of gold shell thickness on EFE dielectric layer permittivity effect on EFE multiple metal shells effect on EFE nor the effect of a QD at the center of the structure were considered in this article.

In the article Plasmonic effect of nanoshelled nanocavity on encapsulated emitter s spontaneous emission J. Liaw and C. Liu Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer 112 2480 2485 2011 an analysis included averaging the fluorescence enhancement over all positions and orientations of a dipole in the silica core having a gold or silver nanoshell. In the article increased enhancement factors for thinner shells were noted and a determination of the radiation efficiency factor REF was presented. This REF included the effect of the nanoshell on the far field radiation of the dipole as well as the EFE and is the ratio of far field fluorescent radiation intensity of the dipole fluorophore in a nanoshell to the fluorophore without a nanoshell. In the article an analysis of a silica core with a silver or gold nanoshell was presented for two shell thicknesses 5 and 10 nm and a maximum REF of 120 was obtained for a wavelength of 775 nm a 40 nm radius silica core and a 5 nm thick silver nanoshell. Since REF is a ratio of intensities this corresponds to an EFE of approximately 11. The maximum REF for gold at a wavelength of 820 nm was 40 for a 40 nm radius silica core and 5 nm thick nanoshell. The REF of 40 corresponds to an EFE of approximately 6.3.

In the article Plasmonics quenching and enhancement of a fluorescing molecule outside and inside a silver metallic nanoshell S. J. Norton and T. Vo Dinh IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology 2011 an analysis of the fluorescence enhancement for a radially oriented dipole at various radii inside and outside a silver nanoshell with free space core and surrounding media was provided. The maximum EFE obtained was 5.5 for an inner radius of 45 nm and an outer radius of 50 nm at a 600 nm excitation wavelength. This low value compared to analysis associated with embodiments taught herein may be due to the free space permittivity of the core the size dependent silver permittivity which has increased loss and the limited range of core radii and shell thicknesses considered. In various embodiments structures may be provided that maximize the EFE for a nanoshelled structure over a wide range of metal nanoshell thicknesses variations in the dielectric layer permittivity and with a QD at the center.

In the article Multilayered metal core shell nanostructures for inducing a large and tunable local optical field H. Xu Physical Review B 72 073405 2005 an analysis was presented that used Mie theory to analyze alternating silica silver shelled structures in a vacuum media with a silver core. A calculation was presented that included a 1.2 10intensity enhancement in the 1 nm thick innermost silica shell for a structure with a silver core and 4 alternating silica silver shells in a vacuum media. The 1 nm silica layer may be too thin for a quantum dot and may result in significant quenching of the fluorophore due to its proximity to the metal layers. In addition it may be difficult to fabricate reliably. In various embodiments structures may provide improved EFE in an alternate multilayered structure.

In the article Optimally designed nanolayered metal dielectric particles as probes for massively multiplexed and ultrasensitive molecular assays A. K. Kodali X. Llora and R. Bhargava Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2010 a discussion was presented regarding an analysis that optimizes field enhancement in multiple dielectric metal layers. The discussion included designed optimal alternating silver silica multi shelled nanoparticles with silver cores that were optimized for field enhancement inside the inner dielectric layer. Reporter molecules in this dielectric have enhanced surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS spectra to facilitate detection of the nanoparticle. The article presented calculation of a net enhancement factor of 1 10for alternating nanoparticles with 5 metal layers which corresponds to a 1 10EFE. However it is not clear how the minimum layer thickness is constrained in the optimization presented. As previously noted without such a constraint the field enhancement increases for smaller layer thicknesses.

A concentric shell plasmonic QD can include a QD core encased by a dielectric shell that is encased by a metal nanoshell as shown in . The band edge electron mean free path in gold is 57 nm which can he much greater than the thickness of a gold nanoshell. Some electrons may oscillate freely along with an external oscillating electric field. Strong resonant enhancements of the electric field can occur. These resonant enhancements depend on the shell diameter thickness and excitation wavelength. shows excitation as a function of wavelength for a gold nanoshell and a gold hollow nanobox. The resonance in a gold nanoshell is shown for an outer radius r 10 nm and an inner radius r 8.8 nm. The resonance in a gold hollow nanobox is shown for an edge length 20 nm and a wall thickness 1.2 nm.

It is also noted that double shelled QD TiO Au TiO Au nanoparticles may lead to an estimated TPAF greater than 160 000 relative to the same QD. However increased losses estimated from the measured permittivity of ultrathin gold films less than 7 nm thick may result in greatly reduced EFE for QD SiO Au. nanoparticles. Estimation and comparison of the fluorescent quantum yield of various fluorophore and nanostructure configurations may be provided by examining the effects of advanced nanostructures on the emission of fluorophores in the far field.

In the article Plasmonic fluorescent quantum dots Y. Jin and X. Gao Nat Nano 4 571 576 2009 the synthesis of a QD core in a 3 5 nm thick polymer shell in a 2 3 nm gold shell was reported. A quantum yield of 39 was measured. The quantum yield can be improved by changing the polymer and gold shell thicknesses and conducting a synthesis of thin shells corresponding to the greatest EFE obtained in the models presented herein as seen in .

The article On the incorporation mechanism of hydrophobic quantum dots in silica spheres by a reverse microemulsion method R. Kook M M. van Schooneveld J. Hilhorst C. de Mello Doneg D. C. t Hart A. van Blaaderen D. Vanmaekelbergh and A. Meijerink Chemistry of Materials 20 2503 2512 2008 is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In this article a method was presented that uses reverse microemulsion where a QD tetraethylorthosilicate and ammonia localize to reverse micelles resulting in the growth of a silica layer on the QD. The article Preparation characterization and optical properties of gold silver and Gold Silver alloy nanoshells having silica cores J. Kim W. W. Bryan and T. R. Lee Langmuir 24 11147 11152. 2008 is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In this article a method was presented that grows a gold nanoshell on silica nanoparticles by first attaching gold nanoparticles to the surface of the silica using aminopropyltrimethoxysilane. The gold nanoparticles are subsequently used to nucleate the growth of a complete gold shell.

In an embodiment a multi shelled nanostructure may be fabricated by using reverse microemulsion to grow a dielectric layer on a QD followed by attaching conductive nanoparticles to the formed dielectric layer and using the attached nanoparticles to nucleate the growth of a complete conductive shell on the dielectric layer. Repeated formation of a dielectric layer followed by attaching conductive nanoparticles to the formed dielectric layer to nucleate a complete subsequent conductive shell on a subsequent dielectric layer can result in a multi shelled nanostructure with any number of dielectric shells followed by conductive shells. For example reverse microemulsion can be used to grow a silica layer on a QD.

Though bulk dielectric constants of gold and silver have been used in example modeling herein permittivity of ultra thin layers of noble metals may be appropriate. It is noted that the size dependent dielectric of gold film thicknesses reported in an article has an increased imaginary component which would result in increased loss and reduced EFE. The gold films in this study were discontinuous at a thickness of 3 nm so additional experiments may be needed to determine how different fabrication methods affect permittivity. In an article a review of previously proposed surface scattering based estimates of the changes in metal permittivity due to size dependent modification to the electron mean free path was presented. The analysis in the article demonstrated that among these models the billiard or Lambertian scattering models are most consistent with the experimental results reported in another article and these models also fit the mean free path obtained from the quantum mechanical analysis by other researchers.

For photodynamic therapy the energy from two photon absorption in the QD must be nonradiatively transferred to a photosensitizing molecule on the surface of the NP. The efficiency of this nonradiative energy transfer along with the radiation efficiency from the QD to the far field for estimating the fluorescence efficiency may be the subject of a subsequent publication.

In an example with shells fabricated with a dielectric constant close to that of bulk gold then a 100 nm radius of a MSN as discussed herein may enable a TPAF signal enhancement of greater than 160 000. The shells around the QD core may also result in reduced toxicity allowing these nanoparticles to be used for biomedical applications such deep tissue imaging. In an example the minimum shell thickness in the MSN can be 6 nm. Smaller core and thinner shell nanoparticles may lead to larger TPAF signal enhancements.

The nanosized structures can be realized in different structural formats. The nanosized structures can be generally spherical e.g. nanoparticle or cylindrical e.g. nanowire in shape with the light absorbing and light emitting core s located generally at the center of the nanoparticle or nanowire. The number of concentric nested nanoshells is unlimited in principle but in practice typically ranges from 1 to 10 nanoshells and most typically from 2 to 4 nanoshells. The total outer diameter of the nanoparticle or nanowire can range from 10 nm to 900 nm typically ranging from 20 nm to 100 nm.

Light absorbing and light emitting cores . . . N can include but are not limited to organic luminophores fluorophores non toxic fluorophores semiconductor quantum dots SQDs or combinations thereof. The organic luminophores can include fluorescent dyes such as Rhodamine 6G. The SQDs can include but are not limited to CdSe CdS CdTe InAr InP CuS CuSe GeTe PbSe CdSeS or combinations thereof. The diameter of a light absorbing and light emitting core such as a QD can range from 0.1 nm to 100 nm typically ranging from 5 to 20 nm.

Dielectrics . . . M can include but are not limited to a low loss high index dielectric material silica SiO titania TiO alumina AlO ZnS SiN GaN or combinations thereof Selected ones of dielectrics . . . M can be composed of different materials from selected other ones of dielectrics . . . M. The thickness of a dielectric insulating layer can range from 1 nm to 300 nm typically ranging from 5 to 30 nm. One or more of dielectrics . . . M can be solid or porous.

Conductive nanoshells . . . M can include but are not limited to a metallic layer a plasmonic noble metal Au Ag Pt a binary alloy of Au and Ag or combinations thereof. Selected ones of conductive nanoshells . . . M can be composed of different materials from selected other ones of conductive nanoshells . . . M. The thickness of a conductive nanoshell can range from 1 nm to 100 nm range from 1 to 30 nm or range from 1 to 10 nm. One or more of conductive nanoshells . . . M can be continuous or discontinuous textured patterned filagreed or have holes through the thickness.

Detection device can include imaging components. Such components can include fitters to separate light generated by the multi shelled nanostructures in response to excitation light from an appropriate excitation source from light from the appropriate excitation source reflected from entity and the multi shelled nanostructures. In addition filters can be used to separate a number of signals that are generated by the multi shelled nanostructures or the multi shelled nanostructures in combination with other elements for measuring characteristics of entity . Detection device can include data collection equipment such as imaging camera or various types of spectrographic equipment.

System can include a controller a memory an electronic apparatus and a communications unit . Controller memory and communications unit can be arranged to operate as a processing unit to control management of data collection unit and analysis of data collected by data collection unit and to perform operations on data signals used to control excitation source to excite the entity the associated multi shelled nanostructures or both the entity and the associated multi shelled nanostructures. An analysis unit can be distributed among the components of system including electronic apparatus . Alternatively system can include an analysis unit to manage the analysis of data collected. Analysis unit may also include one or more machine readable memory devices.

System can also include a bus where bus provides electrical conductivity among the components of system . Bus can include an address bus a data bus and a control bus each may be independently configured. Bus can be realized using a number of different communication mediums that allows for the distribution of components of system Use of bus can be regulated by controller .

In various embodiments peripheral devices can include displays additional storage memory and or other control devices that may operate in conjunction with controller and or memory . In an embodiment controller can be realized as a processor or a group of processors that may operate independently depending on an assigned function. Peripheral devices can include a display which may be arranged as a distributed component that can be used with instructions stored in memory to implement a user interface to manage the operation of data collection unit analysis unit and or components distributed within system . Such a user interface can be operated in conjunction with communications unit and bus .

At light radiating from the excited multi shelled nanostructure s is collected. The light is different from the excitation of the entity and the associated multi shelled nanostructure s . At the collected light can be analyzed using a processing unit to determine characteristic of the entity from the analyzed collected light. Analyzing the collected light can include deep tissue imaging of a biological entity.

In various embodiments a method using multi shelled nanostructures can include functionalizing the multi shelled nanostructures with biomolecules to generate cytotoxic reactive oxygen species in a biological entity by two photon absorption induced fluorescence. Exciting the multi shelled nanostructures can be conducted at a wavelength and intensity to cause increased accumulation of cytotoxic reactive oxygen species in target tissue of the biological entity. Exciting the multi shelled nanostructures can be conducted at a wavelength and intensity to cause selective destruction of malignant cells in target tissue of the biological entity.

Multi shelled nanostructures structured in a similar or identical arrangement as taught herein can be used in a variety of applications. These multi shelled nanostructures can be excited by electromagnetic radiation for analysis and or as a modifying tool. The excitation can be conducted at a wavelength in a range from about 600 nm to about 1300 nm. Other wavelengths may be used. Exciting the multi shelled nanostructures by electromagnetic radiation can be conducted at a wavelength selected for a given application. In addition choice of one or more light absorbing and light emitting cores in the fabrication of the multi shelled nanostructures can be made for operation based the selected wavelength. The one or more light absorbing and light emitting cores can be selected from a number of different structures as discussed herein including but not limited to one or more quantum dots.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Upon studying the disclosure it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the devices and methods of various embodiments of the invention. Various embodiments can use permutations and or combinations of embodiments described herein. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description.

