---

title: Providing information regarding medical conditions
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are provided for using real-time video analysis and AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use of real-time vision object recognition medical conditions can be recognized in the real-time video stream and can be matched to medical condition related information regarding the medical condition and can also be matched to one or more targeted offers for products related to the medical condition. The medical condition related information may be presenting to the user of the mobile device in conjunction with display of the associated medical condition in a live video stream. Further, in some embodiments, a product can be recognized as products related to a previously recognized medical condition and indicators associated with the recognized products can be presented with the real-time video stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08582850&OS=08582850&RS=08582850
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08582850
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 985 filed Jul. 18 2011 entitled Providing Information Regarding Medical Conditions the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to commerce and more specifically providing medical condition related information and or product indications and or offers associated with medical conditions on a mobile communication device in conjunction with a live video stream.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have addition features that are becoming increasing more common and standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

Therefore a need exists to further the capabilities of mobile communication devices and in particular leverage augmented reality type analysis to provide mobile device user s with greater access to information.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis and AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with accessing medical condition related information and or product offers associated with recognized medical conditions and the like. Through the use of real time vision object recognition medical conditions can be recognized in the video stream and can be matched to data associated with the treatment of the medical conditions. In some embodiments products are identified and medical condition related information indicators are presented proximate a product determined to be associated with treatment of a previously identified medical condition.

According to embodiments of the invention a method provides medical condition related information. The method includes identifying via a computing device processor which objects in an image captured on a mobile communication device correspond to a medical condition determining via a computing device processor which of one or more medical conditions identified in the image video stream have associated medical condition related information and presenting via a display of the image on the mobile communication device one or more medical condition related information indicators each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the one or more medical conditions determined to have associated medical condition related information.

In some embodiments identifying a medical condition comprises identifying one or more images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device that correspond to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments identifying a medical condition comprises identifying one or more objects in a still image captured on a mobile communication device that corresponds to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments identifying a medical condition comprises identifying one or more medical conditions based at least in part on global positioning system information associated with the mobile communication device or other information indicating a location of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the medical condition related information comprises information related to the medical condition comprising information regarding proper treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments determining which of the identified medical conditions have associated medical condition related information comprises comparing the identified medical conditions to a database listing of medical conditions currently associated with medical condition related information.

According to embodiments of the invention an apparatus for providing medical condition related information includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus also includes image capture logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to capture an image medical condition identification logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to identify which objects in the image captured by a mobile communication device correspond to a medical condition medical condition related information logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine whether the identified medical condition has associated medical condition related information and medical condition related information presentation logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to present on a display of the mobile communication device one or more medical condition related information indicators each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the medical condition determined to have associated medical condition related information.

In some embodiments the medical condition identification logic is configured to identify one or more images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device that correspond to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments the medical condition identification logic is configured to identify one or more objects in a still image captured on a mobile communication device that corresponds to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments the medical condition identification logic is configured to identify one or more medical conditions based at least in part on global positioning system information associated with the mobile communication device or other information indicating a location of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the medical condition related information comprises information related to the medical condition comprising information regarding proper treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments the medical condition related information logic is configured to determine which of the identified medical conditions have associated medical condition related information comprises comparing the identified medical conditions to a database listing of medical conditions currently associated with medical condition related information.

According to embodiments of the invention a computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for providing health related information. The instructions include instructions for identifying which objects in an image captured on a mobile communication device correspond to a medical condition instructions for determining which of one or more medical conditions identified in the image have associated medical condition related information and instructions for presenting one or more medical condition related information indicators with an image displayed on the mobile communication device each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the one or more determined medical conditions.

According to embodiments of the invention a method for providing medical condition related information includes identifying via a server in communication with a mobile communication device which objects in an image captured on a mobile communication device correspond to a medical condition determining via the server which of one or more medical conditions identified in the image have associated medical condition related information and communicating instructions to the mobile communication device via the server for presenting a display of the image on the mobile communication device one or more medical condition related information indicators each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the one or more medical conditions determined to have associated medical condition related information.

In some embodiments identifying a medical condition comprises identifying one or more images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device that correspond to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments identifying a medical condition comprises identifying one or more objects in a still image captured on a mobile communication device that corresponds to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments identifying a medical condition comprises identifying one or more medical conditions based at least in part on global positioning system information associated with the mobile communication device or other information indicating a location of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the medical condition related information comprises information related to the medical condition comprising information regarding proper treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments determining which of the identified medical conditions have associated medical condition related information comprises comparing the identified medical conditions to a database listing of medical conditions currently associated with medical condition related information.

According to embodiments of the invention an apparatus for providing medical condition related information includes a server having a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus also includes communication logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive data from a mobile communication device the data corresponding to one or more objects in an image captured by the mobile communication device medical condition identification logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to identify which objects in the image captured by the mobile communication device correspond to a medical condition medical condition related information logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine whether the identified medical condition has associated medical condition related information and medical condition related information presentation logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to communicate instructions for presenting on a display of the mobile communication device one or more medical condition related information indicators each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the medical condition determined to have associated medical condition related information.

In some embodiments the medical condition identification logic is configured to identify one or more images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device that correspond to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments the medical condition identification logic is configured to identify one or more objects in a still image captured on a mobile communication device that corresponds to one or more medical conditions. In some embodiments the medical condition identification logic is configured to identify one or more medical conditions based at least in part on global positioning system information associated with the mobile communication device or other information indicating a location of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the medical condition related information comprises information related to the medical condition comprising information regarding proper treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments the medical condition related information logic is configured to compare the identified medical conditions to a database listing of medical conditions currently associated with medical condition related information.

According to embodiments of the invention a computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for execution on a server in communication with a mobile communication device the instructions for providing medical condition related information. The instructions include instructions for identifying which objects in an image captured on a mobile communication device correspond to a medical condition instructions for determining which of one or more medical conditions identified in the image have associated medical condition related information and instructions for communicating instructions to the mobile communication device for presenting one or more medical condition related information indicators with the image displayed on the mobile communication device each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the one or more determined medical conditions.

According to embodiments of the invention a method for providing medical condition information includes identifying via a computing device processor which objects in an image captured on a mobile communication device correspond to a product determining via a computing device processor which of one or more products identified in the image are associated with treatment of a previously identified medical condition and presenting via a display of the live video stream on the mobile communication device one or more medical condition indicators each medical condition indicator presented proximate a location of the one or more products determined to be associated with treatment of the previously identified medical condition.

In some embodiments the medical condition related information comprises at least one of nutrition information caloric information medical indication information proper medicinal treatment information or financial impact information. In some embodiments determining which of the identified products have associated medical condition related information comprises comparing the identified products to a database listing of products currently associated with medical condition related information. In some embodiments the method also includes storing information related to at least one medical or health need or want of a social network member of a user of the mobile communication device determining whether any of the identified products meet the health need or want of the social network member and presenting at least one health related information indicator indicating that at least one identified product meets the health need or want of the social network member. In some embodiments the method also includes storing information related to at least one medical or health characteristic of a user of the mobile communication device determining whether any of the identified products effect the health characteristic of the user and presenting at least one health related information indicator indicating that at least one identified product effects the health characteristic of the user.

According to embodiments of the invention an apparatus for providing medical condition information includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus also includes image capture logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to capture an image product identification logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to identify which objects in the image captured by a mobile communication device correspond to a product medical condition related information logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine whether the identified product is associated with treatment of a previously identified medical condition and medical condition related information presentation logic stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to present on a display of the mobile communication device one or more medical condition related information indicators each medical condition related information indicator presented proximate a location of the product determined to be associated with treatment of the previously identified medical condition.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for presenting medical condition related information on mobile communication devices in conjunction with presentation of a medical condition and or a product associated with treatment of a previously identified medical condition in a live video stream.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or data stores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more data stores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access data stores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or data store local to the mobile device and or server as well as a data store remote from the mobile device and or server

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server. In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a integrated circuit a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application an augmented reality AR presentation application described infra. in relation to a web browser application a Short Message Service SMS application an electronic mail i.e. email application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an object recognition experience in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture a video stream that includes an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing a video stream of the surrounding environment . The video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with an image capture device capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to an object recognition application that is either executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the object recognition application to identify specific objects . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device and associated applications to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For another example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots of a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device and associated applications such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize facial recognition markers to identify a person and or utilize a separate marker such as the clothes the person is wearing to confirm the identification to the desired confidence level that the person is in fact the person the mobile device identified. For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechanism to determine the location of the user and or object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the AR presentation application is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . The indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable i.e. include an embedded link such that the user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator .

In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the indicator by any conventional means e.g. keystroke touch voice command or the like for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the indicator is not be interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object e.g. just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent or an outline of the object such that the object remains discernable behind or enclosed by the indicator . In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the object recognition and AR presentation experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the indicator . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and an indicator associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one objects in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentation application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed indicators . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

Referring to an apparatus configured for presenting medical condition related information MCRI in a live video stream in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. Additionally apparatus includes image capture device and display both in communication with processor .

It should be noted that the apparatus may include more than one computing device. For example apparatus may include a mobile communication device and a network device which operate in unison to present MCRI in a live video stream displayed on a display of the mobile communication device. Thus the logic shown and described in apparatus may reside and be executed on a mobile communication device or a network device that is in wireless communication with the mobile communication device. A mobile communication device may be a mobile cellular telephone such as a smart phone or the like a Personal Data Assistant PDA a tablet computing device a laptop device or any other computing device having an image capture device and a display . It should be noted that while many embodiments of the mobile communication device are personal and or handheld devices in other embodiments of the invention a mobile communication device may be permanently or temporarily located within a moving vehicle such as an automobile or the like.

The memory of apparatus includes image capture logic that is in communication with image capture device and configured to capture a video stream . It should be noted that the video stream may be captured from various different environments. For example the video stream may be captured as a user directs the image capture device to focus on the user s body where the user has a medical condition such as an injury wound rash or other visible condition. The medical condition may also be an internal condition that may be recognized by ultrasound or other noninvasive vision method. As another example the video stream may be captured in conjunction with one or more other inputs such as audio input. For example an audio input may be provided that recognizes heartbeat of the patient based on sound waves. As another example a user may swallow a sensor configured to communicate information to the user s mobile device. In some embodiments the information communicated relates to gastro intestinal conditions or other internal conditions of the user. In some embodiments the internal information is combined with external information provided based on images captured from the video stream.

The video stream may also be captured as a user directs the image capture device to focus on one or more products such as while shopping in a retail location such as an aisle of a grocery store department store home improvement store physician s office pharmacy or the like. In addition the video stream may be captured in the user residence such as video of the contents of a medicine cabinet pantry cupboard storage area a refrigerator or the like. In other embodiments the video stream may be captured while watching media such as television Internet or the like reading media such as via the Internet a billboard advertisement magazine newspaper or the like.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes medical condition identification logic that is configured to identify one or more medical conditions in the video stream . For purposes of this disclosure medical conditions may be or include one or more of external bodily conditions internal bodily conditions topical bodily conditions injuries wounds rashes and the like. In some embodiments the memory of apparatus also includes product identification logic not shown that is configured to identify one or more products in the video stream . For purposes of this disclosure products may include products services and entities associated with products or services such as business entities manufacturers or the like. The medical condition identification logic may implement any known or future known identification mechanisms. For example medical condition identification logic may implement image recognition techniques based on characteristics shapes shades or colors sizes and the like associated with a medical condition. Similarly product identification logic may implement image recognition techniques based on characteristics indicia e.g. Optical Character Recognition OCR or the like logos shapes and the like associated with a product. In addition in those embodiments in which the products or tags displayed in conjunction with the products include a visually readable code such as Quick Response QR code bar code or the like the product identification logic may be implemented to decipher the code to identify the product.

In other embodiments of the invention the medical condition identification logic may identify the one or more medical conditions based on the geographic location of the user or information communicated from the user such as that the user has been swimming in the ocean. In such a case the likelihood of a medical condition such as a jellyfish sting is much more likely. Since medical condition identification based on location information and or information communicated from the medical conditions may not necessarily rely on an image for identification such identification may be lieu of or implemented in combination with visual identification techniques described above.

In other embodiments of the invention the product identification logic may identify the one or more products based on the geographic location of the products or information communicated from the products. In such embodiments the product identification logic may be configured to identify products by implementing geo fencing techniques or any other spatial technique. In other such embodiments the product identification logic may be configured to sense and receive short range communication such as via Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID Bluetooth or the like which includes identification of the products. Since product identification based on location and or information communicated from the products does not rely on an image for identification such identification may be lieu of or implemented in combination with visual identification techniques described above.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes medical condition information MCRI determination logic configured to determine if an identified medical condition currently has associated medical condition information. The medical condition information may include in various embodiments information corresponding to the user of the apparatus such as a user of a mobile device or in various other embodiments the medical condition information may include information related to the medical condition itself such as information regarding the proper treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments the MCRI includes information related to the specific user and or the medical condition and or any product s that may be used in treatment of the medical condition. Such information may include for example information related to alternative salves for use in treating an identified skin condition or may include information related to a recommended timeline and treatment regimen for a medical condition including information regarding the proposed product s .

The MCRI in various embodiments where the object is a drug or medicine or is related to a drug or medicine may include a cross reference to the user s current medicines and may include information regarding how the user s current medicines may affect the treatment regimen for the identified medical condition. The MCRI may include information regarding the user s propensities for sustaining specific injuries such as historical information regarding the user s prior injuries or information regarding the potential cross reactivity among medicines the user is already taking and or any medicines proposed for treatment of an identified medical condition. The MCRI may include information regarding generic drugs versus brand drugs determined to be potentially beneficial for use in treatment of an identified medical condition and or comparisons between the drugs such as information and or comparisons regarding ingredients price user reviews and the like. The MCRI may include information and or pointers to information regarding medical records related to a physician recommendation and or prescription associated with a recommended treatment regimen for the medical condition. In various embodiments the information may be related to the user s medical records and or the medical records of someone else such as the user s family member friend or child. The MCRI may include information related to any adverse effects the user experienced when taking certain medicine s in the past. The user in some embodiments inputs such information and it is stored and in other embodiments such information is retrieved from medical records. Finally in some embodiments the MCRI may include information or pointers to information posted or published by a third party such as an expert physician in the applicable field.

In various embodiments the MCRI includes information or pointers to information regarding video instructions and or video prescriptions recorded by the user s physician or some other physician and related to the medical condition such as information regarding treatment of an identified medical condition. For example in some embodiments the information may include first aid instructions for treating a broken limb a cut a bruise a scrape a twisted ankle or the like. Further such information may be based on the identified severity of the medical condition based on recognition by the mobile device based on predetermined severity such as a high severity for any broken limb and or based on explicit user input to the mobile device.

In some embodiments the MCRI includes information regarding the likelihood of a user in general or the specific user to adherence to taking a particular medication. Such information may be useful to the user in determining which of a set of proposed treatment regimens to choose. That is the user may desire to choose a less comprehensive treatment regimen to ensure that the user will in fact complete the treatment regimen despite the treatment regimen possibly being less effective than a more strenuous proposed treatment regimen. In some such embodiments upon receiving input from the user regarding a choice for a treatment regimen that was recommended by the system the system provides one or more rewards. In this regard in some cases the user is presented with one or more incentives for choosing the treatment regimen which of course may be more rigorous recommended by the system. Thus the system may influence the user to choose a more effective treatment regimen.

In some embodiments the MCRI includes information regarding other retailers in the vicinity of the user currently making offers on one or more of the products associated with treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments the MCRI includes information regarding retailers issuing coupons or rewards and or the like thereby potentially making one or more products more attractive at the user s current location or other competing location. Similarly the MCRI may provide information regarding the lowest price which is in some embodiments filtered only for brick and mortar retailers or online retailers. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to purchase from the current retailer or another retailer. In some embodiments once the user has chosen a product associated with treatment of the medical condition for purchase the device automatically purchases the product such as through an online transaction from the current retailer or another retailer either brick and mortar or online. In some embodiments the MCRI includes one or more recommendations regarding physician such as a specialist or other medical professional for treating and or providing information regarding the medical condition. In some embodiments the system upon approval from the user or in some embodiments automatically schedules an appointment for the user with the recommended medical professional. In some embodiments the user is connected automatically with the medical professional s office via telephone or other communication pathway for interaction such as for scheduling an appointment.

The MCRI may include purchase history either of a particular product or corresponding to the user s purchases. The MCRI may include information regarding whether the product was used for any other medical conditions in the past. In some embodiments the MCRI includes information regarding whether any friends or members of a social network posted any information regarding the product and or whether they posted any information regarding the medical condition in general and or related to person treatment regimens for the medical condition. In some embodiments the MCRI may include an avatar based intelligent agent configured to evaluate the medical condition such as an avatar illustrated to look like a health care professional such as a doctor for health information and provide a recommendation for treatment such as proposed product usage.

MCRI determination logic is in communication with MCRI database which stores MCRI for medical conditions and or products. The MCRI determination logic may be configured by the user or by the entity providing for the MCRI program. For example the user may configure the apparatus such that only MCRI of a certain type is determined such as MCRI for a specific medical condition and or product a specific set of medical conditions such as skin conditions blood conditions heart conditions respiratory conditions and the like or brand of product a specific provider retailer of the product or the like. In additional embodiments the entity providing the MCRI program may configure the apparatus such that only MCRI from with regard to medical conditions predetermined health care providers such as the user s personal doctor pharmacist or the like or from with regard to products predetermined manufacturers retailers medicinal suppliers physicians and the like are determined. For example only manufacturers and or retailers that are affiliated or otherwise have a relationship with the entity providing the MCRI program may be presented.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes MCRI presentation logic that is configured to present one or more MCRI indicators on a display of mobile communication device each MCRI indicator presented in a live video stream proximate a location of the one or more medical conditions or products determined to be associated with MCRI .

In some embodiments the MCRI presentation logic is configured for presenting the MCRI by itself. That is the MCRI is presented in response to the user s selection of an indicator associated with an object such as a medical condition or product and is presented instead of the real time video stream. In some embodiments the MCRI presentation logic is configured to present a website related to the MCRI such as a website detailing the user s health information and the potential or predetermined perceived impact of the product on the user s specific medical condition. Similarly a website may be presented that is related to the diagnosis and characteristics of the medical condition. In various embodiments for example the MCRI presentation logic is configured to access information related to the identified medical condition such as the medical condition s appearance symptoms duration diagnosis treatment and the like. The MCRI presentation logic is also configured to determine the ingredients in a product such as a medicine and thereafter present information regarding the perceived impact of the product on the user should the user ingest or otherwise use the product or medicine for treatment of the medical condition. The MCRI presentation logic in some embodiments may correlate the user s medical history or other information regarding the user s health with the product proposed for treatment of the identified medical condition and thereby may present information specific to the user regarding use of the product to treat the medical condition. For example based on the user s medical history the proposed medicine may not be recommended because of a potential allergic reaction and therefore an alternative may be proposed. In some embodiments the MCRI presentation logic is configured to access known medication treatment plans and present information regarding the treatment plan to the user and or present information regarding the perceived impact of using a medicine based on a known medication treatment plan. In some embodiments the MCRI presentation logic is further configured for presenting one or more indicators indicating to a user whether to consider a particular product or medicine given the user s specific health situation. The MCRI presentation logic in some embodiments is further configured to present to the user an indicator such as a large red X overlaid on the real time video stream representation of the product. Thus the user is made aware of the danger of that particular product or medicine based on the user s specific health situation. Alternatively of course the MCRI presentation logic is configured to present to the user an indicator highlighting those product s which may be of particular use in treatment of the identified medical condition.

In various embodiments of the invention the MCRI indicator may be a graphical tag highlighted area or an outline around the border of the medical condition and or product as displayed in the live video stream . As discussed in the example above a user of the mobile communication device may activate the MCRI indicator through touch mouse pointer click keypad voice command or the like to display further information regarding the MCRI e.g. additional resources for information potential health implications or affects on a user s predetermined health goals such as losing weight and the like download the MCRI associated with a medical condition to their mobile communication device for subsequent consideration during a product purchasing decision or for example during administration of a medicinal product and or initiate network communication with a website or the like for retrieving additional information on the medical condition and or product and conducting a transaction to purchase the product associated with treatment of the identified medical condition.

In specific embodiments of the invention the user of the mobile communication device may be actively looking for MCRI by positioning the image capture device in front of medical conditions and or products so as to capture the video stream subsequently identify the medical conditions and or products determine if any MCRI is associated with the medical conditions and or products and present the MCRI indicators in the live video stream that the user is viewing. For example the user positions the mobile device to scan a body part such as the user s shin or the aisle of a pharmacy grocery store or their pantry within their residence. In some embodiments the mobile device may be configured to recommend combining medical conditions to determine a diagnosis and or to recommend combining products to create a complete treatment regimen associated with a specific diagnosis and or medical condition s . For example the mobile device may put together products form a cabinet grocery stores or other area. As the user moves through the location the device may identify the predetermined products that should be part of the treatment regimen. In this regard the device provides the user a treatment regimen dynamically created over time.

In other specific embodiments of the invention the user may be passively looking for MCRI associated with one or more medical conditions and or products such as when the apparatus has been configured to search for user specified MCRI or the like. In such a passive mode the mobile communication device may be in a continuously on mode and or automatically turned on and off on a predetermined periodical schedule i.e. intermittent mode . In the passive mode determination and presentation of an MCRI may require that the user be prompted to notify the user of the MCRI associated with a medical condition and or product. The prompt may include communicating an alert to the user such as an audio alert communicated from the mobile communication device e.g. an audible alarm or the like and or a visual alert e.g. display of a flashing light on the mobile communication device or the like. For example while the user is sunbathing on vacation the user s mobile device recognizes that the user is getting sunburned. The mobile device provides an alert to the user that the sunburn is worsening and in some embodiments provides potential treatment options such as products available for purchase at a nearby retailer. In some embodiments such a product may be purchased using the mobile device over the Internet and the user may then retrieve the purchased item at the nearby retailer for use in treating the medical condition. In some embodiments the mobile device includes an ultraviolet sensor configured for sensing an amount of radiation received such as from the sun while outdoors. Information regarding radiation received may be presented to the user as MCRI.

In some embodiments of the invention the mobile device and or server may also include medical condition communication logic not shown configured to communication information regarding the medical condition to one or more medical professionals. For example in some embodiments the logic communicates medical condition identification and or determination information to the user s personal care physician or other predetermined individual or individuals. In other embodiments where the medical condition is serious and or life threatening 911 emergency services and or others emergency entities are contacted and information regarding the medical may be relayed. In some embodiments information regarding the medical condition may be communicated to first responders such as police ambulance personnel and or firefighters responding to a call regarding the user and the medical condition. Some of the information that may be communicated includes streaming video of the medical condition video regarding the treatment of the medical condition pictures of the medical condition and or treatment of the medical condition statistics and or additional information sensed from other sensors disposed with the mobile device.

In some embodiments the medical condition communication logic is configured for providing information directly to a medical professional s mobile device or other computing device in the event the user has a medical condition requiring attention. In some embodiments the user may request communication of information regarding the medical condition to the user s physician for example. The information that may be communicated to the medical professional may include streaming video regarding the medical condition.

Processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other integrated circuit set processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs or modules such as medical condition identification logic product identification logic MCRI determination logic and MCRI presentation logic stored in the memory of the apparatus and or apparatus .

Processor may include various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and or apparatus and the operability of the apparatus and or apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed embodiments processing subsystems of apparatus and or apparatus may include any subsystem used in conjunction with applications modules components and routines described herein.

As previously discussed the memory of apparatus includes image capture logic that is in communication with image capture device and configured to capture a video stream . Additionally memory includes medical condition identification logic that is configured to identify one or more medical conditions in the video stream . For purposes of this disclosure medical conditions may be or include one or more of external bodily conditions internal bodily conditions topical bodily conditions injuries wounds rashes and the like. Memory may also include product identification logic not shown that may implement image recognition techniques based on characteristics indicia e.g. Optical Character Recognition OCR or the like logos shapes and the like associated with a product. In addition in those embodiments in which the products or tags displayed in conjunction with the products include a visually readable code such as Quick Response QR code bar code or the like the product identification logic may be implemented to decipher the code to identify the product.

The memory of apparatus additionally includes MCRI determination logic configured to determine if an identified medical condition and or product has associated MCRI . Thus MCRI determination logic is in communication with database which stores MCRI and for medical conditions and products and . Products and are associated respectively with MCRI and MCRI . In various embodiments the products and are products that are presented as potential or recommended treatment options or as inclusions in a recommended treatment regimen for a previously identified medical condition or conditions. In other embodiments product and product represent alternatives to one another and MCRI and may include information to assist the user in choosing which alternative to purchase.

Additionally in specific embodiments of the invention memory of apparatus includes communication logic that is configured to create and communicate instructions from apparatus e.g server to apparatus e.g. mobile communication device in order to initiate display of a presentation of the MCRI in conjunction with the real time video stream or other type of display such as merely displaying the MCRI. Thus communication logic is in communication with database which stores MCRI MCRI and or MCRI for designated medical condition product and or product respectively.

As previously discussed in relation to the memory of apparatus additionally includes MCRI presentation logic that is configured to present one or more MCRI indicators on a display of mobile communication device. Each MCRI indicator is presented in a live video stream proximate a location of the one or more medical conditions and or one or more products and or determined to be associated with the medical condition and or associated with a product and or that has been determined to be suitable for treatment of a previously identified medical condition.

In one embodiment of the invention the MCRI indicators and or any other indicators which indicate a feature related to the MCRI associated with the medical condition and or product may be displayed separately. In such embodiments the user of the mobile communication device may switch between modes to display the information which they are interested in. For example a first mode may provide for display of MCRI indicators a second mode may provide for display of MCRI indicators corresponding to a different medical condition such as a related medical condition and or a type of product or class of product and a third mode may provide for display of other designated medical condition related and or product related indicators and so on. Switching between modes may be configured to occur by any configurable means such as key activation touch screen activation voice command or the like.

In other related embodiments of the invention two or more MCRI indicators and or any other indicators may be displayed in unison such that indicators are graphically distinct such as different colors highlights etc and may be configured to overlay one another. As previously noted in one embodiment of the invention the MCRI indicators may be a graphical tag highlighted area such as specific color or pattern highlighting or an outline around the border of the medical condition and or product or as displayed in the live video stream . The user of the mobile communication device may activate the indicators through touch mouse pointer click keypad voice command or the like to display further information regarding the MCRI .

In one specific embodiment of the invention the MCRI indicator may be configured as a dotted line surrounding the border of the associated product . The user may activate the MCRI indicator such as by touching the display in the area of the product providing the requisite key stroke or voice command or the like. Upon activation the MCRI is automatically downloaded to an MCRI database which is sometimes referred to as electronic MCRI.

In other embodiments of the invention other indicators such as a solid line surrounding the border of an associated medical condition and or product or may be implemented to indicate that the MCRI already exists in the user s electronic MCRI. In still further embodiments of the invention other indicators may be implemented to communicate other information about the MCRI. For example other indicators may indicate that MCRI is out of date and the user should seek out updated MCRI from another source. In some embodiments information regarding additional sources is presented to the user such as for example information regarding one or more websites hosting additional information such as live video chat with a life management coach physician nurse peer buddy social network member or the like for information consulting and or positive feedback and or contact information regarding one or more people such as physicians nurses pharmacists nutritionists and the like who are trained professionals capable of providing additional and or updated MCRI. In some embodiments the contact information corresponds to those people within a predetermined physical radius of the user and in other embodiments the people are already associated with the user such as in a physician patient relationship or social network. In one specific embodiment of the invention a blinking MCRI indicator may indicate that the MCRI has some characteristic particularly useful to the user such as the product is both assists the user to treat a previously identified medical condition as well as being low in sugar.

In other embodiments of the invention activation of the MCRI indicator may provide for the mobile communication device to initiate communication with a network entity such as a web site or the like configured for purchasing the product or or providing additional information related to the product or .

Referring to a flow diagram illustrates a method for providing medical condition related information.

At Event images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device are identified as corresponding to medical condition s of a user. Capturing of the video stream may include for example positioning the mobile communication device to view and capture the video stream of any medical condition s on the user s body.

Identifying which images from the video stream are associated with medical condition s may include analyzing the real time video stream for characteristics such as color breadth depth size shape and the like of the medical condition characteristics that sometimes referred to herein as markers to identify the images as medical condition s .

At Event one or more of the identified medical conditions are determined to currently be associated with MCRI. The MCRI may include but is not limited to information corresponding to the user of the apparatus such as a user of a mobile device or in various other embodiments the medical condition information may include information related to the medical condition itself such as information regarding the proper treatment of the medical condition. In some embodiments the MCRI includes information related to the specific user and or the medical condition and or any product s that may be used in treatment of the medical condition. Determination of which medical condition s have associated MCRI may be implemented by comparing the identified medical conditions to database listing of medical conditions currently associated with MCRI. It should be noted that in certain embodiments user configuration may dictate which types of MCRI the user desires and thus which databases are accessed for searching retrieving the MCRI or which filters are implemented within the databases for determining associated MCRI.

At Event one or more indicators are presented on the display of the mobile communication device in conjunction with a live video stream. Each of the indicators is presented proximate to a location of a corresponding medical condition determined to currently have associated MCRI. As previously noted the indicator may take various forms such as display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot or the like. In specific embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that a user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command or the like the indicator to provide display of specifics related to the MCRI downloading the MCRI to an electronic folder called an electronic MCRI or accessing a network entity such as a web site for additional information regarding the medical condition as well as potential treatment information. In other embodiments the indicator itself may provide the MCRI or a portion of the MCRI.

In other specific embodiments the indicator may indicate the availability of current MCRI such as a specific color code shading or outlining of the product e.g. dotted line outlining the product . The user of the mobile communication device may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command or the like the indicator to add some or all the MCRI to an electronic storage area referred to herein as an electronic MCRI. MCRI that has previously been added to the electronic MCRI but has yet to have been reviewed by the user may provide for a different visual indicator than MCRI that have yet to be added to the electronic MCRI. For example MCRI that has previously been added may be shaded differently than MCRI previously added to the electronic MCRI or may have a solid line outlining the medical condition. Other visual indicators may indicate other features of the MCRI.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of another method for providing medical condition related information.

At Event a server in communication with a mobile communication device identifies any images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device corresponding to a medical condition. At Event the server determines which of one or more medical conditions identified in the video stream have associated MCRI. At Event the server communicates instructions to the mobile communication device for presenting a display of the live video stream on the mobile communication device in conjunction with one or more MCRI indicators. In some embodiments each MCRI indicator is presented proximate a location of the one or more medical conditions determined to have associated MCRI.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for providing medical condition related information in conjunction with a presentation of a product determined to be associated with treatment of a previously identified medical condition.

At Event images in a video stream captured on a mobile communication device are identified as corresponding to products associated with a previously identified medical condition of the user. Capturing of the video stream may include for example a user moving about an aisle within a pharmacy grocery store or other retailer while positioning the mobile communication device to view and capture the video stream of the products on the shelves in the aisle. In another embodiment of the invention a user may capture a video stream within their residence such as positioning the mobile communication device to view and capture the video stream of products within their cupboard pantry or their refrigerator freezer or the like specific products appliances within the residence which may need replacement or duplication or products shown in a television commercial online video online advertisement Youtube video or the like.

Identifying which images from the video stream are associated with products including services may include analyzing the real time video stream for objects logos artwork or other product indicating features referred to herein as markers to identify the images as products. As previously noted the images may also be identified as products based on coded information such as QR code bar code or the like affixed to proximate to the product. In addition product identification may utilize Optical Character recognition OCR geo fencing position location short range communication e.g. NFC RFID or the like in addition to or in lieu of identification of the products based on the images captured on the mobile communication device.

At Event one or more of the identified products are determined to currently be associated with MCRI. The MCRI may include but is not limited to nutrition information caloric information medical indication information proper medicinal treatment information financial impact information or the like. Determination of which products have associated MCRI may be implemented by comparing the identified products to database listing of products currently associated with MCRI. The stored listing of product MCRI may be specific to the retail location at which the real time video stream is being captured or in other embodiments the listing or listings of product MCRI may be specific to retail merchant locations physical or online at which the user of the mobile communication typically shops or from competing retailers merchants at which the user does not typically shop or a combination of both. In other embodiments the listing or listings of product MCRI may be associated with one or more third party product programs such as a financial institution MCRI program or the like. Thus in those embodiments in which the MCRI is not tied to the location of the real time video stream such as residential video stream or the like the MCRI may be irrespective of which retailer merchant the user typically uses and or prefers. It should be noted that in certain embodiments user configuration may dictate which types of MCRI the user desires and thus which databases are accessed for searching retrieving the MCRI or which filters are implemented within the databases for determining associated MCRI.

At Event one or more indicators are presented on the display of the mobile communication device in conjunction with a live video stream. Each of the indicators is presented proximate to a location of a corresponding product determined to currently have associated MCRI. As previously noted the indicator may take various forms such as display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot or the like. In specific embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that a user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command or the like the indicator to provide display of specifics related to the MCRI downloading the MCRI to an electronic folder called an electronic MCRI or accessing a network entity such as a web site for purchasing the product. In other embodiments the indicator itself may provide the MCRI or a portion of the MCRI.

In other specific embodiments the indicator may indicate the availability of current MCRI such as a specific color code shading or outlining of the product e.g. dotted line outlining the product . The user of the mobile communication device may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command or the like the indicator to add some or all the MCRI to an electronic storage area referred to herein as an electronic MCRI. MCRI that has previously been added to the electronic MCRI but has yet to have been reviewed by the user may provide for a different visual indicator than MCRI that have yet to be added to the electronic MCRI. For example MCRI that has previously been added may be shaded differently than MCRI previously added to the electronic MCRI or may have a solid line outlining the product. Other visual indicators may indicate other features of the MCRI such as expirations date of the product whether the product fits within the user s predetermined health goals whether the product affects any of the user s predetermined allergies or the like.

In some embodiments the user s social network family or friends medical or health need are addressed by the invention. For example the user s immediate family provides health information that is stored on one or more memories and or databases discussed above. The health information is then used in conjunction with the real time image analysis to determine whether and objects or products in captured in the video stream meet the wants and or needs of one or more of the family members. For example in some embodiments the family members upload information regarding their health conditions such as seasonal allergies. The father of the family for example while he is shopping at a grocery store is using his mobile device to identify products needed by the family. The mobile device captures images of various seasonal allergy medications and provides one or more indicators indicating which if any of the seasonal allergy medications to purchase. Further in conjunction with various embodiments of the invention various other information may be provided via the mobile device to the user such as for example coupon offers offers for different levels of rewards and the like.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device is configured to present MCRI related to medical first aid. The mobile communication device captures one or more images of a wound or other injury or illness. An artificial intelligence engine running on either the mobile communication device and or a server determines the nature of the wound or other injury and searches for and or retrieves information related to the proper first aid treatment for the wound or injury. For example if a user has a cut on her hand she can direct the mobile communication device to capture a video and or still shot of the cut. The AI engine then determines that the wound is a cut and retrieves MCRI related to the proper first aid treatment for a cut. In some embodiments the AI engine determines the size shape depth location relative to the body and other information based on an analysis of the video and or still shots. Based on the results of the analysis the AI engine in some embodiments accesses a database including information related to proper treatment for a variety of injuries and or illnesses. In some embodiments the AI engine provides an automatic connection with a physician nurse or other specialist using the mobile communication device. For example the connection may be a telephone call a text message an email an automated injury or illness audio and or video message and the like. In some embodiments the AI engine forwards a video and or still shots of the injury or evidence of illness which in some embodiments is done in conjunction with another connection such as a telephone call.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or financial institution server s may be provided with a wish list from a user or administrator defined with predefined rules engines including instructions such that when an offer such as a targeted offer or a product recognized for sale matches the predefined rules the financial institution server s may execute purchase of and payment for the product on behalf of the user.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis and AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream in specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

