---

title: Selective proton coupled folate transporter and folate receptor, and GRAFTase inhibitor compounds and methods of using the same
abstract: 

These compounds are useful in methods for treating cancer, selectively targeting cancerous cells via the proton coupled folate transporter, folate receptor alpha, and/or folate receptor beta pathways, inhibiting GARFTase in cancerous cells, and selectively targeting activated macrophages in a patient having an autoimmune disease, such as rheumatoid arthritis.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511069&OS=09511069&RS=09511069
owner: Wayne State University
number: 09511069
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120726
---
This utility patent application is a divisional patent application of and claims the benefit of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 242 988 filed on Oct. 1 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 252 804 granted Aug. 28 2012. The entire contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 242 988 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 252 804 is incorporated by reference into this divisional utility patent application.

This invention was supported in part by the National Institutes of Health U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under Contract No. R01 CA125153. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to selective proton coupled folate transporter PCFT and alpha folate receptor FR alpha beta folate receptor FR beta and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase GARFTase enzyme inhibitor compounds and their methods of use. Preferably these compounds have heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate substituents or heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate substituents. The compounds of this invention may be made into salts that are water soluble for providing orally active selective antitumor agents.

Known cancer chemotherapy agents target both normal and cancerous tumor cells. This lack of selectivity for tumor cells results in cytotoxicity to the normal cells and is one of the major causes of chemotherapeutic failure in the treatment of cancer. Further advanced stage and chemotherapeutic agent resistant tumors may be difficult to treat with know chemotherapeutic agents such as for example but not limited to carboplatin or paclitaxel docitaxel .

Folates are members of the B Class of vitamins that are cofactors for the synthesis of nucleotide precursors. serine and methionine in one carbon transfer reactions. Since mammals cannot synthesize folates de novo cellular uptake of these derivatives is essential for cell growth and tissue regeneration. Reflecting their hydrophilic anionic character folates do not cross biological membranes by diffusion alone. Accordingly mammalian cells have evolved sophisticated membrane transport systems for facilitating accumulation of folates.

The ubiquitously expressed reduced folate carrier RFC is the major transport system for folates in mammalian cells and mediates concentrative uptake of folate substrates. RFC is a member of the major facilitator superfamily of transporters and is an integral transmembrane protein with micromolar affinity for its physiologic substrate 5 methyl tetrahydrofolate. Importantly RFC is also the primary transporter of clinically relevant antifolate drugs used for cancer including methotrexate MTX raltitrexed ZD 1694 Tomudex RTX and pemetrexed LY231514 Alimta PMX . Loss of RFC levels or function is a common mode of antifolate resistance. While a previously unrecognized proton coupled folate transporter PCFT was recently reported to contribute to folate absorption in the duodenum its tissue specificity and overall role in folate homeostasis are not clear yet.

The family of folate receptors FRs represents yet another mode of folate uptake into mammalian cells. The FRs are high affinity folate binding proteins encoded by three distinct genes designated FR alpha FR beta and FR gamma localized to chromosome 11q13.3 q13.5. In contrast to RFC and PCFT FR alpha and FR beta are anchored in plasma membranes by a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol GPI anchor. FR gamma contains no GPI anchor and is secreted. Whereas FR alpha and FR beta but not FR gamma mediate cellular accumulation of folate at low nanomolar concentrations by receptor mediated endocytosis these homologous proteins show differences in binding affinities for reduced folate substrates.

The high affinity FRs offer a potential means of selective tumor targeting given their restricted pattern of tissue expression and function. For instance FR alpha is expressed on the apical membrane surface of normal tissues such as kidney placenta and choroid plexus whereas FR beta is expressed in placenta spleen and thymus. Importantly FR alpha is overexpressed in a number of carcinomas including up to 90 of ovarian cancers. Close associations were reported between FR alpha expression levels with grade and differentiation status of ovarian tumors. FR alpha in normal tissues unlike tumors is reported to be inaccessible to the circulation. FR beta is expressed in a wide range of myeloid leukemia cells. FR beta in normal hematopoetic cells differs from that in leukemia cells in its inability to bind folate ligand.

Folate conjugated cytotoxins liposomes or radionuclides or cytoxic antifolates have all been used to target FRs. Unfortunately for most folate based therapeutics such as classical antifolates including RTX PMX and lometrexol LMX tumor selectivity is lost since substrates are shared between FRs and the ubiquitously expressed RFC. Indeed this likely explains the severe myelosupression encountered in phase 1 studies with LMX.

If a FR targeted ligand were itself cytotoxic without RFC activity selective tumor targeting would ensue. Antifolates that selectively target FRs over RFC have been described including CB3717 and more recently cyclopenta g quinazoline antifolates BGC638 and BGC945 all of which potently inhibit thymidylate synthase TS within cells. When BGC945 was tested in mice there was no toxicity to normal tissues as reflected in weight loss nor were there any macroscopic signs of toxicity to major organs consistent with the premise that FR targeting is highly selective.

As is known by those skilled in the art FRs such as FR alpha and FR beta are overexpressed on a substantial amount of certain surfaces of a number of types of cancerous tumors. FR alpha is known to be overexpressed in ovarian endometrial kidney lung mesothelioma breast and brain tumors. FR beta is known to be overexpressed in acute myeloid leukemias

In most normal cells the FRs are not present. In most normal cells folic acid is not taken up by way of a reduced folate carrier RFC system. Uptake of folates and antifolates by tissues and tumors is primarily by the ubiquitously expressed RFC system. In light of the specificity of folic acid conjugates of folic acid have been used to selectively deliver toxins liposomes imaging agents and cytotoxic agents to FR expressing tumors. The major limitation of the folic acid conjugates is that they require cleavage from the folic acid moiety to release for example the cytotoxic agent. Cleavage of the cytotoxic agent moiety from the folic acid conjugate is often difficult to achieve and the anti tumor activity is hindered or is nonexistent as a result of the inability or reduced ability to release the cytotoxic agent. Another limitation of the folic acid conjugates entails premature release of the cytotoxic agent during transport and before reaching the cancerous tumor. The premature release thus leads to undesired toxicity in normal cells.

The FRs alpha and beta represent another mode of folate uptake and are considered by those skilled in the art to be potential chemotherapeutic targets for selective tumor uptake. US Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0045710 A1 published Feb. 21 2008 Aleem Gangjee describes compounds for treating cancer tumors wherein fused cyclic pyrimidines are used to selectively target FRs of cancerous tumors that express FR alpha and FR beta and that inhibit glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase GARFTase enzyme. The compounds are not significantly taken up by a cell or tissue using the RFC system.

There is a need for single compounds having potent anti tumor activity that selectively target FR alpha and FR beta of cancerous cells that inhibit GARFTase in cancerous cells and that have a negligible substrate activity for RFC.

The present invention meets the above need by providing selective proton coupled folate transporter PCFT and alpha and beta FR and GARTFase enzyme inhibitor compounds.

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O wherein the bond at position 5 6 may either be a single or a double bond wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond wherein Ris the same as Rexcept that Ris not a bond y is an integer ranging from zero up to and including 6 z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven.

Another embodiment of this invention comprises the compound of Formula I as described herein wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is CR R and wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein is provided comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In yet another embodiment of this invention a compound of Formula I as described herein is provided comprising wherein said side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein and wherein A is CR R and wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of this invention provides a compound of Formula I as described herein comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein comprises the side chain having one or more carbon to carbon double or triple bonds between the carbon atoms of C and C .

In a preferred embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein is provided comprising wherein A is NR and R is a hydrogen atom and wherein y is from one to six carbon atoms z is zero R and Rare each hydrogen atoms and X is selected from the group consisting of a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group and a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group. The heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group is selected from the group consisting of a dihydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a monohydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group and a piperidyl carbonyl L glutamate group and stereoisomers thereof. The heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group is selected from the group consisting of a thiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a furan carbonyl L glutamate group a pyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group and a pyridine carbonyl L glutamate group.

In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein provides wherein the side chain of Formula I comprises zero or one or more double bonds comprising E isomers and Z isomers.

Other embodiments of this invention provide for the R and S optical isomers of the heterocyclic compounds of the present invention when the double bond of the ring system is broken.

Other embodiments of this invention provide a pharmaceutical composition having a therapeutically effective amount of a compound comprising Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of the compound comprising Formula I as described herein.

Further embodiments of this invention provide methods for treating cancer targeting cancerous cells via the proton coupled folate transporter pathway inhibiting GARFTase in cancerous cells and selectively targeting activated macrophages in a patient having an autoimmune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis.

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms 

A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O 

wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at position 6 and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a one hydrogen atom or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and combinations thereof and

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond 

Another embodiment of this invention provides the compound of Formula II comprising wherein the side chain has one or more carbon to carbon double or triple bonds between the carbon atoms of C . In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula II comprises wherein the side chain comprises zero or one or more double bonds comprising E isomers and Z isomers. Another embodiment provides the compound of Formula II comprising one of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate thereof. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula II is also provided.

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O wherein the bond at position 5 6 may either be a single or a double bond wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond wherein Ris the same as Rexcept that Ris not a bond y is an integer ranging from zero up to and including 6 z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven.

Another embodiment of this invention comprises the compound of Formula I as described herein wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is the CR R and wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein is provided comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In yet another embodiment of this invention a compound of Formula I as described herein is provided comprising wherein said side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein and wherein A is the CR R and wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of this invention provides a compound of Formula I as described herein comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

The heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group is selected from the group consisting of a dihydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a monohydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group and a piperidyl carbonyl L glutamate group and stereoisomers thereof.

The heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group is selected from the group consisting of a thiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a furan carbonyl L glutamate group a pyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group and a pyridine carbonyl L glutamate group.

In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein comprises the side chain having one or more carbon to carbon double or triple bonds between the carbon atoms of C and C .

In a preferred embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein is provided comprising wherein A is NR and R is a hydrogen atom and wherein y is from one to six carbon atoms z is zero R and Rare each hydrogen atoms and X is selected from the group consisting of a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group.

In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula I as described herein provides wherein the side chain of Formula I comprises zero or one or more double bonds comprising E isomers and Z isomers.

Another embodiment of this invention provides a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of the compound of Formula I as described herein.

In yet another embodiment of this invention a pharmaceutical composition is provided comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound comprising Formula I 

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O wherein the bond at position 5 6 may either be a single or a double bond wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond wherein Ris the same as Rexcept that Ris not a bond y is an integer ranging from zero up to and including 6 z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven.

In another embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical composition comprises wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is CR R and further comprising wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I comprises wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of this invention provides the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein and wherein A is CR R and further comprising wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

A further embodiment of this invention provides the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of this invention provides the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I comprising the side chain having one or more carbon to carbon double or triple bonds between the carbon atoms of C and C .

In a preferred embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I comprises wherein A is NR and R is a hydrogen atom and wherein y is from one to six carbon atoms z is zero R and Rare each hydrogen atoms and X is selected from the group consisting of a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group and a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group.

In another embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I comprises wherein said the side chain of Formula I comprises zero or one or more double bonds comprising E isomers and Z isomers.

This invention provides for a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of the pharmaceutical composition of Formula I as described herein.

A method of treating a patient diagnosed with cancer is provided in this invention comprising administering to a patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I 

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O wherein the bond at position 5 6 may either be a single or a double bond wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond wherein Ris the same as Rexcept that Ris not a bond y is an integer ranging from zero up to and including 6 and z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven.

In another embodiment of this invention the method of treating a patient with cancer as described herein includes administering to the patient a compound of Formula I comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is CR R and further comprising wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

Another embodiment of this invention provides a method of treating a patient with cancer as described herein including administering to the patient a compound of Formula I comprising wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 6 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 5 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention a method of treating a patient with cancer as described herein includes administering to the patient a compound of Formula I wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein A is CR R and further comprising wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention a method of treating a patient with cancer as described herein includes administering to a patient a compound of Formula I wherein the side chain attachment is at carbon atom position 5 and wherein A is NR wherein R is either a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and wherein the carbon atom at position 6 independently has attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms of positions 5 and 6 is a double bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond and combinations thereof.

The methods of treating a patient with cancer as described herein include wherein the heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group is selected from the group consisting of a dihydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a monohydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group and a piperidyl carbonyl L glutamate group and stereoisomers thereof and wherein the heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group is selected from the group consisting of a thiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a furan carbonyl L glutamate group a pyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group and a pyridine carbonyl L glutamate group.

The methods of treating a patient with cancer as described herein include administering to the patient an effective amount of the compound of Formula I wherein the side chain has one or more carbon to carbon double or triple bonds between the carbon atoms of C and C .

Preferably the method of treating a patient with cancer as described herein includes administering to the patient an effective amount of the compound of Formula I wherein A is NR and R is a hydrogen atom and wherein y is from one to six carbon atoms z is zero R and Rare each hydrogen atoms and X is selected from the group consisting of a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group as described herein. The method of treating a patient with cancer as described herein includes administering to the patient an effective amount of a compound of Formula I wherein the side chain of Formula I comprises zero or one or more double bonds comprising E isomers and Z isomers.

All of the methods of treating a patient with cancer as described herein include administering to the patient an effective amount of the Compound of Formula I as described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of the compound. of Formula I as described herein.

A method for targeting cancerous cells via the proton coupled folate transporter pathway is provided comprising 

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d 

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms 

A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O 

wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond 

X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond 

z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven 

 b subjecting cancerous cells expressing a human proton coupled folate transporter PCFT to said compound of Formula I 

 d effecting the selective transport of said compound of Formula I bound to said human PCFT to a target cancerous cell wherein said compound of Formula I acts as a growth inhibitor of said target cancerous cells and inhibits GARFTase within said target cancerous cells.

Another embodiment of this method for targeting cancerous cells of this invention as described herein include wherein the compound of Formula I is selective for receptors of FR alpha and human PCFT associated with expressing cancerous cells. In this method of targeting cancerous cell the compound of Formula I is not significantly taken up by tissues or cells using the reduced folate carrier RFC system.

Other embodiments of this method for targeting cancerous cells comprise employing any of the various compounds of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of a compound of Formula I as described herein thus it will be understood by those skilled in the art that any of the positions for attaching the side chain as described herein are embodiments of this invention. These methods for targeting cancer cells include wherein the compound targets cancerous cells selected from the group consisting of ovarian breast cervical and kidney brain tumors.

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d 

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms 

A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O 

wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond 

X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond 

z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven 

 d retaining said compound in said cancerous cell for a sufficient amount of time for effecting binding of said compound with a GARFTase enzyme and

 e lysing of said cancerous cell via said binding of said compound with said GARFTase enzyme and inhibiting the DNA replication of said cancerous cell.

Preferably the method of this invention of inhibiting GARFTase as described herein comprises wherein the compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of the compound of Formula I is selective for receptors of FR alpha associated with expressing cancerous cells.

Other embodiments of this invention of inhibiting GARTase as described herein include employing any one of the various embodiments of the compound of Formula I or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate as described herein including comprising the side chain attachment at various positions 5 6 or 7 as described herein.

Another embodiment of this invention provides for the inhibition of AICARFTase when A is equal to a sulfur atom in the compound of Formula I.

Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that affects the quality of life of millions of patients worldwide. Rheumatoid arthritis is characterized by inflammation of a patient s joints and destruction of the cartilage and bone of the patient. While the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis is complex it is known to involve the infiltration and activation of immune cells along with the release of destructive inflammatory mediators into a patient s synovium of affected joints. Paulos Chrystal M. et al. Folate receptor mediated targeting of therapeutic and imaging agents to activated macrophages in rheumatoid arthritis Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews Vol. 56 pages 1205 1217 2004 describe the discovery of folate receptor expression on activated macrophage cells in patient models human and animal with naturally occurring rheumatoid arthritis and is incorporated herein by reference specifically section 3 page 1208 and section 5 pages 1212 1214.

The present invention provides a method for selectively targeting activated macrophages in a patient having an autoimmune disease comprising 

wherein Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b an OH c CH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and tautomers of b and d 

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms 

A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O 

wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at positions 5 6 or 7 and wherein when said side chain attachment is at position 7 then A comprises one of a CR and b N and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a two hydrogen atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a single bond or one hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and a hydrogen atom if the bond between carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 is a single bond or an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms if the bond between carbon atoms 5 and 6 is a double bond and combinations thereof and

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond 

X is either a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group or a hydrogen H and wherein X is a hydrogen then Ris a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group and wherein X is a heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group or a heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group then Ris a hydrogen or a bond 

z is an integer ranging from zero up to and including seven wherein the sum total of integers y and z is equal to or less than seven 

 d effecting the selective transport of said compound of Formula I bound to said FR to a target activated macrophage of the autoimmune disease wherein said compound of Formula I acts as an inhibitor of said activated macrophage s release of destructive inflammatory mediators.

The method for selectively targeting activated macrophages of the present invention includes wherein the compound of Formula I is selective for receptors of FR alpha and human proton coupled folate transporter PCFT associated with expressing macrophage cells.

Preferably the method for selectively targeting activated macrophages in a patient having an autoimmune disease as described herein includes wherein the activated macrophage cell expressing the FR is rheumatoid arthritis.

Other embodiments of the method for targeting activated macrophage cells in a patient with an autoimmune disease include wherein the compound of Formula I or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs solvates or hydrates of the compound of Formula I include any of the various embodiments as described herein of the compound of Formula I including attachment of the side chain at any of the positions 5 6 or 7 as described herein.

Preferably the method of selectively targeting an activated macrophage in a patient having an autoimmune disease that is rheumatoid arthritis includes delivering the compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of the compound of Formula I by injection into a joint or synovial fluid of a patient.

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b a CH c an OH and d NHR wherein R is either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms 

A comprises one of a CR R b NR wherein R and R are the same or different and are either a H or an alkyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms c a sulfur S and d an oxygen O 

wherein the five membered ring has a side chain attached at position 6 and optionally includes wherein the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 independently have attached thereto either a one hydrogen atom or b an alkyl group having from one to six carbon atoms and combinations thereof and

Rcomprises one of a a hydrogen H b CH c trifluoromethyl d difluoromethyl e monofluoromethyl f methyl ketone g trifluoromethyl ketone h difluoromethyl ketone i monofluoromethyl ketone j formyl k methyl alcohol l methylamine or m a bond 

Another embodiment of this invention provides the compound of Formula II comprising wherein the side chain has one or more carbon to carbon double or triple bonds between the carbon atoms of C . In another embodiment of this invention the compound of Formula II comprises wherein the side chain comprises zero or one or more double bonds comprising E isomers and Z isomers. Another embodiment provides the compound of Formula II comprising one of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate thereof. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula II is also provided. Other preferred embodiments of the present invention provide for methods as described herein for treating cancer selectively targeting cancerous cells via the proton coupled folate transporter folate receptor alpha and or folate receptor beta pathways inhibiting GARFTase in cancerous cells and selectively targeting activated macrophages in a patient having an autoimmune disease employing the compound of Formula II as the preferred tautomer provided by the compound of Formula I.

While the Formula II shows attachments of the five membered ring of the side chain to be at the 2 and 5 positions numbering clockwise with B being at position 1 the substituents attached to the five membered ring of the side chain may be at various positions including for example at the 2 and 3 positions at the 2 and 4 positions at the 3 and 4 positions and at the 3 and 5 positions.

As used herein the term patient means members of the animal kingdom including but not limited to human beings. As used herein the term having cancer means that the patient has been diagnosed with cancer.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of any of the present compounds required to bring about a desired effect in a patient. The desired effect will vary depending on the illness being treated. For example the desired effect may be reducing tumor size destroying cancerous cells and or preventing metastasis any one of which may be the desired therapeutic response. On its most basic level a therapeutically effective amount is that amount needed to inhibit the mitosis of a cancerous cell.

Compounds of the present invention covered under Formula I or II and pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs solvates or hydrates thereof may also be administered with one or more additional treatment agents i.e. a chemotherapeutic agent. Suitable candidates for the additional chemotherapeutic agent include for example but are not limited to paclitaxel docetaxel vinca alkaloids colchicines colcemid cisplatin and nocadazol.

As used herein the term lower alkyl group refers to those lower alkyl groups having one to about ten carbon atoms such as for example methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclopropylmethyl or cyclobutylmethyl groups. Alkyl groups sharing one to about six carbon atoms are preferred. These lower alkyl groups are straight chain branched chain or cyclic alicyclic hydrocarbon arrangements. The carbon atoms of these straight chain branched chain or cyclic arranged alkyl groups may have one or more substituents for the hydrogens attached to the carbon atoms.

As used herein the term heteroalkyl refers to alkyl chains from one to about 3 atoms where one or more of the carbons has been replaced with nitrogen oxygen or sulfur Thus heteroalkyl groups will include for example C C N C S S C C O C C O O C N C C N C C and other various combinations as will be apparent to one skilled in the art. The above list is not meant to be exhaustive and many combinations are contemplated as within the scope of the present invention.

The term aryl groups as used herein refers to compounds whose molecules have an aromatic ring structure such as the six carbon ring of benzene or multiple rings which are either fused or unfused such as condensed six carbon rings of other aromatic derivatives. The term aryl is also defined to include diaryl triaryl and polyaryl groups which would have two three or more rings respectively. Thus suitable aryl groups would include for example phenyl biphenyl naphthyl phenanthrene anthracene groups and aryl oxyaryl groups. This list is not meant to be exhaustive and any aryl group as these terms are defined above and commonly understood in the art are within the scope of the present invention.

The term heteroaryl refers to aromatic ring structures having at least one atom in the ring which is not carbon such as oxygen nitrogen or sulfur. Heteroaryls as used herein also refers to aromatic ring structures that are part of larger ring structures such as two or three member ring systems which may be fused or unfused in which one of the rings is as described above. Thus heteroaryl refers to ring systems in which one or more rings contain a heteroatom and one or more rings do not. It will be understood that this list is not meant to be exhaustive and that any heteroaryl group as these terms are defined above and commonly understood in the art are within the scope of the present invention. The heteroaryl ring systems may be fused ring systems or unfused. Examples of heteroaryl ring systems include for example but are not limited to pyridine quinoline isoquinoloine pyrrole thiophenes furans imidazoles and the like as well as fused ring structures having rings of different sizes such as benzofurans indoles purines and the like.

Also included within the scope of the present invention are alicyclic groups as that term is understood in the art and heterocyclic groups. As used herein the term heterocyclic group refers to non aromatic cyclic substituents in which one or more members of the ring is not carbon for example oxygen sulfur or nitrogen.

The terms alkylaryl or alkaryl or alkylheteroaryl as used herein refer to groups having an alkyl moiety attached to an aryl or heteroaryl ring. The alkyl moiety is preferably a straight branched or cyclic alkyl group having one to about six carbon atoms. This alkyl moiety may also contain oxygen nitrogen or sulfur and therefore may be an alkoxy group. The aryl or heteroaryl moiety of the alkylaryl group is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl or heteroaryl group as these terms are described above. As used herein the terms alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl will also be used to refer to arylalkyl groups or heteroarylalkyl groups as those terms are understood in the art and denotes attachment of such a substituent at either the alkyl or the aryl portion of the group. Thus for example a benzyl group would be embraced by the term alkylaryl .

Any of the cyclic substituents described above such as the aryl heteroaryl alkylaryl alkylheteroaryl alicyclic or heterocyclic groups are optionally substituted with one or more substituents as listed above. In the case of more than one substituent the substituents are independently selected. Alkoxy groups and alkyl groups include straight or branched chains having up to about ten members. Halogen refers to chlorine bromine iodine and fluorine. Aryl and heteroaryl groups are as described above. When a carboxylic acid is a substituent it will be appreciated that the moiety represents an acid such as benzoic acid. As used herein the term heterocycloaryl carbonyl L glutamate group may include for example a thiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a furan carbonyl L glutamate group a pyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group and a pyridine carbonyl L glutamate group and the term heterocycloalkyl carbonyl L glutamate group may include for example a dihydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrothiophene carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydrofuran carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a tetrahydropyrrole carbonyl L glutamate group a monohydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group a dihydropyridyl carbonyl L glutamate group and a piperidyl carbonyl L glutamate group and stereoisomers thereof as those terms are understood by one skilled in the art.

As used herein the terms aroyl or heteroaroyl such as when used within the term p aroyl L glutamate refers to benzoyl napthoyl thiophenoyl furophenoyl pyrroyl and any other aroyl or heteroaroyl as these terms are understood by one skilled in the art. Aroyl and heteroaroyl are generally defined in the art as an aromatic or heteroaromatic compound having a carbonyl moiety. As used herein the term glutamate will be understood as representing both the ester form glutamate and the acid form glutamic acid .

Those skilled in the art shall understand that chemical structure of Formula II is a preferred example of this invention and that Formula II is a tautomer of an embodiment of a compound of Formula I. Those skilled in the art understand that chemical structures are often drawn as one tautomeric form over another. This invention provides for several tautomeric forms as covered by the description of Formula I. The tautomeric forms taught by Formula I provide several structural embodiments that will be appreciated by those skilled in the art such as for example the compounds having Formula II.

Proliferative diseases and or disorders that may be treated according to the methods of the present invention include without limitation ovarian cancer endometrial and cervical cancer renal cancer and breast cancer and autoimmune diseases such as for example rheumatoid arthritis.

It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the patients being treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity or effective amount of a compound of the present invention to produce the desired effect in association with a pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on the particular compound and the particular effect or therapeutic response that is desired to be achieved.

Compounds of Formula I or II or pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs solvates or hydrates thereof can be administered to a patient an animal or human via various routes including parenterally orally or intraperitoneally. Parenteral administration includes the following routes that are outside the alimentary canal digestive tract intravenous intramuscular interstitial intraarterial subcutaneous intraocular intracranial intraventricular intrasynovial transepithelial including transdermal pulmonary via inhalation ophthalmic sublingual and buccal topical including dermal ocular rectal or nasal inhalation via insufflation or nebulization. Specific modes of administration shall depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen is to be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of compound to be administered is that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be administered to a patient shall depend on the characteristics of the patient being treated including for example but not limited to the patient s age weight health and types and frequency of concurrent treatment if any of any other chemotherapeutic agent s all of which is determined by the clinician as one skilled in the art.

Compounds of Formula I or II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate thereof that are orally administered can be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. Compounds also can be incorporated with an excipient and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules sachets lozenges elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. Compounds of Formula I or II can be in the form of a powder or granule a solution or suspension in an aqueous liquid or non aqueous liquid or in an oil in water emulsion.

The tablets troches pills capsules and the like also can contain for example a binder such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch gelating excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate a sweetening agent such as sucrose lactose or saccharin or a flavoring agent. When the dosage unit form is a capsule it can contain in addition to the materials described above a liquid carrier. Various other materials can be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For example tablets pills or capsules can be coated with shellac sugar or both. A syrup or elixir can contain the active compound sucrose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring. Any material used in preparing any dosage unit form should be pharmaceutically pure and substantially non toxic. Additionally the compounds of Formulas I II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate of Formulas I or II can be incorporated into sustained release preparations and formulations.

The compounds of Formula I II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug solvate or hydrate thereof can be administered to the central nervous system parenterally or intraperitoneally. Solutions of the compound as a free base or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can be prepared in water mixed with a suitable surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions also can be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations can contain a preservative and or antioxidants to prevent the growth of microorganisms or chemical degeneration.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include without limitation sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It can be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi.

Compounds of the present invention may be contained within mixed with or associated with a suitable acceptable pharmaceutical carrier for administration to a patient according to the particular route of administration desired. Suitable or acceptable pharmaceutical carriers refer to any pharmaceutical carrier that will solubilize the compounds of the present invention and that will not give rise to incompatibility problems and includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic agents absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such suitable or acceptable pharmaceutical carriers are well known by those skilled in the art. Preferred carriers include sterile water physiologic saline and five percent dextrose in water. Examples of other suitable or acceptable pharmaceutical carriers include but are not limited to ethanol polyol such as propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol suitable mixtures thereof or vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of a dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and anti fungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars or sodium chloride.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating a compound of Formula I or II in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the sterilized compound of Formula I or II into a sterile vehicle that contains the basic dispersion medium and any of the other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying.

Pharmaceutical compositions which are suitable for administration to the nose and buccal cavity include without limitation self propelling and spray formulations such as aerosol atomizers and nebulizers.

The therapeutic compounds of Formula I or II as described herein can be administered to a patient alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or as pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or hydrates thereof the proportion of which is determined by the solubility and chemical nature of the compound chosen route of administration to the patient and standard pharmaceutical practice.

The present invention is more particularly described in the following non limiting examples which are intended to be illustrative only as numerous modifications and variations therein will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Compounds AAG154353 AAG154360 AAG154489 and AAG154468 are potent inhibitors of KB human tumor cells known to express high levels of folate receptor alpha FR with values of 0.25 3.4 0.3 and 122 nM respectively see . In addition the compounds are potently inhibitory against RT16 cells that express FR and D4 cells that express folate receptor beta FR . All the compounds as anticipated were inactive against cells engineered to lack FR or FR such as PC43 only RFC and R2 cells that lack FR or as well as RFC. These results show that compounds AAG154353 AAG154360 AAG145489 and AAG154468 are selectively inhibitory only against cells and tumor cells that express FRs.

Inhibitory effects of AAG154353 and AAG154360 as examples of the heteroaroyl side chain analogs of the compounds of the present invention of Formula I on RFC transport and FR binding were also evaluated. The PC43 cells RFC containing cells that express RFC only were used and the ability of the compounds to inhibit H MTX methotrexate uptake. Both example compounds AAG154353 and AAG154360 had very poor inhibitory activity 

SCID female mice bearing advanced stage human KB cervical tumors as xenografts xenograft tumors were administered compound AAG154353 of the present invention intravenously at various doses and schedules.

Mice were maintained on a Folic Acid deficient diet Harlan Teklad Diet 00434 Madison Wis. exclusively for approximately three weeks at the start of treatment. Three mice bearing late stage KB tumor xenografts 446 to 650 mg at the start of treatment were each treated on various dose schedules with AAG154353 IV. In all three cases tumors regressed completely. Thus significant antitumor activity was detected. Toxicity as reflected in weight loss was modest.

Description of FR and Human Proton Coupled Folate Transporter hPCFT Studies with Pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine Antifolates

Folate receptor studies Following the inventors initial studies of pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine antifolates with 1 or 3 to 6 carbon bridge substitutions as represented by Compound AAG120366 2 structure shown in to identify FR targeted agents with low level transport by human reduced folate carrier hRFC Deng et al. 2008 we tested compounds of Formula I of the present invention namely Example compounds AAG154353 and AAG154360 each having a thienoyl side chain in KB human tumor cells see Table 1 . The compounds AAG154353 and AAG154360 were initially tested for their growth inhibitory effects against KB human tumor cells which express FR alpha and hRFC but insignificant levels human proton coupled folate transporter hPCFT using a fluorescence based Cell Titer blue cytotoxicity screen. In KB cells IC50s of 0.25 and 3.4 nM were measured from compounds AAG154353 and AAG154360. FR targeted activity by AAG154353 and AAG154360 was confirmed by co treatments with folic acid 200 nM which completely reversed growth inhibition of these agents. AAG154353 and AAG154360 were also tested in isogenic Chinese hamster ovary CHO sublines engineered to express human FR RT16 or hRFC PC43 10 . For PC43 10 results were compared to those for hRFC and FR null R2CHO cells from which they were derived whereas those for RT16 cells were compared to those for a parallel incubation in the presence of an elevated concentration of folic acid as with the KB cells. AAG154353 and AAG154360 showed a high level of FR targeted activity toward RT16 cells. Neither AAG154353 and AAG154360 showed appreciable growth inhibition of hRFC expressing PC43 10 cells. These results are summarized in Table 1.

Following reports of a novel pH transporter termed PCFT in the proximal small intestine and possibly solid tumors the inventors established an expression profile of this transporter compared to hRFC and FR in a wide range of cell lines derived from human solid tumors and leukemias. mRNA levels for hPCFT hRFC and FR were measured by real time RT PCR qPCR and normalized to levels of glyceraldyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase. Results shown in clearly demonstrate appreciable hPCFT transcripts in a large number of human solid tumor cell lines of different origins e.g. breast prostate ovarian etc. and uniformly low level hPCFT in human leukemias. hPCFT levels were highest in SKOV3 ovarian HepG2 hepatoma HeLa cervical and T47D breast cancer cells. hRFC transcripts were detected in all cell lines with exception of HeLa R5 and MDA MB 231 both documented to express low to undetectable hRFC . FR was only detected in a small subset of ovarian cervical and breast cell lines inset . sets forth hRFC and hPCFT transcript levels in solid tumor and leukemia cell lines. Transcripts levels were measured by qPCR from total RNAs using a Roche 480 Lightcycler and Sybr Green1 detection. hRFC hPCFT transcript levels were normalized to GAPDH transcripts. The inset black bars shows results for solid tumors in which FR alpha transcripts could be detected. FR alpha could not be detected in the remaining solid tumors and all of the leukemia cells. The tumor types for the solid tumors shown in are as follows DU 145 PC 3 prostate UCVA 1 pancreas SKOV3 Ovcar 3 Igrov 1 ovary HTB139 muscle H2591 MET5A H2452 H2313 mesothelioma SK MEL 28 melanoma HepG2 hepatoma HT1080 fibrosarcoma Y79 eye SW 620 HCG 116 colon HeLa R5 KB cervical T 47D MDA MB435 MDA MB231 MCF 7 breast SK N MC brain and HTB166 TE 85 bone .

To study the functional and biochemical properties of hPCFT the inventors prepared a myc his6 tagged hPCFT hPCFT cDNA construct by RT PCR from RNA prepared from wild type wt HeLa cells. hPCFT in pcDNA3.1 plasmid was transiently expressed in R5 HeLa cells expresses some low level of hPCFT and assayed for hPCFTprotein on westerns with Myc specific antibody and transport activity at pH 5.5 for comparison with mock vector control transfected R5 cells upper panel . To generate stable transfectants PCFT and RFC null R2 CHO cells were electroporated with the hPCFT pcDNA3.1 construct. Cells were selected with G418 and screened for hPCFTprotein. The best clone designated R2 hPCFT 4 was further characterized lower panel . A high level of hPCFTprotein was detected on Western blots westerns accompanying significant H Mtx transport at pH 5.5. Transport was negligible at pH 7.2 7.4 not shown . For hRFC expressing pC43 10 cells H MTX transport was active at pH 7.2 7.4 but was undetectable at pH 5.5 data not shown . shows transfection of HeLa R5 and CHO R2 Cells with hPCFTMyc his10. Cells were transfected with hPCFTMyc his6 either transiently HeLa or stably R2 . PCFTMyc His10 protein was measured on westerns with Myc specific antibody insets and hPCFT activity was measured in MES buffered saline at pH 5.5 with 1 micromolar 3H Mtx as substrate.

In growth inhibition assays the inventors found that sensitivities to assorted classical antifolates including methotrexate MTX GW1843U89 lometrexol pemetrexed PT523 and raltitrexed for hPCFT expressing R2 hPCFT 4 cells and hRFC expressing pC43 10 cells were all increased 4 to 8 fold and 10 to 150 fold respectively in comparison with vector control R2 cells Tables 1 and 2 . Thus even at the relatively neutral pH 7.2 of tissue culture media classical antifolates appear to be substrates for hPCFT as reflected in patterns of growth inhibition in the hPCFT transfected and mock transfected CHO cells. By comparing results with R2 hPCFT 4 and pC43 10 cells only the antifolate PT523 was completely selective in its effects toward hRFC over hPCFT whereas none of these agents showed significant selectivity toward hPCFT over hRFC.

The compounds of Formula I of the present invention for example have structures with modifications in several regions including but not limited to the pteridine moeity the carbon bridge region of the side chain the p aminobenzoic acid or terminal glutamate and combinations thereof. For example by standard growth inhibition assays we identified a novel 6 substituted pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine antifolate namely AAG154353 with striking sensitivity toward R2 hPCFT 4 cells 20 to 30 fold greater than those for vector control R2 cells Table 2 and a nearly complete lack of drug activity toward hRFC expressing pC43 10 cells Table 1 . Specificity for hPCFT over hRFC was further suggested by assays of direct competition with H MTX for cellular uptake by R2 hPCFT 4 . In both transport and cytotoxicity experiments compound AAG154353 exhibited potencies similar to that for pemetrexed the best substrate yet described for hPCFT. However the hRFC substrate PT523 was completely inert in inhibiting cell proliferation or H MTX uptake with R2 hPCFT 4 cells. In contrast to pemetrexed compound AAG154353 showed negligible inhibition of H MTX transport from hRFC in pC43 10 cells at pH 7.2 7.4 not shown .

Compound AAG120366 2 was previously reported by this applicant to potently inhibit GARFTase the first folate dependent step in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway Deng et al. 2008 . To localize the probable enzyme target s for compound AAG154353 we tested the growth inhibitory effects of this compounds toward KB in the presence of adenosine 60 M or thymidine 10 M . Thymidine 10 M did not alter the growth inhibitory effects of AAG154353 whereas adenosine 60 M was completely protective thus establishing the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway as the primary target. Compound AAG154353 was completely protected by 5 amino 4 imidazolecarboxamide AICA 320 M which identified GARFTase as the likely intracellular target. We used in vitro and in situ GARFTase inhibition assays with antifolate analogs to confirm inhibitions of this enzyme target. With the purified recombinant mouse GARFTase compounds AAG154353 and AAG154360 were inhibitory with IC50s of 0.06 M and 3.31 M respectively Table 1 . In the in situ GARFTase assay incorporation of C glycine into formyl glycinamide ribonucleotide was measured and was inhibited at nM concentrations of the drugs with the most potent effects by inhibitor AAG154353 Table 1 . The dramatic differences in inhibition potencies by in situ versus in vitro assays of GARFTase for all these agents likely reflect an exacerbation of enzyme binding affinities by drug polyglutamates within cells.

Our results establish a high frequency of expression of hPCFT in solid tumors over leukemias. hRFT is expressed in both solid tumors and leukemias whereas FR is expressed exclusively in a subset of solid tumors. Our results with compound AAG154353 are unprecedented in that they are the first to exhibit a unique and selective binding to FR and hPCFT over hRFC that results in a potent growth inhibition even at physiologic pH. Given the acidic pH optimum for hPCFT pH 5.5 6.8 these growth inhibitory effects are clearly exascerbated at lower pH values 6.5 6.8 as occurs for example in a solid tumor environment. Indeed our initial studies over a range of pH values establish a 2 3 fold increased inhibition of hPCFT transport at acid ph7 conditions.

The development of novel small molecule cytotoxins such as the compounds of Formula I of the present invention that are selectively transported by hPCFT provide exciting new therapeutic applications for solid tumor targeting. This is based on the notion of effectively highjacking an essential biological characteristic of solid tumors namely their acidic microenvironment for selective delivery of the cytotoxic compounds of the present invention.

All evaporations were carried out in vacuo with a rotary evaporator. Analytical samples were dried in a CHEM DRY vacuum 0.2 mm Hg drying oven over PO. Melting points were determined on a MELTEMP II melting point apparatus with FLUKE 51K J electronic thermometer and are uncorrected. NMR spectra for proton H were recorded on a Bruker WH 300 300 MHz spectrometer. The chemical shift values are expressed in ppm parts per million relative to tetramethylsilane as internal standard s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet m multiplet br broad singlet. The relative integrals of peak areas agreed with those expected for the assigned structures. Thin layer chromatography TLC was performed on PE SIL G UV silica gel plates with fluorescent indicator and the spots were visualized under 254 and 365 nm illumination. Proportions of solvents used for TLC are by volume. Column chromatography was performed on 230 400 mesh silica gel purchased from Fisher Somerville N.J. Elemental analyses were performed by Atlantic Microlab Inc. Norcross Ga. Element compositions are within 0.4 of the calculated values. Fractional moles of water or organic solvents frequently found in some analytical samples of antifolates were not prevented despite 24 48 h of drying in vacuo and were confirmed where possible by their presence in the H NMR spectra. High resolution mass spectrometry HRMS was performed on a Waters Q TOF API US by Department of Chemistry University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pa. All solvents and chemicals were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. and Fisher Scientific and were used as received.

To 1a c 10 mmol in a 250 mL flask were added oxalyl chloride 7.61 g 60 mmol and anhydrous CHCl 20 mL . The resulting solution was refluxed for 1 h and then cooled to room temperature. After evaporating the solvent under reduced pressure the residue 2a c were dissolved in 20 mL of EtO. The resulting solution was added drop wise to an ice cooled diazomethane generated in situ from 15 g diazald by using Aldrich Mini Diazald Apparatus in an ice bath over 10 min. The resulting mixture was allowed to stand for 30 min and then stirred for an additional 1 h. To this solution was added 48 HBr 20 mL . The resulting mixture was refluxed for 1.5 h. After cooling to room temperature the organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer extracted with EtO 200 mL 2 . The combined organic layer and EtO extract was washed with two portions of 10 NaCOsolution and dried over NaSO. Evaporation of the solvent afforded 4a c in 94 yield. To a suspension of 2 6 diaminopyrimidin 4 one 1.26 g 10 mmol in anhydrous DMF 25 mL was added 4a c about 9.4 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred under Nat room temperature for 3 days. After evaporation of solvent under reduced pressure MeOH 20 mL was added followed by silica gel 5 g . The resulting plug was loaded on to a silica gel column 3.5 12 cm and eluted with CHClfollowed by 3 MeOH in CHCland then 5 MeOH in CHCl. Fractions with an R 0.58 TLC were pooled and evaporated to afford 5a c as white powder.

Compound 5a was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 5a c from pent 4 ynoic acid 1a 0.98 g 10 mmol to give 1.4 g 74 of 5a as white powder. mp 230 231 C. H NMR DMSO d 2.41 2.45 m 2H 2.64 2.67 m 2H 2.77 t J 2 Hz 1H 5.93 s 1H 5.98 s 2H 10.13 s 1H 10.81 s 1H . HRMS calcd for CHNO M 203.0933. found 203.0925.

Compound 5b was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 5a c from hex 5 ynoic acid 1b 1.12 g 10 mmol to give 1.1 g 51 of 5b as white powder. mp 233 234 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.64 1.79 m 2H 2.14 2.20 m 2H 2.58 2.61 t J 10 Hz 2H 2.80 2.82 t J 3.2 Hz 1H 5.95 s 1H 6.53 s 2H 10.70 s 1H 11.14 s 1H .

Compound 5c was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 5a c from hept 6 ynoic acid 1c 1.26 g 10 mmol to give 1.43 g 62 of 5c as white powder. mp 236 237 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.40 1.47 m 2H 1.52 1.67 m 2H 2.13 2.17 m 2H 2.46 m 2H 2.75 2.77 m 1H 5.87 s 1H 6.16 s 2H 10.31 s 1H 10.90 s 1H .

To a 250 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer and gas inlet were added a mixture of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 185 mg 0.16 mmol triethylamine 1.01 g 10 mmol S 2 5 bromo thiophene 2 carbonyl amino pentanedioic acid diethyl ester 9 588 mg 1.5 mmol and anhydrous DMF 20 mL . To the stirred mixture under N was added copper I iodide 30 mg 0.16 mmol and 5a c 1 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight 17 18 h . After evaporation of solvent under reduced pressure MeOH 20 mL was added followed by silica gel 5 g . The resulting plug was loaded on to a silica gel column 3.5 12 cm and eluted with CHClfollowed by 3 MeOH in CHCland then 5 MeOH in CHCl. Fractions with an R 0.53 TLC were pooled and evaporated to afford 6a c as brown powder.

Compound 6a was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 6a c from 5a 202 mg 1 mmol to give 386 mg 75 of 6a as brown powder. mp 81 82 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.16 1.21 m 6H 1.93 2.15 m 2H 2.40 2.45 t J 10 Hz 2H 3.06 3.15 m 4H 4.01 4.15 m 4H 4.35 4.43 m 1H 6.00 s 1H 6.04 s 2H 7.22 7.23 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.77 7.78 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.83 8.85 d J 10 Hz 1H 10.18 s 1H 10.89 s 1H . HRMS calcd for CHNOS M 514.1760. found 514.1753.

Compound 6b was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 6a c from 5b 216 mg 1 mmol to give 380 mg 72 of 6b as brown powder. mp 84 85 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.16 1.20 m 6H 1.81 1.90 m 2H 1.92 2.13 m 2H 2.40 2.45 t J 10 Hz 2H 2.46 m 2H 2.59 2.64 t J 9.6 Hz 2H 4.00 4.14 m 4H 4.35 4.43 m 1H 5.91 s 1H 5.99 s 2H 7.24 7.25 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.77 7.78 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.82 8.84 d J 10 Hz 1H 10.14 s 1H 10.86 s 1H .

Compound 6c was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 6a c from 5c 230 mg 1 mmol to give 396 mg 73 of 6c as brown powder. mp 85 86 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.13 1.19 m 6H 1.48 1.57 m 2H 1.62 1.71 m 2H 1.91 2.12 m 2H 2.39 2.43 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.46 2.48 m 4H 4.00 4.12 m 4H 4.34 4.40 m 1H 5.87 s 1H 5.96 s 2H 7.23 7.24 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.75 7.76 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.80 8.82 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 10.12 s 1H 10.81 s 1H .

To a Parr flask were added 6a c 0.75 mmol 10 palladium on activated carbon 120 mg and MeOH 100 mL . Hydrogenation was carried out at 55 psi of Hfor 4 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through Celite washed with MeOH 100 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 7a c as yellow powder.

Compound 7a was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 7a c from 6a 386 mg 0.75 mmol to give 369 mg 95 of 7a as yellow powder. mp 74 75 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.13 1.20 m 6H 1.62 m 4H 1.89 2.13 m 2H 2.39 2.44 t J 10 Hz 2H 2.69 m 2H 2.81 m 2H 4.00 4.13 m 4H 4.34 4.42 m 1H 5.85 s 1H 5.97 s 2H 6.88 6.89 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 7.67 7.68 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 8.60 8.63 d J 10 Hz 1H 10.13 s 1H 10.81 s 1H . HRMS calcd for CHNOS M 518.2073. found 518.2077.

Compound 7b was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 7a c from 6b 380 mg 0.72 mmol to give 360 mg 94 of 7b as yellow powder. mp 77 78 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.12 1.21 m 8H 1.53 1.67 m 4H 1.91 2.14 m 2H 2.39 2.43 t J 10 Hz 2H 2.46 m 2H 2.77 2.82 t J 9.6 Hz 2H 4.00 4.14 m 4H 4.33 4.41 m 1H 5.84 s 1H 5.97 s 2H 6.88 6.89 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 7.68 7.69 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 8.60 8.63 d J 10 Hz 1H 10.12 s 1H 10.79 s 1H .

Compound 7c was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 7a c from 6c 396 mg 0.73 mmol to give 379 mg 94 of 7c as yellow powder. mp 78 79 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.15 1.19 m 6H 1.23 1.31 m 4H 1.47 1.68 m 4H 1.90 2.14 m 2H 2.37 2.48 m 6H 4.02 4.12 m 4H 4.33 4.41 m 1H 5.84 s 1H 5.96 s 2H 7.08 7.09 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.78 7.79 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.72 8.74 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 10.11 s 1H 10.79 s 1H .

General Procedure for the Synthesis of Target Compounds AAG154353 AAG154360 AAG154484 AAG154468 AAG154479 AAG154489 and AAG154485

To a solution of 7a c 0.7 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added 1 N NaOH 10 mL and the mixture was stirred under Nat room temperature for 16 h. TLC showed the disappearance of the starting material R 0.45 and one major spot at the origin MeOH CHCl1 5 . The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in water 10 mL the resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath and the pH was adjusted to 3 4 with drop wise addition of 1 N HCl. The resulting suspension was frozen in a dry ice acetone bath thawed to 4 5 C. in the refrigerator and filtered. The residue was washed with a small amount of cold water and dried in vacuum using POto afford the target compounds as white powder.

Compound AAG154353 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 7a 369 mg 0.71 mmol to give 312 mg 95 of AAG154353 as white powder. mp 179 180 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.62 m 4H 1.91 2.05 m 2H 2.31 2.36 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.69 m 2H 2.81 m 2H 4.29 4.43 m 1H 5.87 s 1H 6.10 s 2H 6.87 6.88 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.67 7.68 d J 4 Hz 1H 8.49 8.52 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.26 s 1H 10.88 s 1H 12.42 br 2H . HRMS calcd for CHNOS M 462.1447. found 462.1462.

Compound AAG154360 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 7b 360 mg 0.68 mmol to give 306 mg 95 of AAG154360 as white powder. mp 181 182 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.28 1.34 m 2H 1.54 1.66 m 4H 1.85 2.10 m 2H 2.30 2.34 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.43 2.47 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.76 2.80 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 4.29 4.43 m 1H 5.83 s 1H 5.95 s 2H 6.86 6.87 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.66 7.67 d J 4 Hz 1H 8.49 8.51 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.11 s 1H 10.78 s 1H 12.32 br 2H . HRMS calcd for CHNOS M 476.1604. found 476.1617.

Compound AAG154484 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 7c 379 mg 0.69 mmol to give 322 mg 95 of AAG154484 as white powder. mp 183 184 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.27 1.35 m 2H 1.44 1.67 m 6H 1.87 2.10 m 2H 2.31 2.35 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.37 2.44 m 4H 4.30 4.38 m 1H 5.84 s 1H 5.95 s 2H 7.07 7.08 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.77 7.78 d J 4 Hz 1H 8.60 8.62 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.12 s 1H 10.79 s 1H 12.46 br 2H . Anal. CHNOS C H N S. calcd for CHNOS.1HO C 52.06 H 5.64 N 16.69 S 6.32. Found C 52.39 H 5.24 N 13.30 S 5.98.

Compound AAG154484 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 6a 50 mg 0.1 mmol to give 42 mg 95 of AAG154468 as white powder. mp 196 197 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.85 2.11 m 2H 2.31 2.36 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.76 m 4H 4.30 4.38 m 1H 5.92 s 1H 5.99 s 2H 7.20 7.21 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.74 7.75 d J 4 Hz 1H 8.69 8.71 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.15 s 1H 10.86 s 1H 12.47 br 2H . HRMS calcd for CHNOS M 458.1134. found 458.1155.

Compound AAG154479 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 6c 50 mg 0.09 mmol to give 43 mg 95 of AAG154479 as white powder. mp 197 198 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.44 1.67 m 4H 1.87 2.10 m 2H 2.23 2.45 m 4H 4.30 4.38 m 1H 5.87 s 1H 5.95 s 2H 7.21 7.22 d J 4 Hz 1H 7.73 7.74 d J 4 Hz 1H 8.66 8.68 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.12 s 1H 10.81 s 1H 12.58 br 2H . HRMS calcd for CHNOS M 486.1447. found 486.1452.

Compound 10 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 6a c from 5a 202 mg 1 mmol to give 249 mg 50 of 10 as brown powder. mp 78 79 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.14 1.18 m 6H 1.92 2.14 m 2H 2.35 2.39 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.77 2.80 m 4H 3.99 4.11 m 4H 4.35 4.42 m 1H 5.99 s 1H 6.00 s 2H 6.78 6.79 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.14 7.15 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.71 8.73 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 10.15 s 1H 10.88 s 1H .

Compound 11 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of 7a c from 10 249 mg 0.5 mmol to give 231 mg 92 of 11 as yellow powder. mp 71 72 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.14 1.18 m 6H 1.60 1.65 m 4H 1.94 2.10 m 2H 2.36 2.39 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.65 2.68 m 4H 4.00 4.11 m 4H 4.34 4.40 m 1H 5.85 s 1H 5.95 s 2H 6.25 6.26 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.05 7.06 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.43 8.45 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 10.10 s 1H 10.80 s 1H .

Compound AAG154489 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 11 231 mg 0.46 mmol to give 194 mg 95 of AAG154489 as white powder. mp 174 175 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.62 m 4H 1.87 2.10 m 2H 2.28 2.32 t J 8 Hz 2H 2.65 2.68 m 4H 4.29 4.43 m 1H 5.86 s 1H 5.95 s 2H 6.25 6.26 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.04 7.05 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.29 8.31 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.12 s 1H 10.80 s 1H 12.47 br 2H . Anal. CHNO C H N. calcd for CHNO.1.25 HO C 51.33 H 5.49 N 14.62. Found C 51.34 H 5.36 N 14.62.

Compound AAG154485 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of target compounds from 10 50 mg 0.1 mmol to give 42 mg 95 of AAG154485 as white powder. mp 193 194 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.88 2.11 m 2H 2.28 2.32 t J 8 Hz 2H 2.78 2.80 m 4H 4.30 4.38 m 1H 5.98 s 1H 5.99 s 2H 6.78 6.79 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.14 7.15 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.57 8.59 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.16 s 1H 10.88 s 1H 12.45 br 2H . HRMS calcd for CHNO M 441.1284. found 441.1286.

To a solution of 8 or 12 10 mmol in anhydrous DMF 20 mL was added N methylmorpholine 1.3 mL 18 mmol and 2 chloro 4 6 dimethoxy 1 3 5 triazine 2.16 g 18 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. To this mixture was added N methylmorpholine 1.3 mL 18 mmol and L glutamate diethyl ester hydrochloride 3.6 g 15 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 4 h at room temperature and then evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in the minimum amount of CHCl MeOH 4 1 and chromatographed on a silica gel column 2 15 cm and with 5 EtOAc in hexane as the eluent. Fractions that showed the desired spot TLC were pooled and the solvent evaporated to dryness to afford 9 and 13 in 72 yield.

Compound 9 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of compound 9 and 13 from 8 2.07 g 10 mmol to give 2.82 g 72 of 9 as yellow oil. H NMR DMSO d 1.14 1.19 m 6H 1.91 2.12 m 2H 2.39 2.42 t J 5.6 Hz 2H 4.01 4.12 m 4H 4.35 4.39 m 1H 7.30 7.31 d J 3.2 Hz 1H 7.69 7.70 d J 3.2 Hz 1H 8.81 8.82 d J 6 Hz 1H .

Compound 13 was prepared using the general method described for the preparation of compound 9 and 13 from 12 1.91 g 10 mmol to give 2.71 g 72 of 13 as yellow oil. H NMR DMSO d 1.13 1.19 m 6H 1.88 2.11 m 2H 2.37 2.41 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.00 4.12 m 4H 4.36 4.41 m 1H 6.77 6.78 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.20 7.21 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.72 8.74 d J 7.6 Hz 1H .

All evaporations were carried out in vacuo with a rotary evaporator. Analytical samples were dried in a CHEM DRY vacuum 0.2 mm Hg drying oven over PO. Melting points were determined on a MELTEMP II melting point apparatus with FLUKE 51K J electronic thermometer and are uncorrected. NMR spectra for proton H were recorded on a Bruker WH 300 300 MHz spectrometer. The chemical shift values are expressed in ppm parts per million relative to tetramethylsilane as internal standard s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet m multiplet br broad singlet. The relative integrals of peak areas agreed with those expected for the assigned structures. Thin layer chromatography TLC was performed on PE SIL G UV silica gel plates with fluorescent indicator and the spots were visualized under 254 and 365 nm illumination. Proportions of solvents used for TLC are by volume. Column chromatography was performed on 230 400 mesh silica gel purchased from Fisher Somerville N.J. Elemental analyses were performed by Atlantic Microlab Inc. Norcross Ga. Element compositions are within 0.4 of the calculated values. Fractional moles of water or organic solvents frequently found in some analytical samples of antifolates were not prevented despite 24 48 h of drying in vacuo and were confirmed where possible by their presence in the H NMR spectra. High resolution mass spectrometry HRMS was performed on a Waters Q TOF API US by Department of Chemistry University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Pa. All solvents and chemicals were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. and Fisher Scientific and were used as received.

To a 20 mL vial for microwave reaction were added a mixture of palladium chloride 57 mg 0.32 mmol triphenylphosphine 104 mg 0.32 mmol copper iodide 243 mg 1.28 mmol triethylamine 8.08 g 80 mmol 5 bromo thiophene 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester 1.77 g 8 mmol and anhydrous acetonitrile 10 mL . To the stirred mixture were added copper iodide 243 mg 1.28 mmol and but 3 yn 1 ol 1 588 mg 8.4 mmol and the vial was sealed and put into the microwave reactor at 100 C. for 10 min. After evaporation of solvent under reduced pressure MeOH 20 mL was added followed by silica gel 5 g . The resulting plug was loaded on to a silica gel column 3.5 12 cm and eluted with hexane followed by 20 EtOAc in hexane. Fractions with an R 0.42 hexane EtOAc 4 1 were pooled and evaporated to afford 1.17 g of 2 as yellow oil. H NMR DMSO d 2.59 2.63 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.56 3.59 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.81 s 3H 4.95 4.98 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.27 7.28 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 7.69 7.70 d J 4.0 Hz 1H .

To a Parr flask were added 2 1.17 g 5.6 mmol 10 palladium on activated carbon 600 mg and MeOH 100 mL . Hydrogenation was carried out at 55 psi of Hfor 4 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through Celite washed with MeOH 100 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 1.14 g of 3 as yellow oil. H NMR DMSO d 1.41 1.48 m 2H 1.61 1.68 m 2H 2.81 2.85 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.37 3.42 m 2H 3.77 s 3H 4.40 4.43 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 6.94 6.95 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.63 7.64 d J 3.6 Hz 1H .

A solution of 3 1.14 g 5.3 mmol in acetone 15 mL was added dropwise to a cold solution ice bath of CrO 3 g 30 mmol in sulfuric acid 23 mL and water 67 mL . After the addition the resulting solution was stirred in an ice bath for an additional 2 h and the solution was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. TLC indicated the disappearance of the starting alcohol and the formation of one major spot at R 0.35 hexane EtOAc 2 1 . The solution was extracted with 5 30 mL of ethyl ether and dried over NaSO. After evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure the resulting residue was flash chromatographed through silica gel column 3.5 15 cm using hexane EtOAc 2 1 as eluent. The desired fraction TLC was collected and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to afford 570 mg of 4 as colorless oil. H NMR DMSO d 1.79 1.87 m 2H 2.24 2.27 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.82 2.86 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.77 s 3H 6.95 6.96 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.63 7.64 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 12.17 br 1H . HRMS calcd for CHOS M 228.0456. found 228.0458.

To 4 570 mg 2.5 mmol in a 100 mL flask were added oxalyl chloride 1.9 g 15 mmol and anhydrous CHCl 20 mL . The resulting solution was refluxed for 1 h and then cooled to room temperature. After evaporating the solvent under reduced pressure the residue 5 was dissolved in 20 mL of EtO. The resulting solution was added dropwise to an ice cooled diazomethane generated in situ from 10 g of diazald by using Aldrich Mini Diazald Apparatus in an ice bath over 10 min. The resulting mixture was allowed to stand for 30 min and then stirred for an additional 1 h. To this solution was added 48 HBr 20 mL . The resulting mixture was refluxed for 1.5 h. After cooling to room temperature the organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer extracted with EtO 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layer and EtO extract was washed with two portions of 10 NaCOsolution and dried over NaSO. Evaporation of the solvent afforded 7 as colorless crystals. H NMR CDCl d 1.99 2.07 m 2H 2.71 2.75 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.87 2.91 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.87 s 3H 3.88 s 2H 6.81 6.82 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.64 7.65 d J 3.6 Hz 1H . HRMS calcd for CHBrOS M 303.9769. found 303.9759.

To a suspension of 2 6 diaminopyrimidin 4 one 315 mg 2.5 mmol in anhydrous DMF 15 mL was added 7 about 2.4 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred under Nat room temperature for 3 days. After evaporation of solvent under reduced pressure MeOH 20 mL was added followed by silica gel 1.5 g . The resulting plug was loaded on to a silica gel column 3.5 12 cm and eluted with CHClfollowed by 3 MeOH in CHCland then 5 MeOH in CHCl. Fractions with an R 0.56 MeOH CHCl1 5 were pooled and evaporated to afford 300 mg of 8 as white powder in 38 yield. H NMR DMSO d 1.89 1.97 m 2H 2.49 2.54 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.82 2.85 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.78 s 3H 5.89 s 1H 5.96 s 2H 6.97 6.98 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.64 7.65 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 10.13 s 1H 10.82 s 1H .

To a solution of 8 300 mg 0.9 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added 1 N NaOH 10 mL and the mixture was stirred under Nat room temperature for 16 h. TLC showed the disappearance of the starting material R 0.56 and one major spot at the origin MeOH CHCl1 5 . The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in water 10 mL the resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath and the pH was adjusted to 3 4 with dropwise addition of 1 N HCl. The resulting suspension was frozen in a dry ice acetone bath thawed to 4 5 C. in the refrigerator and filtered. The residue was washed with a small amount of cold water and dried in vacuum using POto afford 254 mg of 9 as white powder. H NMR DMSO d 1.89 1.96 m 2H 2.49 2.55 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.80 2.84 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 5.88 s 1H 5.98 s 2H 6.92 6.93 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.55 7.56 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 10.14 s 1H 10.83 s 1H 12.86 br 1H .

To a solution of 9 254 mg 0.8 mmol in anhydrous DMF 10 mL was added N methylmorpholine 145 mg 1.44 mmol and 2 chloro 4 6 dimethoxy 1 3 5 triazine 253 g 1.44 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. To this mixture were added N methylmorpholine 145 mg 1.44 mmol and L glutamate diethyl ester hydrochloride 290 mg 1.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 4 h at room temperature and then evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in the minimum amount of CHCl MeOH 4 1 and chromatographed on a silica gel column 2 15 cm and with 5 CHClin MeOH as the eluent. Fractions that showed the desired spot TLC were pooled and the solvent evaporated to dryness to afford 252 mg of 10 as yellow powder in 63 yield. H NMR DMSO d 1.14 1.21 m 6H 1.81 2.05 m 4H 2.32 2.39 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.49 2.52 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.78 2.81 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.02 4.07 m 4H 4.30 4.35 m 1H 5.88 s 1H 5.94 s 2H 6.89 6.90 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.68 7.69 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.61 8.63 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.71 s 1H 11.19 s 1H .

To a solution of 10 252 mg 0.5 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was added 1 N NaOH 10 mL and the mixture was stirred under Nat room temperature for 16 h. TLC showed the disappearance of the starting material R 0.48 and one major spot at the origin MeOH CHCl1 5 . The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in water 10 mL the resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath and the pH was adjusted to 3 4 with dropwise addition of 1 N HCl. The resulting suspension was frozen in a dry ice acetone bath thawed to 4 5 C. in the refrigerator and filtered. The residue was washed with a small amount of cold water and dried in vacuum using POto afford 212 mg 95 of AAG154544 as white powder. mp 175 176 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.88 2.10 m 4H 2.31 2.34 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.49 2.54 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.78 2.81 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.30 4.35 m 1H 5.88 s 1H 5.97 s 2H 6.89 6.90 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.68 7.69 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 8.50 8.52 d J 8 Hz 1H 10.13 s 1H 10.82 s 1H 12.42 br 2H . Anal. CHNOS C H N S. calcd for CHNOS.1HO C 49.02 H 4.98 N 15.05 S 6.89. Found C 49.22 H 4.80 N 15.03 S 6.97.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications that are within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims

