---

title: Method and handheld electronic device for detecting and providing notification of a device drop
abstract: A method and handheld electronic device for detecting and providing notification of a device drop are provided. In accordance with one embodiment, there is provided a method for providing notification of a device drop on an electronic device, the method comprising: receiving first data from a first sensor; monitoring second data from at least one of a second sensor or input device to detect one or more secondary indications of a device drop; and issuing an alert when the first data indicates a freefall event and the second data indicates at least one secondary indication of a device drop has been detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08519858&OS=08519858&RS=08519858
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08519858
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121127
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 240 573 filed Sep. 22 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 360 153 filed Jan. 27 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 044 818 the content of these documents being incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to device notification systems and more particularly to a method and handheld electronic device for detecting and providing notification of a device drop.

Handheld electronic devices are easily lost due to their small size and the variety of places and situations where such devices are carried and used. It is not uncommon for a device user to lose his or her device when it falls out of a pocket bag carrying case holster etc. Unless the device user hears the device hit the ground or feels the device slip away the device is likely to be left where it falls. While solutions exist which allow users to attempt locate lost devices these solutions are only useful after the device loss has been discovered by the user. Often significant time has past since the device has been lost and the device user can attempt to recover the device. This increases the chance that the lost device will not be recovered and inconveniences the user even when the device can be recovered due to the lost time without the device and the time and cost associated with retrieving the device or having the device delivered to the user.

Thus there remains a need for improved device notification systems and more particularly to improved methods and handheld electronic devices for detecting and providing notification of a device drop.

The present disclosure is directed to a method and handheld electronic device adapted to reduce the likelihood of a device loss by issuing an alert when the device detects conditions which indicate a loss or potential loss of the device. This allows the device user to be automatically notified when the device is initially lost which is the time at which the device is most likely to be recovered. This increases the chances of device recovery and decrease the inconvenience associated with recovering the lost device.

In accordance with one embodiment there is provided a method for providing notification of a device drop on an electronic device the method comprising receiving first data from a first sensor monitoring second data from at least one of a second sensor or input device to detect one or more secondary indications of a device drop and issuing an alert when the first data indicates a freefall event and the second data indicates at least one secondary indication of a device drop has been detected.

In accordance with another embodiment there is provided a por table electronic device comprising a processor a first sensor second sensor and input device coupled to the processor the processor being configured for receiving first data from the first sensor monitoring second data from at least one of the second sensor or input device to detect one or more secondary indications of a device drop and issuing an alert when the first data indicates a freefall event and the second data indicates at least one secondary indication of a device drop has been detected.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a computer readable medium storing instructions in the form of executable program code for causing a portable electronic device to perform the described methods.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to handheld electronic devices. Examples of handheld electronic devices include mobile communication devices such as pagers cellular phones Global Positioning System GPS navigation devices and other satellite navigation devices smart phones wireless organizers and personal digital assistants. The handheld electronic device may also be a portable electronic device without wireless communication capabilities such as handheld electronic game devices digital photograph albums and digital cameras. In some embodiments the teachings of the present disclosure could be applied to notebook computers such as wireless enabled notebook computers.

Reference is now made to which illustrates a mobile communication device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The mobile communication device is a two way communication device having at least data and possibly also voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile communication device in various embodiments the device may be a data communication device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile communication device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the device . The internal components of the device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The mobile communication device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The device may comprise a touchscreen display in some embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display screen . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile communication device is intended to operate.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software software applications comprising a drop detection module . The drop detection module may among other things be implemented through a stand alone software application or combined together in one or more of the operating system and applications . In some example embodiments the functions performed by the drop detection module may be realized as a plurality of independent elements rather than a single integrated element and any one or more of these elements may be implemented as parts of other software applications.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications may include a range of applications including for example an address book application a messaging application a calendar application and or a notepad application. In some embodiments the software applications include an email message application a push content viewing application a voice communication i.e. telephony application a map application and a media player application. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display screen according to the application.

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a navigational tool such as a clickable trackball or thumbwheel a digital camera or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory card typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access typically associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile communication device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile communication device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystems or wireless communication interfaces. The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile communication device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email message application and output to the display . A user of the mobile communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile communication device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The mobile communication device also comprises a motion detection subsystem comprising at least one motion sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The motion detection subsystem may comprise two or more motion sensors or a motion sensor and an electronic compass. The motion detection subsystem detects the motion of the mobile communication device or detects information which the motion of the mobile communication device can be determined such as acceleration using an accelerometer. In other embodiments a motion sensor other than an accelerometer could be used.

As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art an accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the mobile communication device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output and is available in one two or three axis configurations. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer. Generally two types of outputs are available depending on whether an analog or digital accelerometer used 1 an analog output requiring buffering and analog to digital A D conversion and 2 a digital output which is typically available in an industry standard interface such as an SPI Serial Peripheral Interface or I2C Inter Integrated Circuit interface. The output of an accelerometer is typically measured in terms of the gravitational acceleration constant at the Earth s surface denoted g which is approximately 9.81 m s 32.2 ft s as the standard average. The accelerometer may be of almost any type including but not limited to a capacitive piezoelectric piezoresistive or gas based accelerometer. The range of accelerometers vary up to the thousands of g s however for portable electronic devices low g accelerometers may be used. Example low g accelerometers which may be used are MEMS digital accelerometers from Analog Devices Inc. ADI Freescale Semiconductor Inc. Freescale and STMicroelectronics N.V. of Geneva Switzerland.

Referring briefly to a motion detection subsystem in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure will be described. The circuit comprises a digital 3 axis accelerometer connected to the interrupt and serial interface of a controller MCU . The controller could be the processor of the device . The operation of the controller is controlled by software which may be stored in internal memory of the controller . The operational settings of the accelerometer are controlled by the controller using control signals sent from the controller to the accelerometer via the serial interface. The controller may determine the motion detection in accordance with the acceleration measured by the accelerometer or raw acceleration data measured by the accelerometer may be sent to the processor of the device via its serial interface where motion detection is determined by the operating system or other software module . In other embodiments a different digital accelerometer configuration could be used or a suitable analog accelerometer and control circuit could be used.

Referring now to a method of detecting and providing notification of a device drop in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure will be described. illustrates example operations for performing the method. In this example embodiment the operations are carried out by the processor of the handheld electronic device under the instruction of the drop detection module . The drop detection module is a separate module in the described embodiment but in other embodiments may be part of the operating system rather than a particular application so that it can operate irrespective of any active application on the device .

In the first step the drop detection module monitors for and detects freefall events. In some embodiments this comprises monitoring the output of the three axis accelerometer and detecting an output signal indicating freefall. Freefall may be indicated by an output signal which represents a zero acceleration reading relative to gravity from each sensing axis of the accelerometer . It will be appreciated that any time there is no external force other than gravity acting on the device for example when the device is falling after being dropped the accelerometer will report zero acceleration in each of its three sensing axes.

In some embodiments the accelerometer reports three voltage signals corresponding to the acceleration detected along each sensing axis to the drop detection module . The drop detection module monitors the output of the accelerometer for a condition where each signal has a voltage within a predetermined threshold of a zero acceleration reading. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art the accelerometer is configured to output a voltage signal which represents the detected acceleration. Accelerometers measure positive and negative acceleration often measured in terms of a g scale. The voltage output of the accelerometer is scaled in accordance with its g scale or other acceleration measurement scale. A zero acceleration reading corresponds to an output signal having a voltage associated with a 0 g or no acceleration reading.

In other embodiments the accelerometer reports a single multiplexed signal corresponding to the acceleration detected along each sensing axis. The multiplexing may be performed by the accelerometer or the processor in accordance with the instructions of the operating system or drop detection module .

In yet other embodiments the accelerometer under the instruction of its onboard software reports a freefall signal to the drop detection module when the acceleration detected by all three sensing axes is within a predetermined threshold of zero acceleration. The drop detection module may monitor and detect for the freefall signal the raw output signals from the accelerometer or both.

To avoid spurious device drop events in at least some embodiments the drop detection module or the accelerometer must detected acceleration within a predetermined threshold of zero acceleration for a predetermined duration of time. The predetermined duration of time is typically in the order of a few milliseconds. The predetermined duration of time may be selected to represent a freefall and to exclude to gestures or other movements of the device which results in zero acceleration. In some embodiments the predetermined duration of time may also be selected to represent a freefall of more than a few inches to exclude shorter drops which may indicate that the device was not dropped or was not dropped in a manner which is likely to lead of a device loss e.g. the device drop was intention .

Next in step the drop detection module determines whether a secondary indication of a device drop exists. A freefall event may occur as a result of events which are not likely to lead to loss of the device . For example a user might carry the device in a bag purse or coat and drop the object carrying the device intentionally. This would likely result in a freefall event being detected. Reporting a device drop event in such circumstances would result in unneeded device drop notifications. Limiting the reporting of device drop events which occur in combination with a secondary indication of a device drop limits device drop reporting to situations in which the device has been dropped in a manner more likely to lead to a device loss.

In some embodiments the secondary indication of a device drop is the occurrence of an out of holster event. An out of holster event occurs when removal of the device from its carrying case or holster is detected. The device uses holster detection means to detect whether it is in a carrying case or holster. The terms carrying case and holster are used interchangeably in the present disclosure are intended to cover all enclosures for protecting and or carrying the device . The holster detection means may be implemented using any one or more of a number of different mechanisms. In some embodiments the holster detection means may comprise a mechanical sensor such as a depressible button on the surface of the device which is adapted to depress only when the device is held within a specifically shaped holster. In other embodiments the holster detection means may comprise an electrical sensor such as an electrical contact on the surface of the device which is adapted to close an electrical circuit when in contact with another electrical contact on the interior of a specially designed holster. In other embodiments the holster detection means may comprise a magnetically sensitive sensor as part of the device which is adapted to detect the proximity of a magnet built into a specially designed holster. Further details of an example implementation of holster proximity detection means can be found in commonly owned U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 2008 0191892 A1 published Aug. 14 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Using the out of holster event as a secondary indication of a device drop the drop detection module reports a device drop event to the operating system when an out of holster even has been detected. This excludes from reporting circumstances in which the device is stored in its carrying case or holster inside a bag purse or coat pocket which is dropped to the floor intentionally in these cases it is unlikely that the user is not aware of the drop and so it need not be reported. Instead the only events reported by the drop detection module are those where the device has fallen while out of its carrying case or holster possibly as a result of falling out of the carrying case or holster.

In some embodiments a freefall event may have to be detected more than a predetermined duration from the time an out of holster event is detected. This condition may exclude device drop events from being reported when the user drops the device while removing it from the holster. Because the user is likely to be aware of the device drop in such cases reporting a device drop event in these circumstances would result in undesired reporting of device drop events.

In other embodiments the secondary indication of a device drop may be closing of the device when the device is a flip style device or slider style device. When in the device is closed it is not in use and therefore a device drop is more likely to result in a loss of the device .

In other embodiments the secondary indication of a device drop may be a lack of activity of the device for a predetermined duration. Activity of the device may be determined by activity of the input devices selected types of communication with the wireless network e.g. sending a message or an ongoing voice call or both. Because the user is likely to be aware of the device drop when in use reporting a device drop in these circumstances would result in undesired reporting of device drop events.

In other embodiments the secondary indication of a device drop may be a spike in the magnitude e.g. an increase of at least a predetermined magnitude of the acceleration detected by the accelerometer within a predetermined duration of the freefall event. A spike in the magnitude of the detected acceleration may indicate the impact of the device . When the device hits the ground or other surface at the end of its fall this results in a rapid change in acceleration from zero to approximately 9.81 m s. The detection of an acceleration or change in acceleration which is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold within a predetermined duration of the freefall event may be used to limit device drop reporting in some embodiments. The predetermined threshold in such embodiments represents a device impact and may be calibrated to represent an acceleration or change in acceleration which is likely to represent an impact resulting from a device drop.

In other embodiments the secondary indication of a device drop may utilize a camera not shown of the device . Upon detecting a freefall by the accelerometer the camera is activated to take a series of digital images pictures e.g. snap shots of the device environment while the accelerometer detects a freefall. The series of pictures are then analyzed using digital image recognition and or other digital image analysis techniques to determine whether the images in the series change in a manner which matches one or more predetermined characteristics associated with the device being in freefall. In relatively simple embodiment a histogram or average pixel value of each image in the series could be determined by an imaging application on the device and then compared. Alternatively the first and last images in the series or other subset of images in the series could be analyzed and compared. The change in a reference value of the images which occurs over the series of images or between the first and last images of the series or subset is then compared to a predetermined threshold associated with the device being in freefall. If the reference value for comparison is greater than or equal to the predetermined threshold the device is determined to be in freefall. If the reference value is less than the predetermined threshold the device is determined not to be in freefall.

Detected changes in device environment could be due to changes in a pattern of flooring resulting from a device drop such as the pattern of floor tiles increasing in size over the series of pictures or due to an object such as a picture frame on a wall moving upwardly over the series of pictures. In contrast little or no change may be detected when the device is in its holster a pocket a purse or gym bag. The secondary indication provided by the camera may provide more accurate confirmatory device drop detection than other secondary indications such as out of holster events in some circumstances. In addition because the camera is only triggered after the accelerometer detects a freefall minimal battery power would be consumed.

The drop detection module may determine whether other secondary indications of a device drop exist in addition to or instead of an out of holster event.

Next in step the drop detection module determines if a freefall event has been detected when a secondary indication of a device drop exists e.g. when the device is out of its holster or within a predetermined duration of a secondary indication of a device drop. When this occurs the drop detection module reports a device drop event to the operating system by sending a device drop notification. When no secondary indication of a device drop exists e.g. the device was in its holster the operations end.

It will be appreciated that steps and are optional. In other embodiments the drop detection module reports a device drop event to the operating system when a freefall event is detected without considering any secondary indications of a device drop.

Next in step in response to receiving a device drop notification from the drop detection module the operating system issues an alert. The type and content of the alert may vary between different embodiments. The alert may comprise one or any combination of a visual audio and physical indication. The physical indication may be a vibration generated by a buzzer or vibrator of the device . The visual indication may be generated by the display screen a light emitting diode LED or both. The audio indication may be generated by the speaker a tone generator or both. In some embodiments the user may create a personalized audio recording or synthesized voice recoding to serve as the audio indication.

The operating system may also initiate a lost device mode which could be used to determine when to stop issuing alerts when periodic or repeating alerts are issued by the device . The lost device mode could also be used in combination with security measures as described below. In initiating the lost device mode the device may change a lost device setting or flag on the device to true. When the device is recovered and it is not in a locked mode the movement of the device and or activity via the input devices provides an indication that the device is recovered and the lost device setting is changed to false thereby terminating the lost device mode. When the device is recovered and it is in a locked mode the device user must enter a predetermined password via the input devices to unlock the device . After unlocking the lost device setting is changed to false.

In some embodiments initiating the lost device mode automatically initiates the locked mode. In other embodiments initiating the lost device mode may change the duration of a countdown timer for initiating the locked mode from an initial value to a second shorter value. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art the countdown timer may be triggered by one or more of a number of trigger conditions including inactivity for a predetermined duration for example as measured by a lack of input via the input devices loss of communication with the wireless network holstering of the device if the device is holsterable or closing of the device if the device is a flip style device or slider style device. When in the locked mode the functionality of the device is restricted. In the locked mode accepted user input may be substantially limited to answering incoming calls and the entry of the predetermined password to unlock the device typically in response to a prompt by the device.

An audio alert may be issued via the device speaker . The audio alert could be a single sound or a repeating sound. The sound emitted by the device speaker during an audio alert could be a ringtone beep or tone or a special device drop sound such as a special high volume alert sound. In some embodiments the audio alert may be periodic or repeating and increase in frequency and or volume over time. In some embodiments the device may be configured to ignore the normal audio bypass of the speaker when headphones or another earpiece is connected to issue the audio alert directly from the speaker even when headphones are connected. The audio alert should be issued at a volume sufficient for the device user to hear from a short distance. This allows the device user to hear the audio alert upon a device drop or shortly thereafter. Vibrations of a vibrator or buzzer may also create noise which may alert the device user of a device drop.

A visual alert may comprise the activation e.g. turning on of the display screen . If the display screen is an LCD screen or other display screen which comprises a backlight the backlight may be activated turned on. The display screen may be activated at a high brightness to increase the likelihood of being seen by the device user. In some embodiments the image displayed on the display screen may be selected to increase the brightness created by turning on or flashing the display screen . The visual alert may be useful in locating a lost device at night or in a dark environment. In some embodiments the display screen may be turned on and off rapidly to create a flashing effect. In some embodiments the visual alert may comprise a pattern of time varying visual effects on the display screen such as alternating low and high brightness visual patterns which could be presented in a flashing or blinking sequence. In other embodiments the visual alert may also comprise text and or graphics providing a message notifying the device user that the device has been dropped and or that the device may have been damaged. In some embodiments an LED or other notification light of the device may be activated or flashed instead of or in addition to the display screen .

The alert may also comprise sending an electronic communication via a wireless communication link. The wireless communication link may comprise the communications subsystem the short range wireless communication subsystem or both. The electronic communication may be sent in addition to or instead of a visual audio or physical indication. The communication may be an email message text message e.g. Short Message Service SMS message Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message instant messaging IM message voice message e.g. a device lost message which may be pre recorded or generated via text to speech synthesis based on for example the device location as described below or other electronic communication. The communication is sent from the device to one or more recipients via the wireless network . More than one type of communication may be sent in some embodiments.

The communication may be sent to one or more designated addresses depending on the type of communication. For example in some embodiments when an email message is sent one or more secondary email addresses may be designated to receive the communication rather than the primary email address assigned to the device for example by the wireless carrier. The secondary email addresses may include the address for the device user s home email account when the device belongs to the user s employer and include the address for device user s work email account when the device is the user s personal device. The secondary email addresses may include the email address for an IT administrator for example of the user s employer when the device is a work device. Because the email account s associated with the device may be accessible via other means for example from the device user s home and or work computer the communication could be sent to the primary email address of the device in addition to the secondary email address. The address could also be telephone numbers for SMS MMS or voice messages or uniform resource locators URLs for other electronic communications such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP communications.

Depending on the type of electronic communication in some embodiments the electronic communication may comprise text graphics digital image s voice data or any combination thereof. In embodiments in which the device includes a GPS subsystem capable of determining the location of the device the device location may be determined and included as part of the electronic communication. The location may be in terms of a street address GPS coordinates or both. In some embodiments a map of the device location may be generated using a mapping application on device and included in the electronic communication as an embedded object or an attachment to the electronic communication. The map may be included addition to or instead of the location. Rather than using a GPS subsystem the device location may alternatively be determined using triangulation based on the distance to the various base stations in the wireless network . Triangulation based device location may be added to the electronic communication by the device if this information is known to it or a component of the wireless network or the wireless connector system after the electronic communication is sent by the device .

In some embodiments the device location and or map of the device location may be periodically determined and included in electronic communications periodically sent by the device for example when the device is in the lost device mode. This periodic reporting provides a device location record for tracking purposes. Location information may be sent to the IT administrator and thereafter posted on a corresponding website for access by the device user for easier recovery.

In some embodiments the device may include a camera not shown which may be used to take a digital image. The digital image is then included in the electronic communication as an embedded object or an attachment to the electronic communication. The digital image may be included instead of or in addition to the device location and or a map. The digital image may be useful for the device user in determining the device location as it may depict the surroundings of the device . The digital image may be particularly useful when the device is in an indoor environment in which the GPS subsystem and or communication subsystem may be unable to determine device location. In some embodiments digital images may be taken periodically and included in electronic communications periodically sent by the device for example when the device is in lost device mode. This periodic reporting provides a visual record of the device surroundings.

The device may be configured to issue more than one type of alert possibly at different times. In some embodiments the device may be configured to issue a local alert comprising one or any combination of a visual audio and physical indication in response to receiving a device drop notification from the drop detection module . After issuing the local alert the operating system then monitors the output of the accelerometer for any output which indicates movement of the device . If the output of the accelerometer does not indicate movement of the device within a predetermined duration e.g. 5 10 or 15 minutes from the device drop notification the device will send an electronic communication as described above. In these embodiments movement of the device is interpreted as the device user picking up the device and therefore as recovery of the device . Conversely the lack of movement of the device is interpreted as the device remaining in a lost or potentially lost state.

In some embodiments periodic or repeating alerts including visual audio and physical indications and sending of electronic communications have a fixed duration to preserve the life of the battery which would otherwise be quickly drained if periodic or repeating alerts were issued indefinitely.

The GUI of the device may allow the type of alerts to be issued and the alert parameters to be set by the device user. Examples of some of the configurable alert parameters will now be described. These examples are intended to be non limiting. In terms of audio alerts the type of audio alert its volume frequency and or duration may be configurable. In terms of visual alerts the type of visual alert its brightness frequency and or duration may be configurable. In terms of physical alerts the type of vibration or other physical alert its frequency and or duration may be configurable. In terms of electronic communications the type content and address of the electronic communication may be configurable.

Next in optional step security measures may be automatically performed when the device has not been recovered within a predetermined duration e.g. a day or more of the device drop notification. The security measures may comprise initiating a locked mode on the device when one has not already been initiated. The security measures may comprise performing a data security action in addition to or instead of initiating a locked mode on the device . The data security action may comprise erasing all or selected data from the memory of the device . In some embodiments user data may be erased while maintaining the operating system applications drop detection module and service data. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art service data comprises the data required by the device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network wireless network service data and the wireless gateway gateway service data such as service books encryption keys IT policy data and other identifying information required for wireless communication. In other embodiments both user data and service data may be erased while maintaining the operating system applications and drop detection module . In other embodiments the data security action may comprise encrypting user data and or service data while maintaining the operating system applications and drop detection module in unencrypted form.

While a three axis accelerometer has been described in the foregoing description an accelerometer having fewer sensing axes could be used in other embodiments.

While the operations have been described as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the steps may be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the steps described above may be combined in other embodiments and some of the steps described above may be separated into a number of sub steps in other embodiments.

In order to facilitate an understanding of one possible environment in which example embodiments described herein can operate reference is made to which shows in block diagram form a communication system in which example embodiments of the present disclosure can be applied. The communication system comprises a number of mobile communication devices which may be connected to the remainder of system in any of several different ways. Accordingly several instances of mobile communication devices are depicted in employing different example ways of connecting to system . Mobile communication devices are connected to a wireless network which may comprise one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In some embodiments the mobile communication devices are configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In some embodiments the wireless network may comprise multiple WWANs and WLANs .

The WWAN may be implemented as any suitable wireless access network technology. By way of example but not limitation the WWAN may be implemented as a wireless network that includes a number of transceiver base stations one of which is shown in where each of the base stations provides wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. The WWAN is typically operated by a mobile network service provider that provides subscription packages to users of the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments the WWAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized CDMA2000 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems HSPDA High Speed Downlink Packet Access IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or various other networks. Although WWAN is described as a Wide Area network that term is intended herein also to incorporate wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMAN and other similar technologies for providing coordinated service wirelessly over an area larger than that covered by typical WLANs.

The WWAN may further comprise a wireless network gateway which connects the mobile communication devices to transport facilities and through the transport facilities to a wireless connector system . Transport facilities may include one or more private networks or lines the public Internet a virtual private network or any other suitable network. The wireless connector system may be operated for example by an organization or enterprise such as a corporation university or governmental department which allows access to a network such as an internal or enterprise network and its resources or the wireless connector system may be operated by a mobile network provider. In some embodiments the network may be realised using the Internet rather than an internal or enterprise network.

The wireless network gateway provides an interface between the wireless connector system and the WWAN which facilitates communication between the mobile communication devices and other devices not shown connected directly or indirectly to the WWAN . Accordingly communications sent via the mobile communication devices are transported via the WWAN and the wireless network gateway through transport facilities to the wireless connector system . Communications sent from the wireless connector system are received by the wireless network gateway and transported via the WWAN to the mobile communication devices .

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN may be a personal network of the user an enterprise network or a hotspot offered by an Internet service provider ISP a mobile network provider or a property owner in a public or semi public area for example. The access points are connected to an access point AP interface which may connect to the wireless connector system directly for example if the access point is part of an enterprise WLAN in which the wireless connector system resides or indirectly as indicated by the dashed line if via the transport facilities if the access point is a personal Wi Fi network or Wi Fi hotspot in which case a mechanism for securely connecting to the wireless connector system such as a virtual private network VPN may be required . The AP interface provides translation and routing services between the access points and the wireless connector system to facilitate communication directly or indirectly with the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system may be implemented as one or more servers and is typically located behind a firewall . The wireless connector system manages communications including email communications to and from a set of managed mobile communication devices . The wireless connector system also provides administrative control and management capabilities over users and mobile communication devices which may connect to the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system allows the mobile communication devices to access the network and connected resources and services such as a messaging server for example a Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino or Novell GroupWise email server and a content server for providing content such as Internet content or content from an organization s internal servers and application servers for implementing server based applications such as instant messaging IM applications to mobile communication devices .

The wireless connector system typically provides a secure exchange of data e.g. email messages personal information manager PIM data and IM data with the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments communications between the wireless connector system and the mobile communication devices are encrypted. In some embodiments communications are encrypted using a symmetric encryption key implemented using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES encryption. Private encryption keys are generated in a secure two way authenticated environment and are used for both encryption and decryption of data. In some embodiments the private encryption key is stored only in the user s mailbox on the messaging server and on the mobile communication device and can typically be regenerated by the user on mobile communication devices . Data sent to the mobile communication devices is encrypted by the wireless connector system using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox. The encrypted data when received on the mobile communication devices is decrypted using the private encryption key stored in memory. Similarly data sent to the wireless connector system from the mobile communication devices is encrypted using the private encryption key stored in the memory of the mobile communication device . The encrypted data when received on the wireless connector system is decrypted using the private encryption key retrieved from the user s mailbox.

The wireless network gateway is adapted to send data packets received from the mobile communication device over the WWAN to the wireless connector system . The wireless connector system then sends the data packets to the appropriate connection point such as the messaging server content server or application servers . Conversely the wireless connector system sends data packets received for example from the messaging server content server or application servers to the wireless network gateway which then transmit the data packets to the destination mobile communication device . The AP interfaces of the WLAN provide similar sending functions between the mobile communication device the wireless connector system and network connection point such as the messaging server content server and application server .

The network may comprise a private local area network metropolitan area network wide area network the public Internet or combinations thereof and may include virtual networks constructed using any of these alone or in combination.

A mobile communication device may alternatively connect to the wireless connector system using a computer such as desktop or notebook computer via the network . A link may be provided for exchanging information between the mobile communication device and computer connected to the wireless connector system . The link may comprise one or both of a physical interface and short range wireless communication interface. The physical interface may comprise one or combinations of an Ethernet connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection Firewire also known as an IEEE 1394 interface connection or other serial data connection via respective ports or interfaces of the mobile communication device and computer . The short range wireless communication interface may be a personal area network PAN interface. A personal area network is a wireless point to point connection meaning no physical cables are required to connect the two end points. The short range wireless communication interface may comprise one or a combination of an infrared IR connection such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA connection a short range radio frequency RF connection such as one specified by IEEE 802.15.1 or the Bluetooth special interest group or IEEE 802.15.3a also referred to as UltraWideband UWB or other PAN connection.

It will be appreciated that the above described communication system is provided for the purpose of illustration only and that the above described communication system comprises one possible communication network configuration of a multitude of possible configurations for use with the mobile communication devices . The teachings of the present disclosure may be employed in connection with any other type of network and associated devices that are effective in implementing or facilitating wireless communication. Suitable variations of the communication system will be understood to a person of skill in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus such as a handheld electronic device including components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present disclosure.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

