---

title: Corrossion resistant minesweeping cable
abstract: An improved corrosion-resistant magnetic influence minesweeping cable is provided. The cable produces a magnetic field that simulates a ship's magnetic signature as the ship passes through the sea. It has an outer anode conductor made of titanium-clad copper with mixed metal oxide at its aft end, an outer cathode conductor made of nickel-clad copper at its forward end, an inner conductor made of aluminum that runs the length of the cable, and a steel core strength member that also runs the length of the cable. The outer anode conductor is in electrical contact with the inner conductor. The outer cathode conductor is insulated from the inner conductor. The outer cathode conductor and the inner conductor can be connected to an electrical power source onboard a towing vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08987598&OS=08987598&RS=08987598
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08987598
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties.

The present invention relates generally to minesweeping and in particular to minesweeping using a magnetic influence cable that is capable of simulating the magnetic signature of a ship passing through saltwater therein causing influence mines to detonate when they sense the created magnetic signature. The magnetic influence cable is typically deployed from a tow vehicle in a seawater environment so it is desirable that the cable have good resistance to corrosion due to air sun salt water and the presence of an electrical current.

There are many types of mines used to damage and destroy marine vessels. Magnetic influence mines detonate on sensing a change in the ambient magnetic field. The proliferation of relatively inexpensive mines makes Mine Countermeasures MCM a necessary and expensive challenge to counter the proliferation. Minesweeping has historically been conducted by ships with nonmagnetic bottoms i.e. wood fiber glass . However even ships with a nonmagnetic bottom have a magnetic signature and this magnetic signature can be detected by influence mines having a sensor that detects changes in the magnetic environment. More recently aircraft helicopters and remotely controlled unmanned vessels have been employed to conduct minesweeping.

Examples of minesweeping methods include mechanical sweeps acoustic sweeps and magnetic sweeps. Mechanical sweeps are designed to sever the cables of moored mines with explosives or abrasives. Acoustic sweeps are typically used to locate the positions of mines which can then be neutralized typically by explosives. Magnetic sweeps typically simulate a ship s magnetic signature thus causing the mine to detonate.

Magnetic influence minesweeper methods generate an electromagnetic current to create a magnetic field that simulates the magnetic signature created by the passage of a ship thus tricking the magnetic influence mine to detonate. A node in the electromagnetic current typically is an electrode connected to a cable that is towed by a vessel or helicopter usually in saltwater. Saltwater is conductive and thusly can act as a leg in an electrical circuit when conducting a magnetic sweep. Saltwater is also corrosive and it is especially corrosive to electrodes where the electrode is in contact with an electrical current saltwater sun and air. With open loop sweeps the electrodes are in contact with at least three of these.

The rapid corrosion experienced by these prior art electrodes require frequent replacement of the aft electrode which requires a connector between the said electrode and the rest of the cable to facilitate the removal and replacement of the electrode. However the connector itself is subject to frequent failures from fatigue due to the constant movement of the joint in the seawater during towing operations as well as stresses placed on the joint when it is wound around the winch when stowed. Additionally these connectors are bulky relative to the rest of the cable and can cause snagging and other associated problems when the cable is being wound around the winch during deployment or stowage operations. This is especially problematic when the cable is being deployed from an unmanned minesweeping vessel where there are no personnel onboard to unsnagged or otherwise correct the problem.

Thus it is an object of the invention to provide a continuous length corrosion resistant minesweeping cable that significantly improves the life of the electrode and that is particularly suitable for use on unmanned minesweeping vessels.

The invention in one aspect is an improved magnetic influence cable for producing a magnetic field in saltwater that simulates a ship s signature as it passes through the water. The magnetic influence cable produces the simulated signature when as it is pulled through the saltwater an electric current is provided where the current passes through the magnetic influence cable and the ambient saltwater. The improved magnetic influence cable of the invention has much better corrosion resistance than prior art cables.

In general the magnetic influence cable has good flexibility made possible through the use of wires of twisted bundles of fine strands twisted wires sheaths of twisted wires rubber insulators and elastic jackets.

The magnetic influence cable is coaxial having at its core an inner conductor cable with a coaxial arrangement. The inner conductor cable extends the full length of the magnetic influence cable and has a core axial strength member which is typically wrapped with a separator an inner conductor and a perimeter insulation layer. The inner conductor of the inner conductor cable comprises a plurality of circular threads of aluminum. On average there are about 60 circular threads twist wound around the strength member. In operation the inner connector is connected to an electrical power source onboard the minesweeping vessel such as a generator.

The insulation is a resilient non conducting waterproof material. The insulation is adhered to the inner conductor with a first binder. The first binder is selected to have excellent adhesion to the aluminum inner conductor and the insulation. The insulation in one embodiment is about 0.3 inches thick.

An aft portion of the magnetic influence cable has an aft electrode which is typically the anode where electrons are collected from the ambient saltwater and passed on to the inner conductor. The aft electrode is relatively long typically in the range of about 9 to about 18 of the total length of the magnetic influence cable. The aft electrode is typically an outer anode conductor having an exposed sleeve like layer of a plurality of twisted conductive wires laid side by side and embedded in the outer perimeter of the insulation of the inner conductor cable. Each wire is at least one strand of an electrically conductive material. The aft electrode conductive material is composed of titanium clad copper where the titanium is coated with mixed metal oxides MMO . This material combination has better corrosion resistance than pure aluminum.

A forward portion of the magnetic influence cable has a forward electrode where the forward electrode is typically a partially exposed outer cathode conductor that is connected to an electrical power source onboard the minesweeping vessel. The forward electrode has an exposed sleeve like layer of a plurality of twisted conductive bundles of strands laid side by side and embedded in the outer perimeter of the insulation of the inner conductor cable. The forward electrode typically provides electrons to the ambient saltwater where the electrons move through the conductive saltwater toward the aft electrode. The forward electrode is also relatively long typically in the range of about 7 to about 15 of the total length of the magnetic influence cable.

Forward of the cathode the outer cathode conductor is covered with a protective jacket forming a jacketed section of the magnetic influence cable designated as the link cable section. The outer cathode conductor and the inner conductor of the link cable section are in electrical connection with the generator or whatever source is supplying the electrical current onboard the ship or other vessel that is towing the cable through the seawater. The outer cathode conductor is a layer of a plurality of a twisted bundle of strands of an electrically conductive material laid side by side. The forward electrode conductive material is selected from copper clad aluminum tinned copper pure copper and nickel clad copper. All of these materials have better corrosion resistance than pure aluminum. In the preferred embodiment the forward electrode comprises nickel clad copper which provides a good compromise of cost performance and corrosion resistance.

Therefore the improved combination of materials for the magnetic influence cable is one where the aft electrode is composed of titanium clad copper where the titanium is coated with mixed metal oxides which improve the conductivity of the titanium and the forward electrode is composed of nickel clad copper.

The jacket material used in the link cable section is an insulation material similar to that used to cover the inner conductor cable.

The invention is a magnetic influence cable that has improved corrosion resistance wherein the sweep cable is a component of a minesweeping system utilized in a seawater environment. The illustrated magnetic influence cable is particularly suitable for open loop influence mine sweeping. Open loop influence mine sweeping produces a magnetic field in saltwater that simulates a ship s magnetic signature as it passes through the water. A simulated signature is created when as the cable is pulled through the saltwater the cable is energized with an electric current and uses the water as a conductor to produce a magnetic field. In an open loop configuration electrons flow from a forward electrode through the ambient saltwater and are collected by the aft electrode which is in electrical connection with the cable. Alternatively one can describe this same current in terms of protons where the current flows from the aft electrode through the saltwater and to the forward electrode. However one views current for purposes of this disclosure the aft electrode is an anode and the forward electrode is a cathode.

The materials selected for the electrodes exposed to saltwater are resistant to corrosion from salt water air and sunlight as well as from the current s electromagnetic field EMF .

The inner conductor of the inner conductor cable comprises a plurality of threads of aluminum. Typically there are about 60 threads twist wound around the strength member . In operation the inner connector is connected to an electrical power source onboard the minesweeping vessel such as a generator.

The insulation comprises a resilient non conducting waterproof material that is adhered to the inner conductor with a first binder . The first binder is selected to have excellent adhesion to the aluminum inner conductor and the insulation . Selection of the insulation material can vary based upon the desired properties operational temperature abrasion resistance weathering properties etc . The insulation in the preferred embodiment is about 0.3 inch thick and is composed of extruded polyperfluoroalkoxyethylene PFA such as Symalit 1000 PFA manufactured by Quadrant Engineering Plastics Products of Reading Pa.

After testing multiple aft electrode conductive materials for the anode the best overall corrosion resistance that was acceptable in terms of cost versus performance was provided by titanium clad copper where the titanium cladding is coated with mixed metal oxides MMO . The mixed metal oxide MMO coating is highly conductive corrosion resistant and acid resistant and it is added to the titanium as an electrocatalyst to improve conductivity and resistance to acidic environments. In the preferred embodiment the MMO comprises iridium oxide IrO and tantalum oxide TaO . The wires of anodic conductor can be for example Optima Anodes manufactured by Siemens Water Technologies Corp. of Union N.J.

By the numbers the link cable section is substantially the inner conductor cable having the previously described inner conductor an outer cathode conductor having a sleeve like layer of a plurality of slightly twisted cathode bundles of strands of a cathode corrosion resistant conductive material laid side by side and embedded in the outer perimeter of the insulation of the inner conductor cable . The two conductors surround the strength member . The inner conductor is aluminum with first binder and an insulating layer separates it from the outer cathode conductor . The outer cathode conductor is typically a nickel clad copper conductor. The link cable section is insulated with a watertight jacket which is similar to insulation material used on the inner conductor cable. The watertight jacket is adhered to the outer cathode conductor with a second binder . The second binder is selected to have excellent adhesion to the outer cathode conductor and the jacket . The link cable section is a jacketed portion of the forward electrode comprised of an insulating jacket adhered with a second binder to the outer cathode conductor wherein said jacket extends to the forward end of the magnetic influence cable.

This improved magnetic influence cable resists corrosion better than prior art cables while operating in seawater. A high current loop between the two electrodes using the seawater as a conductor produces an effective simulation of a ship s magnetic signature but the environment is typically very corrosive. The open loop process accelerates corrosion of the metals used as exposed electrodes in the prior art cables in typical minesweeping operations. The invented cable described herein has a combination of materials that provides the same magnetic signature output as the prior art cables but with much diminished corrosion allowing the cable to be used significantly longer. Another advantage of the invented magnetic influence cable is that there are no bulky connectors at the electrodes that can break or impede winch operations as has been experienced with the prior art cables. Yet another advantage of the invented magnetic influence cable is that the cost of fabrication is comparable to previously used systems which typically have all aluminum cables. Because of the longer operational life of the new cable the operational cost of this cable is greatly reduced as compared with the previous cables.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

