---

title: Methods and apparatus for wireless device positioning in multicarrier configurations
abstract: The described aspects include methods and apparatus for performing positioning for a user equipment (UE). The UE can communicate with a plurality of serving cells in a multicarrier configuration, and can indicate a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells in a message to a positioning server. The positioning server can obtain location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells, or related eNBs, related to the plurality of serving cell identifiers, and can communicate the location information to the UE. The UE can perform positioning based at least in part on the location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363782&OS=09363782&RS=09363782
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09363782
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 499 897 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR WIRELESS DEVICE POSITIONING IN MULTICARRIER CONFIGURATIONS filed Jun. 22 2011 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless network communications and more particularly to performing positioning for one or more devices.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power etc. . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP e.g. 3GPP LTE Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced ultra mobile broadband UMB evolution data optimized EV DO etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile user equipment UE . Each UE may communicate with one or more evolved Node B eNB via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from eNB to UE and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from UE to eNB. Further communications between UE and eNB may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth.

In addition UEs can perform positioning in the wireless communication network by measuring signals received from one or more eNBs and comparing the signals according to locations of the one or more eNBs e.g. using Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Assisted Global Navigation Satellite System A GNSS or other techniques based on signals received from the eNBs and related location information enhanced cell identifier E CID and or the like . In one example a UE can communicate an identifier of a serving eNB or its related cell to a positioning server in the core wireless network. The positioning server can specify location information regarding the eNB and or other neighboring eNBs e.g. along with associated identifiers to the UE based on the identification of the serving eNB. The UE can accordingly perform positioning based on the location information and signals measured of at least a portion of the indicated neighboring eNBs.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof the present disclosure describes various aspects in connection with indicating multiple cells or related evolved Node Bs eNBs serving a user equipment UE in a multicarrier configuration for performing positioning at the UE. A component that receives the indication of the multiple cells can provide location information regarding the multiple cells to the UE for determining a position. In addition location information regarding neighboring cells or related eNBs to the multiple cells or eNBs can be provided to the UE. For example the neighboring cells for which to provide location information can be selected based on the multiple cells indicated by the UE. This can include providing location information for neighboring cells that can likely be heard by the UE based on the indicated multiple cells providing location information for neighboring cells that operate on a same frequency as at least a portion of the indicated multiple cells to avoid UE having to switch frequencies to perform measurements thereof for determining positioning etc.

In one example a method for performing positioning for a UE is provided. The method includes communicating with a plurality of serving cells in a multicarrier configuration and indicating a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells in a message to a positioning server.

In another aspect an apparatus for performing positioning for a UE is provided. The apparatus includes means for communicating with a plurality of serving cells in a multicarrier configuration and means for indicating a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells in a message to a positioning server.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for performing positioning for a UE is provided including a non transitory computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to communicate with a plurality of serving eNBs in a multicarrier configuration and code for causing the at least one computer to indicate a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells in a message to a positioning server.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for performing positioning for a UE is provided including a processor and a memory in electronic communication with the processor. The apparatus further includes instructions stored in the memory executable by the processor to communicate with a plurality of serving cells in a multicarrier configuration and indicate a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells in a message to a positioning server.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for performing positioning for a UE is provided. The apparatus includes a multicarrier communicating component for communicating with a plurality of serving cells in a multicarrier configuration and a serving cell identifier providing component for indicating a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells in a message to a positioning server.

In another example a method for providing location information to a UE is provided including receiving a message comprising a plurality of serving cell identifiers related to a UE and obtaining location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells related to the plurality of serving cell identifiers. The method further includes communicating the location information to the UE

In another aspect an apparatus for providing location information to a UE is provided. The apparatus includes means for receiving a message comprising a plurality of serving cell identifiers related to a UE means for obtaining location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells related to the plurality of serving cell identifiers and means for communicating the location information to the UE.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for providing location information to a UE is provided including a non transitory computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to receive a message comprising a plurality of serving cell identifiers related to a UE code for causing the at least one computer to obtain location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells related to the plurality of serving cell identifiers and code for causing the at least one computer to communicate the location information to the UE.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for providing location information to a UE is provided including a processor and a memory in electronic communication with the processor. The apparatus further includes instructions stored in the memory executable by the processor to receive a message comprising a plurality of serving cell identifiers related to a UE obtain location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells related to the plurality of serving cell identifiers and communicate the location information to the UE.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for providing location information to a UE is provided. The apparatus includes a serving cell identifier receiving component for receiving a message comprising a plurality of serving cell identifiers related to a UE a location information determining component for obtaining location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells related to the plurality of serving cell identifiers and a location information communicating component for communicating the location information to the UE.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

Described herein are various aspects related to indicating identifiers of multiple evolved Node Bs eNB or related cells serving a user equipment UE in a multicarrier configuration to a component that provides related location information. The component can provide location information regarding the multiple eNBs or related cells to the UE and or location information of other neighboring eNBs or related cells to the UE to facilitate using additional reference points in determining positioning. For instance the neighboring eNBs or related cells can be selected based on the multiple indicated cells based on utilizing a common frequency of at least a portion of the multiple indicated cells etc. In this regard the UE can obtain the location information and measure signals from corresponding eNBs or cells. The UE can then perform positioning based on the signals and location information e.g. using Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Assisted Global Navigation Satellite System A GNSS or other techniques enhanced cell identifier E CID and or the like . In this regard identification of the multiple identified serving eNBs or related cells is used to provide more precise location information of nearby eNBs or cells and or location information for eNBs or cells that do not require switching frequency to conserve power at the UE.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software firmware in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that can include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems can include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches can also be used.

In an example UE can be served by cells and over respective carriers and in a multicarrier configuration. In this example UE can provide an indication of its multiple serving cells and to positioning server . This can include providing identifiers thereof in a message to the positioning server e.g. via a primary component carrier PCC which can be carrier or etc. . Positioning server can obtain the identifiers and provision location information for the cells and and or neighboring cells such as cells etc. or corresponding eNBs to UE based on the identifiers. Receiving identifiers of the multiple cells serving UE allows the positioning server to determine a set of cells for which to provision location information to the UE . This can improve the quality of location information provided to the UE as opposed to where UE sends an identifier of a single cell to the positioning server .

In one example as UE is served not only in cell but also by cell positioning server can determine to provide location information for additional cells and or . For instance positioning server can determine not to provide location information for cells or because the UE is served by cells and from which positioning server can infer that UE is closer to cells and or than if UE was served by other cells. For example if UE was instead served by cells and positioning server may infer that UE is closer to cell and not and may accordingly include location information for cell and not . Thus positioning server determines a set of eNBs or cells for which to provide location information based on a current serving set of cells and as indicated by UE . Upon receiving the location information UE can limit signal measuring to cells and or and can determine a position of UE based on the measurements and location information e.g. using OTDOA A GNSS E CID etc. as described above .

In another example positioning server can determine to provide location information for additional cell based additionally or alternatively on an operating frequency thereof. For example positioning server can determine that eNB uses a similar operating frequency to provide cell as eNB uses to provide cell and or and thus UE need not switch frequencies to measure cell . Positioning server may determine however that eNB operates cell using a frequency different from cells and and thus may not provide location information of cell to UE . Thus UE can measure the additional cells on the same frequency as one or more of the current serving cell for determining positioning as described. Moreover though shown and described with two cells it is to be appreciated that UE or other UEs described herein can operate in the multicarrier configuration with substantially any number of cells and can thus report serving cell identifiers therefor. In addition though shown as served by cells of a single eNB it is to be appreciated that UE can be served by cells of multiple eNBs and can similarly report cell identifiers thereof for determining positioning.

UE can include a multicarrier communicating component for communicating with a plurality of cells of one or more eNBs over a plurality of carriers and a serving cell identifier providing component for communicating identifiers of the plurality of cells or related eNBs to a positioning server. UE also includes a location information receiving component for obtaining location information from the positioning server based on the identifiers and a positioning component for computing a position of the UE based at least in part on the location information.

Positioning server includes a serving cell identifier receiving component for obtaining a plurality of cell identifiers from a UE a location information determining component for obtaining location information for the UE based on the cell identifiers and a location information communicating component for providing the location information to the UE .

In addition system optionally includes a mobility management entity MME or other supporting network node that can communicate with positioning server to provide serving cell information of UE thereto. MME includes a serving cell identifier receiving component that obtains one or more serving cell identifiers from UE and a serving cell identifier providing component that can indicate one or more serving cell identifiers to positioning server .

According to an example multicarrier communicating component can communicate with a plurality of cells serving UE to receive multicarrier access in a wireless network. For example the plurality of cells can be provided by one or more eNBs and or and can support simultaneous communication of user plane data and or control data with UE over one or more carriers in the given cells. In this regard the multicarrier communicating component receives signals from eNB and or in the plurality of cells and or transmits signals thereto over the multiple carriers. Periodically e.g. based on a timer or other trigger or event such as an application layer request positioning component can initiate position determination at UE . In this example serving cell identifier providing component can determine identifiers of the plurality of cells or related eNBs or and can communicate the identifiers to positioning server .

In one example UE can communicate the identifiers to positioning server at least via eNB . For example UE can have established a primary component carrier PCC with eNB in a cell over which control data can be communicated with the wireless network. In this example eNB can communicate with positioning server via one or more components of the wireless network such as MME or other supporting nodes. In another example MME can otherwise obtain serving cell identifiers from UE e.g. via serving cell identifier receiving component and serving cell identifier providing component can provide the serving cell identifiers to positioning server . Moreover for example the serving cell identifiers can correspond to a global cell identifier such as a E UTRAN cell global identifier ECGI etc. an operating frequency a carrier identifier etc. of the cells or related eNBs or . The serving cell identifiers can serve to identify e.g. uniquely the cells. In one example the carrier identifier can correspond to a frequency of the carrier.

Serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain the multiple serving cell identifiers and location information determining component can obtain location information related to the cells e.g. a location of the corresponding eNB and or of other cells or related eNBs based on the serving cell identifiers. For example various eNBs such as eNBs and can provide location information and or related cell information e.g. cell identifiers to positioning server at some previous point in time e.g. upon request from the positioning server initialization of the eNBs in the wireless network etc. . In another example the positioning server can otherwise be provisioned with such information from one or more core network components a configuration operator input and or the like. In any case location information determining component can store location information for various eNBs or related cells as an association between a geographic location or related information of an eNB and one or more cell identifiers. The geographical location for example can include an absolute location e.g. using global positioning system GPS or similar coordinates a relative location e.g. a direction and distance of a known reference point etc. of the eNB or locations within the cells themselves.

In an example location information determining component can determine one or more other cells near the identified serving cells. This can include determining cells of other nearby eNBs based on a distance or radio visibility from at least a portion of the serving eNBs and or to other eNBs. In one example location information determining component infers at initial position of UE based on analyzing all of the serving cells and related locations. In an example where one serving cell is near some other cell e.g. the cells or related eNBs are within a threshold distance or have radio visibility to one another location information determining component can determine to not include location information of the other cell where none of the other serving cells are near the other cell or related eNB based on location information as this can indicate the UE is likely not close enough to the other cell and thus would likely not benefit from receiving its location information. In another example location information determining component can generate or otherwise receive neighbor lists for each serving cell or related eNB and can determine whether to include location information of one or more nearby cells or related eNBs based on whether the nearby cells or related eNBs are in one or a certain number of the neighbor lists for the serving cells or related eNB or .

In an additional or alternative example location information determining component can obtain location information for other cells near the serving cells or cells or eNBs near eNBs or that provide the serving cells where the nearby cells utilize a similar operating frequency to at least one of the serving cells referred to herein as intra frequency location information . Positioning component can measure signals from such cells without having to switch to other frequencies to perform such measurements. Thus in this example location information determining component may refrain from providing location information related to cells that utilize a different operating frequency regardless of whether the cells are nearby serving cells or related eNBs are nearby eNB or that provide the serving cells .

In one example the serving cell identifiers received from UE as described can be global cell identifiers operating frequencies carrier frequencies etc. of the serving cells. Thus location information determining component can determine the location information as received regarding one or more serving cells based on obtaining the location information associated with the given cell identifiers operating frequencies and or carrier identifiers. As described location information determining component can determine additional cells nearby those identified which can be based on a distance between the cells or related eNBs additional cells that utilize the same indicated operating frequency additional cells that utilize the same carrier identifier additional cells that have radio visibility at the one or more serving cells e.g. the one or more serving cells or UEs communicating therewith can hear signals from the additional cells and or the like.

In one example serving cell identifier providing component can indicate a global cell identifier of one serving cell e.g. the serving cell associated with the PCC while including operating frequencies or carrier identifiers of other cells e.g. cells associated with secondary component carriers SCC . In this example location information determining component can determine the serving cell location information based on the global cell identifier of the serving cell and can determine other cell location information for cells nearby based on the operating frequencies or carrier identifiers e.g. by selecting cells and or related eNBs near the serving cell for which the global cell identifier is provided that utilize the same operating frequencies or carrier identifiers of the other serving cells .

In any case location information communicating component can provide the location information for the serving cells and or additional location information for other cells as described above to UE . In this example location information receiving component can obtain the location information and positioning component can perform positioning for UE based at least in part on the location information . In one example positioning component can additionally measure signals from the serving cells as well as any other cells identified in the received location information . It is to be appreciated that the location information can include other cells of eNBs or that provide the serving cells. In one example where positioning server does not discriminate cells for which it provides location information based on operating frequency positioning component can limit measuring to cells or related eNBs that utilize a similar operating frequency. In either case positioning component can accordingly determine a position of UE using the signals and location information e.g. using OTDOA A GNSS E CID etc. . Thus multiple serving cells of UE and or other cells selected based on the serving set of cells can be utilized as additional points of reference in determining a position.

In a specific example serving cell identifier providing component can indicate a cell identifier to MME e.g. this can be part of initializing communications with MME adding a carrier with a new eNB or related cell etc. and serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain the cell identifier. In one example it is to be appreciated that serving cell identifier receiving component can receive the cell identifier from the eNB that facilitates communicating between UE and MME . In any case serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain serving cell identifiers related to UE and serving cell identifier providing component can communicate the cell identifiers to positioning server in a Location Services LCS Application Protocol LCS AP Request Location message to the positioning server using a LTE Positioning Protocol LPP message. Positioning server which can be an E SMLC in this example can obtain serving cell information for UE from MME . In this example serving cell identifier providing component can provide an identifier of the serving cell or related eNB that provides the PCC for UE in the multicarrier configuration e.g. a cell of eNB .

In this example serving cell identifier providing component can also include a list of additional e.g. or secondary serving cell identifiers e.g. related to eNBs and and or a list of corresponding operating frequencies thereof as an extension of the LCS AP Request Location message to positioning server . Thus serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain the LCS AP Request Location message and can determine the existence of the additional serving cell identifiers. Location information determining component in this example can obtain location information for the additional serving cell identifiers and or for one or more nearby cells or related eNBs e.g. cells or eNBs indicated in a neighboring list cells or related eNBs within a threshold distance of the eNB providing the serving cell with which the PCC is established based on the location information cells or related eNBs that utilize a similar operating frequency as the serving cells and or the like as described . Location information communicating component can transmit the location information to UE for determining its position.

In another specific example serving cell identifier providing component can indicate the multiple serving cells identifiers to positioning server via a Provide Location Information message in LPP. For example this message can be extended to allow reporting of multiple instances of location information corresponding to the plurality of serving cell identifiers or operating frequencies as described above with respect to the LCS AP protocol.

Similarly in other technologies such as Secure User Plane Location SUPL serving cell identifier providing component can specify a list of serving cell identifiers related to the serving cells of UE provided by eNB or in a SUPL START SUPL POS INT or similar message to positioning server . In this example UE can be substantially any SUPL enabled terminal and positioning server can be a SUPL location platform. For example serving cell identifier providing component can utilize the Location ID field in the SUPL message which can be extended to allow reporting multiple serving cell identifiers. Serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain the message with the list of serving cell identifiers. In another example serving cell identifier providing component can specify the serving cell identifiers in the Multiple Location IDs field in SUPL and can set the associated Serving Cell Flag as defined in SUPL to TRUE for the serving cell identifiers in the Multiple Location IDs. Serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain the Multiple Location IDs field and determine the serving cell identifiers based at least in part on whether the Serving Cell Flag is set to TRUE for a given serving cell identifier. In either example location information determining component can determine location information for the list of determined serving cell identifiers and or other nearby serving cells or cells that utilize the same operating frequency as described. Location information communicating component can provide the location information to UE .

In yet another example serving cell identifier providing component can use an identical timestamp value to indicate serving cells in the Multiple Location IDs field and can provide the Multiple Location IDs field to positioning server in a SUPL message. In this example no new field is added to the SUPL message structure. For example this can include indicating a 0 or omit value for the Relative Timestamp in the corresponding Multiple Location IDs field. Serving cell identifier receiving component can obtain the Multiple Location IDs and location information determining component can determine whether an identifier is a serving cell identifier based at least in part on the timestamp value. In this regard location information determining component can provide location information for the list of serving cell identifiers and or other nearby serving cells as described.

In addition though the foregoing aspects are shown and described with respect to a UE it is to be appreciated that a femto node location measurement unit LMU and or any suitable wireless network device can be equipped with the foregoing components to provide multiple serving cell identifiers for performing positioning as described.

At a plurality of serving cells can be communicated with in a multicarrier configuration. For example this can include establishing a plurality of carriers with the plurality of serving cells which can be provided by one or more eNBs to receive separate or simultaneous data therefrom. From an indication of the plurality of serving cells assumptions can be made regarding a location an operating frequency utilized and or the like.

At a plurality of serving cell identifiers corresponding to the plurality of serving cells can be indicated in a message to a positioning server. As described the indication of the serving cells can be used to identify other cells or eNBs potentially nearby other cells or eNBs that utilize a same operating frequency as at least one of the multiple carriers with the serving cells and or the like. This information can be used by the positioning server to gather location information of the serving cells and or additional nearby cells to facilitate determining a position. As described this can include indicating the plurality of serving cell identifiers in a LPP or SUPL message to the positioning server.

Optionally at location information for the plurality of serving cell identifiers can be received. For instance this can include receiving information from the positioning server such as an absolute or relative location of the plurality of serving cells one or more other nearby cells and or the like. In an example this can include receiving a message with the location information in a LPP or SUPL message.

Optionally at positioning can be performed for a UE based at least in part on the location information. For example OTDOA A GNSS E CID or other positioning algorithms can be performed based on the location information and signal strength measurements of the cells indicated in the location information. In another example the UE can determine whether one or more of the cells indicated in the location information communicates on a similar operating frequency as at least one of the plurality of serving cells before measuring signals thereof. This determination can be made based on a frequency specified in the location information and or the like. In another example the UE can attempt to measure signals of cells specified in the location information and where no signal is observed e.g. because the cell is provided on another frequency or otherwise the location information for the cell is not used in determining the position of UE.

At a message comprising a plurality of serving cell identifiers related to a UE can be received. For example this can include obtaining the serving cell identifiers in a LPP or SUPL message extended or otherwise utilized to support providing such information as described. The message can be received from a UE MME etc. as described.

At location information corresponding to at least a portion of a plurality of cells related to the serving cell identifiers can be obtained. This can include obtaining location information for the cells or related eNBs corresponding to the received serving cell identifiers. In addition location information for other cells nearby the serving cells and or that utilize the same operating frequency can be obtained as described above. In one example nearby cells can be determined based on identifying all cells corresponding to the serving cell identifiers instead of one or a portion thereof. The location information can be previously received from the cells or from other entities on behalf of the cells as described.

At the location information can be communicated to the UE. This can include communicating the information in one or more SUPL or LPP messages e.g. via an eNB serving the UE which can be over a PCC . The location information can include a location of the plurality of cells or related eNBs an operating frequency of the plurality of cells identifiers of the plurality of cells and or the like. Thus the UE can determine which cells to measure for positioning based on the location information as described.

Mobile device can additionally include memory that is operatively coupled to e.g. capable of being in electronic communication with processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data information related to cells related eNBs data associated with signals and any other suitable information. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with the various methodologies and examples for wireless device positioning.

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to include without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Receiver in one example can be operatively coupled or can include a multicarrier communicating component for managing communications over a plurality of aggregated carriers with one or more eNBs e.g. a PCC one or more SCCs etc. . Multicarrier communicating component can be similar to multicarrier communicating component for instance. In one example multicarrier communicating component can additionally or alternatively coupled to processor .

Processor can further be optionally operatively coupled to a serving cell identifier providing component which can be similar to serving cell providing component a location information receiving component which can be similar to location information receiving component and or a positioning component which can be similar to positioning component . Mobile device still further includes a modulator that modulates signals for transmission by transmitter to for instance a base station another mobile device etc. For example transmitter can transmit serving cell identifiers to a positioning server via one or more base stations as described. Moreover for example mobile device can include multiple transmitters for multiple network interfaces as described. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the multicarrier communicating component serving cell identifier providing component location information receiving component positioning component demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown and or stored as instructions in memory for execution by processor .

Computer device further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include substantially any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and combinations thereof. Computer device can also include one or more components which can be stored in memory executed by processor e.g. based on instructions stored in memory be implemented within one or more processors and or the like.

Further computer device includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software firmware and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on computer device as well as between computer device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to computer device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices.

Additionally computer device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software firmware that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor .

Computer device may optionally include an interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of computer device and further operable to generate outputs. Interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user or any combination thereof. Further interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user or any combination thereof. In another example interface component can be an application programming interface API that can be accessed by one or more devices to perform functions on computer device .

In addition in the depicted example computer device can optionally include one or more of a serving cell identifier receiving component which can be similar to serving cell identifier receiving component or a location information determining component which can be similar to location information determining component a location information communicating component which can be similar location information communicating component and or a serving cell identifier providing component which can be similar to serving cell identifier providing component . Thus these components and or can utilize processor to execute instructions associated therewith memory to store information associated therewith communications component to carry out communications and or the like as described. In addition it is to be appreciated that computer device can include additional or alternative components described herein.

Various aspects herein are described in terms of multicarrier configurations. Some examples of a multicarrier configuration are proposed for the LTE Advanced mobile systems including continuous carrier aggregation CA and non continuous CA examples of which are illustrated in . Continuous CA is shown at and occurs when multiple available component carriers and are assigned as adjacent to each other in frequency. In non continuous CA shown at the component carriers and can be assigned such that they are not adjacent in frequency. Both non continuous and continuous CA aggregate multiple LTE component carriers to serve a single unit of LTE Advanced UE for example.

An LTE Advanced UE can employ multiple radio frequency RF receiving units and multiple fast Fourier transforms with non continuous CA since the carriers are separated along the frequency band. Where continuous CA is used one RF receiving component and FFT may be sufficient to receive over all carriers. Because non continuous CA supports data transmissions over multiple separated carriers across a large frequency range propagation path loss Doppler shift and other radio channel characteristics may vary at different frequency bands.

Thus to support broadband data transmission under the non continuous CA approach methods may be used to adaptively adjust coding modulation and transmission power for different component carriers. For example in an LTE Advanced system where the eNB has fixed transmitting power on each component carrier the effective coverage or supportable modulation and coding of each component carrier may be different. In any case the carriers and or and can be assigned by multiple eNBs or related cells and the LTE Advanced UE can report cell identifiers for each to a positioning server as described.

In general there are three different approaches for deploying control channel signaling for multiple component carriers. The first involves a minor modification of the control structure in LTE systems where each component carrier is given its own coded control channel.

The second method involves jointly coding the control channels of different component carriers and deploying the control channels in a dedicated component carrier. The control information for the multiple component carriers can be integrated as the signaling content in this dedicated control channel. As a result backward compatibility with the control channel structure in LTE systems is maintained while signaling overhead in the CA is reduced.

Multiple control channels for different component carriers are jointly coded and then transmitted over the entire frequency band formed by a third CA method. This approach offers low signaling overhead and high decoding performance in control channels at the expense of high power consumption at the UE side. This method however may not be compatible with some LTE systems.

Moreover for example in CA control functions from at least two carriers can be aggregated onto one carrier to form a PCC and one or more associated SCCs. Communication links can be established for the PCC and each SCC with one or more cells or related eNBs. Then communication can be controlled based on the PCC in one example of a multicarrier configuration.

The E UTRAN includes the evolved Node B eNB and other eNBs . The eNB provides user and control planes protocol terminations toward the UE . The eNB may be connected to the other eNBs via an X2 interface e.g. backhaul . The eNB may also be referred to as a base station a base transceiver station a radio base station a radio transceiver a transceiver function a basic service set BSS an extended service set ESS or some other suitable terminology. The eNB provides an access point to the EPC for a UE . Examples of UEs include a cellular phone a smart phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone a laptop a netbook an ultrabook a smartbook a personal digital assistant PDA a satellite radio a global positioning system a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console or any other similar functioning device. The UE may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a user agent a mobile client a client or some other suitable terminology.

The eNB is connected by an S1 interface to the EPC . The EPC includes a Mobility Management Entity MME other MMEs a Serving Gateway and a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway . The MME is the control node that processes the signaling between the UE and the EPC . Generally the MME provides bearer and connection management. All user IP packets are transferred through the Serving Gateway which itself is connected to the PDN Gateway . The PDN Gateway provides UE IP address allocation as well as other functions. The PDN Gateway is connected to the Operator s IP Services . The Operator s IP Services may include the Internet an intranet an IP Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS and a Packet switched Streaming Service PSS .

The modulation and multiple access scheme employed by the access network may vary depending on the particular telecommunications standard being deployed. In LTE applications OFDM is used on the DL and SC FDMA is used on the UL to support both frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD . As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate from the detailed description to follow the various concepts presented herein are well suited for LTE applications. However these concepts may be readily extended to other telecommunication standards employing other modulation and multiple access techniques. By way of example these concepts may be extended to Evolution Data Optimized EV DO or Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB . EV DO and UMB are air interface standards promulgated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as part of the CDMA2000 family of standards and employs CDMA to provide broadband Internet access to mobile stations. These concepts may also be extended to Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA employing Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA such as TD SCDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM employing TDMA and Evolved UTRA E UTRA IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 and Flash OFDM employing OFDMA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from the 3GPP organization. CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from the 3GPP2 organization. The actual wireless communication standard and the multiple access technology employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

The eNBs may have multiple antennas supporting MIMO technology. The use of MIMO technology enables the eNBs to exploit the spatial domain to support spatial multiplexing beamforming and transmit diversity. Spatial multiplexing may be used to transmit different streams of data simultaneously on the same frequency. The data steams may be transmitted to a single UE to increase the data rate or to multiple UEs to increase the overall system capacity. This is achieved by spatially precoding each data stream e.g. applying a scaling of an amplitude and a phase and then transmitting each spatially precoded stream through multiple transmit antennas on the DL. The spatially precoded data streams arrive at the UE s with different spatial signatures which enables each of the UE s to recover the one or more data streams destined for that UE . On the UL each UE transmits a spatially precoded data stream which enables the eNB to identify the source of each spatially precoded data stream.

Spatial multiplexing is generally used when channel conditions are good. When channel conditions are less favorable beamforming may be used to focus the transmission energy in one or more directions. This may be achieved by spatially precoding the data for transmission through multiple antennas. To achieve good coverage at the edges of the cell a single stream beamforming transmission may be used in combination with transmit diversity.

For clarity various aspects of an access network are described with reference to a MIMO system supporting OFDM on the DL. OFDM is a spread spectrum technique that modulates data over a number of subcarriers within an OFDM symbol. The subcarriers are spaced apart at precise frequencies. The spacing provides orthogonality that enables a receiver to recover the data from the subcarriers. In the time domain a guard interval e.g. cyclic prefix may be added to each OFDM symbol to combat inter OFDM symbol interference. The UL may use SC FDMA in the form of a DFT spread OFDM signal to compensate for high peak to average power ratio PAPR .

A UE may be assigned resource blocks in the control section to transmit control information to an eNB. The UE may also be assigned resource blocks in the data section to transmit data to the eNB. The UE may transmit control information in a physical UL control channel PUCCH on the assigned resource blocks in the control section. The UE may transmit only data or both data and control information in a physical UL shared channel PUSCH on the assigned resource blocks in the data section. A UL transmission may span both slots of a subframe and may hop across frequency.

A set of resource blocks may be used to perform initial system access and achieve UL synchronization in a physical random access channel PRACH . The PRACH carries a random sequence and cannot carry any UL data signaling. Each random access preamble occupies a bandwidth corresponding to six consecutive resource blocks. The starting frequency is specified by the network. That is the transmission of the random access preamble is restricted to certain time and frequency resources. There is no frequency hopping for the PRACH. The PRACH attempt is carried in a single subframe 1 ms or in a sequence of few contiguous subframes and a UE can make only a single PRACH attempt per frame 10 ms .

In the user plane the L2 layer includes a media access control MAC sublayer a radio link control RLC sublayer and a packet data convergence protocol PDCP sublayer which are terminated at the eNB on the network side. Although not shown the UE may have several upper layers above the L2 layer including a network layer e.g. IP layer that is terminated at an PDN gateway on the network side and an application layer that is terminated at the other end of the connection e.g. far end UE server etc. .

The PDCP sublayer provides multiplexing between different radio bearers and logical channels. The PDCP sublayer also provides header compression for upper layer data packets to reduce radio transmission overhead security by ciphering the data packets and handover support for UEs between eNBs. The RLC sublayer provides segmentation and reassembly of upper layer data packets retransmission of lost data packets and reordering of data packets to compensate for out of order reception due to hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ . The MAC sublayer provides multiplexing between logical and transport channels. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for allocating the various radio resources e.g. resource blocks in one cell among the UEs. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for HARQ operations.

In the control plane the radio protocol architecture for the UE and eNB is substantially the same for the physical layer and the L2 layer with the exception that there is no header compression function for the control plane. The control plane also includes a radio resource control RRC sublayer in Layer 3 L3 layer . The RRC sublayer is responsible for obtaining radio resources e.g. radio bearers and for configuring the lower layers using RRC signaling between the eNB and the UE.

The transmit TX processor implements various signal processing functions for the L1 layer e.g. physical layer . The signal processing functions includes coding and interleaving to facilitate forward error correction FEC at the UE and mapping to signal constellations based on various modulation schemes e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM . The coded and modulated symbols are then split into parallel streams. Each stream is then mapped to an OFDM subcarrier multiplexed with a reference signal e.g. pilot in the time and or frequency domain and then combined together using an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT to produce a physical channel carrying a time domain OFDM symbol stream. The OFDM stream is spatially precoded to produce multiple spatial streams. Channel estimates from a channel estimator may be used to determine the coding and modulation scheme as well as for spatial processing. The channel estimate may be derived from a reference signal and or channel condition feedback transmitted by the UE . Each spatial stream is then provided to a different antenna via a separate transmitter TX. Each transmitter TX modulates an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

At the UE each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to the receive RX processor . The RX processor implements various signal processing functions of the L1 layer. The RX processor performs spatial processing on the information to recover any spatial streams destined for the UE . If multiple spatial streams are destined for the UE they may be combined by the RX processor into a single OFDM symbol stream. The RX processor then converts the OFDM symbol stream from the time domain to the frequency domain using a Fast Fourier Transform FFT . The frequency domain signal comprises a separate OFDM symbol stream for each subcarrier of the OFDM signal. The symbols on each subcarrier and the reference signal is recovered and demodulated by determining the most likely signal constellation points transmitted by the eNB . These soft decisions may be based on channel estimates computed by the channel estimator . The soft decisions are then decoded and deinterleaved to recover the data and control signals that were originally transmitted by the eNB on the physical channel. The data and control signals are then provided to the controller processor .

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the UL the control processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the core network. The upper layer packets are then provided to a data sink which represents all the protocol layers above the L2 layer. Various control signals may also be provided to the data sink for L3 processing. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

In the UL a data source is used to provide upper layer packets to the controller processor . The data source represents all protocol layers above the L2 layer. Similar to the functionality described in connection with the DL transmission by the eNB the controller processor implements the L2 layer for the user plane and the control plane by providing header compression ciphering packet segmentation and reordering and multiplexing between logical and transport channels based on radio resource allocations by the eNB . The controller processor is also responsible for HARQ operations retransmission of lost packets and signaling to the eNB .

Channel estimates derived by a channel estimator from a reference signal or feedback transmitted by the eNB may be used by the TX processor to select the appropriate coding and modulation schemes and to facilitate spatial processing. The spatial streams generated by the TX processor are provided to different antenna via separate transmitters TX. Each transmitter TX modulates an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

The UL transmission is processed at the eNB in a manner similar to that described in connection with the receiver function at the UE . Each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to a RX processor . The RX processor may implement the L1 layer.

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the UL the control processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the UE . Upper layer packets from the controller processor may be provided to the core network. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an ACK and or NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules components and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more aspects the functions methods or algorithms described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. If implemented in software firmware the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also substantially any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software firmware is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

