---

title: Synthesis of electroactive ionic liquids for flow battery applications
abstract: The present disclosure is directed to synthesizing metal ionic liquids with transition metal coordination cations, where such metal ionic liquids can be used in a flow battery. A cation of a metal ionic liquid includes a transition metal and a ligand coordinated to the transition metal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123943&OS=09123943&RS=09123943
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09123943
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 515 204 filed Aug. 4 2011 and entitled SYNTHESIS OF ELECTROACTIVE IONIC LIQUIDS FOR FLOW BATTERY APPLICATIONS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Global energy consumption is projected to significantly increase by mid century and this increased need may be partially met through use of renewable energy sources. Due to the intermittent nature of some of these renewable energy sources such as wind and solar it is desirable to incorporate compatible large scale energy storage devices into the energy grid. Use of such grid storage is also being driven by the evolving nature of the grid e.g. green grid smart grid distributed nature of the grid etc. as well as by other technological developments including vehicle electrification. Redox reduction oxidation flow batteries a rechargeable system that uses redox states of various species for charge discharge purposes represent a potential approach for grid storage.

In conventional flow batteries electrolyte e.g. catholyte and anolyte that includes one or more dissolved electroactive species oftentimes flows through an electrochemical cell that reversibly converts chemical energy to electricity. The electroactive components are dissolved in a solvent rather than being in a solid state in such flow batteries. Additional electrolyte can be stored external to the cell e.g. in tanks and can be pumped through the cell or fed into the cell via gravity. Thus spent electrolyte in the cell can be recovered for re energization and replaced with electrolyte from the external tanks. While flow batteries may be charged and discharged without degradation of performance conventional flow batteries commonly have low energy densities and include costly materials.

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to synthesizing metal ionic liquids with transition metal coordination cations where such metal ionic liquids can be used in a flow battery. A cation of a metal ionic liquid includes a transition metal and a ligand coordinated to the transition metal. Moreover the ligand includes a nitrogen containing functional group and an oxygen containing functional group.

According to various embodiments a metal ionic liquid can be synthesized by reacting a transition metal salt with a ligand. The reaction can be a single step reaction. Moreover the metal ionic liquid can be produced by a direct combination reaction of the transition metal salt with the ligand rather than a metathesis reaction.

In various embodiments an anion of a metal ionic liquid can be 2 ethylhexanoate hexafluorophosphate triflate triflimide or tetrafluoroborate. Moreover in accordance with an example a ligand of a metal ionic liquid can include an amine functional group and a hydroxyl functional group. Further a physiochemical property of an metal ionic liquid can be varied based on selection of the anion and or the ligand.

Further a flow battery can include a metal ionic liquid. Accordingly the metal ionic liquid can be an electroactive material and a solvent of an electrolyte e.g. catholyte anolyte in the flow battery. The metal ionic liquid can provide higher energy densities for the flow battery as compared to a flow battery where an electroactive material is dissolved in a solvent. Moreover the metal ionic liquid can have negligible vapor pressure and can be non corrosive.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to synthesizing ionic liquids with transition metal coordination cations where such metal ionic liquids can be used in a flow battery are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Set forth herein is a family of metal ionic liquids MetILs which are synthesized in a single step reaction e.g. from low cost precursors . The metal ionic liquids include transition metal coordination cations and weakly coordinating anions. Examples of the anions include 2 ethylhexanoate hexafluorophosphate triflate triflimide and tetrafluoroborate. The metal ionic liquids can simultaneously act as a solvent and electroactive material of a catholyte or an anolyte in a flow battery.

The transition metal based ionic liquid can be prepared in a single step reaction by reacting a transition metal salt with a ligand. The transition metal salt and the ligand can be combined and heated to produce the metal ionic liquid for instance. The metal ionic liquid is produced by a direct combination reaction of the transition metal salt with the ligand as opposed to a metathesis reaction. A metathesis reaction yields a secondary product while a direct combination reaction does not yield a secondary product accordingly since a secondary product is not generated by a direct combination reaction such secondary product need not be isolated and discarded when generating the metal ionic liquid e.g. isolation may be costly and flow battery performance may be detrimentally impacted by impurities . The synthesis can be scalable and can facilitate varying physicochemical properties of the metal ionic liquid based on selection of the transition metal salt and or the ligand.

The transition metal salt includes a transition metal and an anion. Examples of the anion include 2 ethylhexanoate hexafluorophosphate PF triflate CFSO triflimide CFSO N and tetrafluoroborate BF . Examples of the transition metal included in the transition metal salt described below include copper iron manganese and zinc e.g. copper iron manganese and zinc salts however it is to be appreciated that the transition metal included in the transition metal salt can be cobalt cerium nickel or substantially any other transition metal.

Moreover the ligand includes a nitrogen containing functional group and an oxygen containing functional group. The nitrogen containing functional group can be an amine functional group and the oxygen containing functional group can be a hydroxyl functional group thus the ligand can be an amino alcohol. Examples of the ligand set forth below include ethanolamine EA and diethanolamine DEA yet it is contemplated that substantially any other ligand that includes a nitrogen containing functional group and an oxygen containing functional group is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. For instance the ligand can be a straight chain ligand a branched chain ligand a cyclic ligand or the like.

Examples of the metal ionic liquid include FeNH CHCHOH CFSO CuNHCHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO CuNH CHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO CuNH CHCHOH CFSO CuNH CHCHOH CFSO N MnNH CHCHOH CFSO and ZnNHCHCHOH CFSO . Other examples of the metal ionic liquid include CeNHCHCHOH CFSO CuNH CHCHOH BF CoNHCHCHOH CFSO and NiNHCHCHOH CFSO . Yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples.

Ionic liquids including those that comprise transition metal elements metal ionic liquids are a class of highly modifiable molten salts for instance ionic liquids can be salts with melting points below 100 C. Ionic liquids can have features such as high thermal stability negligible vapor pressure wide electrochemical window and the ability to dissolve a range of organic and inorganic compounds such features make ionic liquids attractive for a wide range of applications e.g. solvents electrically conducting fluids etc. . Many of the properties of ionic liquids can be systematically varied by subtle compositional and structural changes. Further it may be desirable to develop ionic liquids that simultaneously exhibit low viscosity and high conductivity for flow batteries.

Large structurally asymmetric organic cations are often found in conventional ionic liquids including those utilized as electrochemical solvents because they lower the melting point by reducing the lattice energy of the crystalline salt. Recently some conventional ionic liquids include transition metal based anions. Examples include compounds including imidazolium cations with tetrahedral halogenoferrates and phosphonium cations with various cobaltates as well as ionic liquids including alkyl ammonium phosphonium or imidazolium salts of polyoxotungstate clusters. According to other examples some conventional ionic liquids include transition metal based cations. By way of illustration some ionic liquids have Ag HN R or Zn HN R R alkyl group cations and there are also a number of compounds that include ferrocenyl functionalized cations.

In contrast to conventional ionic liquids which oftentimes include cations with low structural symmetry the metal ionic liquids set forth herein include cations that have electronically asymmetric secondary coordination spheres that perturb pairing with anions. The nitrogen containing functional group and the oxygen containing functional group of a cation of the metal ionic liquid can have localized dipoles e.g. the amine functional group and the hydroxyl function group are polarizable thus the localized dipoles can produce the electronically asymmetric secondary coordination sphere of the cation. Partial positive and negative charges can be sufficiently distributed in a secondary coordination sphere of the cation to limit interaction with an anion while simultaneously keeping electrons sufficiently mobile to either add charge to or remove charge from the transition metal ion at the center of the cation complex. Further the electronically asymmetric cations can lower the melting point of the metal ionic liquids.

According to an example illustrates an exemplary structural formula of a cation in an exemplary metal ionic liquid namely CuNHCHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO . The cation has a pseudo octahedral structural symmetry with an almost insect like motif . As depicted NHCHCHOH is coordinated to the transition metal e.g. Cu through an amine functional group.

By way of another example illustrates an exemplary structural formula of a cation in MnNH CHCHOH CFSO e.g. another exemplary metal ionic liquid . Again the cation shown in has a pseudo octahedral structural symmetry. Further NH CHCHOH is coordinated to the transition metal e.g. Mn through an amine functional group.

In accordance with yet a further example illustrates an exemplary structural formula of a cation in FeNH CHCHOH CFSO e.g. another exemplary metal ionic liquid . Similar to the examples shown in the cation depicted in has a pseudo octahedral structural symmetry. In contrast to the examples of the ligand NH CHCHOH of the cation in FeNH CHCHOH CFSO is coordinated to the transition metal e.g. Fe through a hydroxyl functional group rather than an amine functional group.

Turning to illustrated is an exemplary diagrammatic representation of an electronically asymmetric secondary coordination sphere of a cation of a metal ionic liquid. A portion of the diagrammatic representation of the electronically asymmetric secondary coordination sphere is cut away to show the structure of the cation . The cation can have a symmetric structure. Moreover the amine and hydroxyl functional groups of the cation are polarizable and thus localized dipoles can be created by such functional groups resulting in the electronically asymmetric secondary coordination sphere. The dipoles can asymmetrically distribute charge in the secondary coordination sphere. While the cation overall has a net positive charge in the diagrammatic representation pentagons can each represent an arbitrary negative charge and hexagons can each represent an opposite arbitrary positive charge thereby illustrating the asymmetric charge distribution due to the polarizable amine and hydroxyl functional groups. Further the localized negative charges distributed through the electronically asymmetric secondary coordination sphere can repulse the anion of the metal ionic liquid. Thus the asymmetric charge distribution as opposed to physical shape of the cation can mitigate pairing between the cation and the anion.

Moreover a physiochemical property of the metal ionic liquid can be varied based at least in part on selection of the ligand and or the anion. Such physiochemical property that can be varied can be viscosity conductivity or a combination thereof for example. For instance whether the ligand coordinates to the transition metal through the nitrogen containing functional group or the oxygen containing function group can be based on selection of the anion. depict CuNH CHCHOH cations with differing ligand coordinations. In the ligands coordinate to the transition metal e.g. Cu through amine functional groups. In contrast in the ligands coordinate to the transition metal e.g. Cu through the hydroxyl functional group. According to an example pertaining to the CuNH CHCHOH cation when the anion is 2 ethylhexanoate or triflimide the ligands coordinate through the amine functional group as shown in . Following this example when the anion is triflate the ligands coordinate through the hydroxyl functional group as shown in . Further following this example viscosity of the metal ionic liquid can correspond to the ligand coordination. For instance the cation of has both amine and hydroxyl functional groups in the secondary coordination sphere and thus the cation of has lower symmetry as compared to the cation of . The lower symmetry leads to a decrease in ion pairing which leads to lower viscosity. Thus by way of illustration the ligand and anion and transition metal can be selected to provide a metal ionic liquid with low viscosity high conductivity and the ability to reversibly store charge e.g. through changes in oxidation state of one or more metals incorporated into the molecular formula of the metal ionic liquid for use in a flow battery yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

The metal ionic liquids can be used for flow battery energy storage. The metal ionic liquid is a non aqueous liquid. Moreover use of the metal ionic liquid in a flow battery can potentially provide wider voltage windows higher charge cycle efficiency decreased temperature sensitivity and increased cycle life as compared to conventional flow batteries. Thus the metal ionic liquids with reducing oxidizing redox transition metal species can be incorporated into a flow battery cell configuration. A difference in potentials of two different metal ionic liquids can be relied upon to establish a cell voltage. The ionically conductive metal ionic liquids can act as both an electroactive material and a solvent of an electrolyte e.g. catholyte and or anolyte in the flow battery. Moreover since the metal ionic liquids can have negligible vapor pressure safety issues related to cell pressurization can be mitigated.

With reference to illustrated is an exemplary redox flow battery that includes metal ionic liquids. The redox flow battery includes two electrodes e.g. a cathode and an anode namely electrode and electrode collectively referred to as electrodes . The two electrodes are separated by an anion exchange membrane . Two electrolytes flow through the electrodes e.g. catholyte flows through the cathode and anolyte flows through the anode .

More particularly the electrolytes included in the redox flow battery are metal ionic liquids. Thus a first metal ionic liquid flows through the electrode and a second metal ionic liquid flows through the electrode . The first metal ionic liquid can include an anion and a first cation e.g. a first ligand coordinated with a first transition metal and the second metal ionic liquid can include the anion and a second cation e.g. a second ligand coordinated with a second transition metal where the first and second transition metals can be the same or different and the first and second ligands can be the same or different . Reduction and oxidation reactions can occur in the first and second metal ionic liquids.

The flow battery further includes a tank and a tank in which the metal ionic liquids are stored. Moreover the flow battery can include a pump and a pump . The pump can cause the first metal ionic liquid to flow from the tank into the electrode where the first metal ionic liquid can flow through the electrode and return to the tank . Similarly the pump can cause the second metal ionic liquid to flow from the tank into the electrode where the second metal ionic liquid can flow through the electrode and return to the tank .

Further a circuit can be completed between the electrode and the electrode through a component . If the component is an electrical power source then the redox flow battery can be charged. If the component is an electrical power load then the redox flow battery can be discharged.

Conventional redox flow batteries commonly include electrolytes with electroactive materials e.g. metal salts dissolved in aqueous solvents. However water in aqueous solvents can hydrolyze above 1.5 Volts thus these conventional flow batteries typically do not support potentials above 1.5 Volts. Moreover aqueous solvents can be corrosive. Moreover when a non aqueous solvent is used instead for conventional electrolytes lower amounts of electroactive materials oftentimes are able to be dissolved thus resulting in lower energy densities.

In contrast in the redox flow battery the metal ionic liquids act as the electroactive materials and the solvents of the electrolytes e.g. catholyte and anolyte . Thus the metal ionic liquids can support higher energy densities compared to electrolytes of conventional redox flow batteries. Further the metal ionic liquids have negligible vapor pressure and are non corrosive. Moreover the metal ionic liquids can allow for potentials above 1.5 Volts.

Set forth below are seven exemplary metal ionic liquids referred to as Examples 1 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 that include an anion and a cation that comprises a transition metal and a ligand coordinated to the transition metal where the ligand includes a nitrogen containing functional group and an oxygen containing functional group. The seven exemplary metal ionic liquids are FeNH CHCHOH CFSO Example 1 CuNHCHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO Example 2 CuNH CHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO Example 3A CuNH CHCHOH CFSO Example 3B CuNH CHCHOH CFSO N Example 3C MnNH CHCHOH CFSO Example 4 and ZnNHCHCHOH CFSO Example 5 . It is to be appreciated however that other metal ionic liquids that similarly include an anion and a cation having a transition metal and a ligand coordinated to the transition metal where the ligand includes the nitrogen and oxygen containing functional groups are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

According to an example the metal ionic liquids can be synthesized by mixing a metal salt with six equivalents of either EA or DEA. Additional heating drives the reactions to completion. A color change is observed upon coordination of the ligand for Examples 1 2 3A 3B 3C and 4. The reactions are readily scalable and an analytically pure product is obtained in quantitative yield with a single step. Further the metal to ligand ratio can be altered to four in the case of divalent copper and zinc since these metals can have six or four coordinate geometries. While copper 2 ethylhexanoate and zinc triflate will react with four equivalents of EA the resulting compounds are extremely viscous and decompose quickly e.g. less than one day in air.

Example syntheses of the seven exemplary compounds are described below. In these exemplary syntheses all starting materials were from Aldrich or Alfa Aesar. Fe CFSO was recrystallized from hot CHCN.

A 2.00 g 3.98 mmol sample of recrystallized Fe CFSO was added to 2.51 g 23.9 mmol of NH CHCHOH in a 20 mL glass vial thoroughly mixed for several minutes and then heated to 115 C. in an oven for 15 20 minutes. Additional mixing was then performed by ultrasound for 5 minutes and the solution was again heated to 115 C. for 15 20 minutes yield 99.9 . IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3440 m 3309 sh 3094 w 2938 w 2862 m 1608 m 1453 m 1273 sh 1240 s 1224 s 1161 s 1061 s 1024 s 811 m 760 m 635 s 574 m and 515 m . Raman 1800 200 cm 1464 m 1227 w 1033 s 878 w 817 w 761 s 577 m 517 w 351 m and 317 m . Electronic spectral data 400 700 nm in BMI PF nm Mcm 477 63 . Density 1.44 0.06 g mL. Magnetic susceptibility 5.78 BM at 295 K. Anal. Calcd. for Fe NH CHCHOH CFSO C 28.6 H 5.87 N 7.41 F 15.1 Fe 4.9 S 8.5. Found C 28.0 H 5.76 N 7.33 F 14.7 Fe 5.0 S 8.8. MW 1134 g mol .

A 2.00 g 5.72 mmol amount of Cu 2 Et CCOO where 2 Et CCOO is 2 ethylhexanoate was added to ethanolamine 2.06 g 34.3 mmol in a 20 mL glass vial quickly heated to 200 C. and continuously stirred for approximately 10 minutes without additional heating. IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3234 m 3151 m 2955 w 2927 m 2871 w 2857 w 1738 m 1548 s 1456 m 1399 s 1312 m 1231 m 1161 w 1067 s 1032 s 869 m 802 m 761 w 729 w 673 w 521 w and 486 w . Anal. Calcd. C 47.0 Cu 8.87 H 10.1 N 11.7. Found C 47.3 Cu 8.8 H 9.9 N 11.5. MW 716.5 g mol .

Copper II 2 ethylhexanoate 2.00 g 5.72 mmol was added to diethanolamine 3.62 g 34.3 mmol in a 20 mL glass vial quickly heated to 200 C. and continuously stirred for approximately 10 minutes without additional heating. IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3219 s 2926 w 2826 w 1739 m 1560 s 1455 m 1402 m 1377 w 1309 w 1230 w 1217 w 1204 w 1052 s 919 w 864 w 800 m 731 w 640 w and 547 w . Anal. Calcd. C 49.0 Cu 6.48 H 9.87 N 8.57. Found C 48.7 Cu 6.8 H 9.9 N 8.5. MW 980.8 g mol .

A 2.00 g 5.53 mmol amount of Cu OTf where OTf is CFSO was added to diethanolamine 3.49 g 33.2 mmol in a 20 mL glass vial quickly heated to 200 C. and continuously stirred for approximately 10 minutes without additional heating. IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3406 sh 3285 w 2930 w 2875 w 1738 m 1612 w 1454 m 1365 w 1274 sh 1224 w 1161 m 1058 m 1025 s 943 w 880 w 814 w 758 w 636 w 573 m and 515 m . Anal. Calcd. C 31.5 Cu 6.40 F 11.5 H 6.70 N 8.47 S 6.46. Found C 32.1 Cu 6.5 F 11.7 H 6.8 N 8.3 S 6.8. MW 992.5 g mol .

A 2.00 g 3.21 mmol amount of Cu CFSO N was added to 2.02 g 19.3 mmol of diethanolamine in a 20 mL glass vial quickly heated to 200 C. and continuously stirred for approximately 10 minutes without additional heating. IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3522 m 3292 m 2940 m 2890 m 1456 m 1343 s 1325 sh 1228 sh 1191 s 1133 m 1050 s 983 m 913 w 873 w 813 s 791 m 740 m 653 w 610 m 569 m and 509 m . Anal. Calcd. C 26.8 Cu 5.06 F 18.2 H 5.30 N 8.93 S 10.2. Found C 26.1 Cu 5.1 F 17.7 H 5.6 N 8.9 S 9.9. MW 1254.7 g mol .

Manganese II triflate 2.00 g 5.66 mmol was added to diethanolamine 3.57 g 40.0 mmol in a 20 mL glass vial quickly heated to 200 C. and continuously stirred for approximately 10 minutes without additional heating. IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3299 m 2940 w 2849 w 1738 m 1455 m 1365 m 1247 m 1225 w 1164 s 1121 m 1027 s 937 m 802 w 760 w 637 s 574 w 515 m and 440 w . Anal. Calcd. C 31.7 F 11.6 H 6.76 Mn 5.58 N 8.54 S 6.52. Found C 30.6 F 11.2 H 6.8 Mn 5.6 N 8.8 S 6.7. MW 983.9 g mol .

Zinc II triflate 2.00 g 5.50 mmol was added to ethanolamine 1.32 g 22.0 mmol in a 20 mL glass vial quickly heated to 175 C. and continuously stirred for approximately 10 minutes without additional heating. IR ATR 4000 500 cm 3440 sh 3269 m 3172 w 2953 m 2892 w 1738 m 1545 m 1463 w 1366 w 1241 w 1224 w 1160 s 1066 m 1023 s 873 s 760 m 633 s 574 m 515 s and 443 w . C 100 MHz CDCN 121.0 q J 317 Hz 61.5 43.8. Anal. Calcd. C 19.8 F 18.8 H 4.64 N 9.22 S 10.6 Zn 10.8. Found C 20.3 F 18.1 H 4.5 N 8.9 S 10.5 Zn 11.0. MW 607.9 g mol .

The seven exemplary compounds were analyzed as set forth below. Magnetic susceptibility measurements were made on a Johnson and Matthey MK 1 balance and Pascal s constants were used to obtain a diamagnetic correction. The visible absorption spectra 300 700 nm were collected on a Shimadzu UV 3600. Elemental analyses C H N Cu F Fe Mn S and Zn were performed by Galbraith Laboratories Inc. Water content was measured using a Mettler Toledo DL32 Karl Fischer coulometer. Viscosity measurements were performed on a Brookfield DV E viscometer.

For Example 1 thermal analysis was measured with a Mettler Toledo TGA DSC 1 Ar flow and a TA Instruments DSC 2010 with a quench cooling accessory Nflow with 10 C. min heating. Infrared spectra were recorded for Example 1 on a Thermo Nicolet 380 FT IR equipped with a Smart Orbit Diamond ATR attenuated total reflectance accessory. Raman data were acquired for Example 1 on a Thermo DXR with a 633 nm laser. X ray fluorescence was performed for Example 1 with a Thermo ARL QUANT X analyzer.

For Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 thermal analyses were measured with a TA Instruments Q600 and Q2000 with an RCS 90 refrigerated cooling system . Infrared spectra were recorded for Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 on a Thermo Nicolet iS10 FT IR equipped with a Smart Orbit Diamond ATR accessory. Solution C NMR spectra were recorded for Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 on a Bruker Avance DRX spectrometer operating at 100 MHz. The chemical shifts are reported in the scale in ppm with the solvent indicated as the internal reference. Coupling constants J are reported in Hz and the splitting abbreviation used is q quartet.

For the seven exemplary compounds conductivity measurements were made using a Solartron 1255B frequency analyzer with a SI 1287 electrochemical potentiostat using a custom cell with 5 mm in diameter Platinum Pt working and Pt counter electrodes in a cofacial arrangement. This cell had a cell constant of 10 as determined by measuring a solution of known specific conductance. The sample was thermally equilibrated prior to measurement by placing the cell in an instrumented Tenney environmental chamber to control temperature. Cyclic voltammograms were collected using a BAS 100B potentiostat in a three electrode cell. The working electrode was freshly polished 3 mm diameter glassy carbon Pt wire was the counter electrode and the reference electrode was silver silver chloride Ag AgCl in 1 ethyl 3 methyl imidazolium chloride EMIC in 1 2 dimethyl 3 propyl imidazolium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide DMPI Im . Measurements were performed in a glove box under argon Ar .

Example 1 FeNH CHCHOH CFSO was synthesized in a single step complexation reaction. Infrared and Raman data suggested NH CHCHOH primarily coordinated to Fe III through alcohol groups. Example 1 had temperature for glass transition T and temperature for decomposition T values of 64 C. and 260 C. respectively. Cyclic voltammetry revealed quasi reversible Fe III Fe II reduction waves.

Example 1 was obtained by mixing the solid metal salt Fe CFSO with liquid NH CHCHOH in a 1 6 stoichiometry. The reaction was exothermic but additional heating drove the reaction to completion. A color change from almost white to red orange was observed upon coordination of NH CHCHOH . The reaction was a direct combination reaction rather than a metathesis reaction. If the color is green the iron is in the 2 oxidation state instead of 3. Moreover the presence of two simultaneously present functional groups alcohol and amine of NH CHCHOH was required to produce the metal ionic liquid e.g. assuming no change in hydrocarbon chain length . Reaction of Fe CFSO with either CHCHNHor CHCHOH alone failed to produce an ionic liquid.

Example 1 was evaluated by elemental analysis viscometry thermogravimetric analysis differential scanning calorimetry TGA DSC infrared Raman and ultraviolet visible UV Vis spectroscopy. The electrochemical properties of Example 1 were evaluated using cyclic voltammetry and impedance spectroscopy.

The stability of Example 1 was evaluated by thermogravimetric analysis TGA coupled with differential scanning calorimetry DSC and the results are shown in . In a weight change of Example 1 is illustrated as line a heat flow of Example 1 is illustrated as line and a weight change of NH CHCHOH is illustrated as line . No change in mass of Example 1 was observed up to 260 C. Under identical conditions NH CHCHOH alone started to evaporate around 200 C. This observation provided evidence that 1 NH CHCHOH was coordinated to Fe III and that 2 Fe CFSO was not simply dissolved in NH CHCHOH solvent. A DSC measurement of Example 1 was also performed using a liquid Nquench cooling accessory and the results are shown in illustrated as line . As depicted in there was a Tat 64 C. indicative of an amorphous glass reforming a liquid upon heating.

Cyclic voltammograms CVs of Example 1 which were performed with a glassy carbon working electrode at four different scan rates are illustrated in . A scan rate of 50 mV s is represented by line a scan rate of 100 mV s is represented by line a scan rate of 200 mV s is represented by line and a scan rate of 400 mV s is represented by line . The high viscosity and low conductivity of Example 1 prevented the direct acquisition of electrochemical data. As a result CV measurements were performed on a 0.011 M solution of Example 1 in BMI PF and stability was confirmed by UV Vis measurements. Example 1 displayed several quasi reversible waves associated with Fe III Fe II reduction and oxidation which were more resolved at slower scan rates. To further resolve these peaks an Osteryoung square wave voltammogram was acquired on Example 1 as depicted by line in . illustrates the Osteryoung square wave voltammogram of Example 1 with 1 mV steps sweep width amplitude of 25 mV and sweep width frequency of 15 Hz. The results show there were three waves. An explanation for this behavior is that the pendant CHCHOH groups of the NH CHCHOH ligands were coordinating to adjacent Fe III centers. This is consistent with the magnetic susceptibility measurement of Example 1 at 25 C. showing there was a small amount of antiferromagnetic coupling where the measured magnetic susceptibility was 5.78 BM at 295 K and the calculated magnetic susceptibility was 5.90 BM.

In Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 copper manganese and zinc based ionic liquids CuNHCHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO Example 2 CuNH CHCHOH CH CH CH CH CO Example 3A CuNH CHCHOH CFSO Example 3B CuNH CHCHOH CFSO N Example 3C MnNH CHCHOH CFSO Example 4 and ZnNHCHCHOH CFSO Example 5 were synthesized in single step reactions Infrared data suggested that ethanolamine preferentially coordinated to the metal center through the amine group in Example 2 and the hydroxyl group in Example 5. In addition infrared data suggested that diethanolamine coordinated through the amine group in Example 3A Example 3C and Example 4 and the hydroxyl group in Example 3B. Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 were viscous 1000 cP at room temperature but two of the Examples namely Example 3C and Example 4 displayed specific conductivities that are reasonably high for ionic liquids 20 mS cm . Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 each displayed a glass transition T below 50 C. The cyclic voltammograms CVs of Examples 2 3A 3B and 3C displayed a single quasi reversible wave associated with Cu II Cu I reduction and re oxidation while the CV of Example 5 showed a wave attributed to Zn II Zn 0 reduction and stripping. Example 4 displayed reversible Mn II Mn III oxidation and re reduction at 50 mV s using a glassy carbon working electrode.

Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 were synthesized by mixing the metal salt Cu 2 Et CCOO Cu OTf Mn OTf or Zn OTf with six equivalents of either EA or DEA. Additional heating drove the reactions to completion. A color change was observed upon coordination of the ligand for Examples 2 3A 3B 3C and 4 while a color change was not observed for Example 5. The reactions were direct combination reactions thus an analytically pure product was obtained in quantitative yield with a single step. The metal to ligand ratio was altered to four in the case of divalent copper and zinc since these metals can have six or four coordinate geometries. While copper 2 ethylhexanoate and zinc triflate reacts with four equivalents of EA the resulting compounds were extremely viscous and decomposed quickly e.g. less than one day in air.

Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 were evaluated by elemental analysis viscometry TGA DSC infrared and UV Visible spectroscopy and their electrochemical properties were evaluated using impedance spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. In addition C NMR was used to analyze Example 5.

Infrared spectroscopy was used to identify the preferred mode of coordination hydroxyl or amine in each of the Examples. Specifically shifts in the stretching frequencies of the infrared bands from 3500 3200 cm O H and 3100 2700 cm N H for the secondary amine DEA and from 3000 2800 cm O H and 3400 3100 cm N H for the primary amine EA were measured. illustrates infrared spectra of Cu 2 Et CCOO represented by line infrared spectra of Example 2 represented by line and infrared spectra of EA represented by line . The hydroxyl and amine bands of Example 2 were blue shifted by 15 cmand 60 cm respectively relative to EA. The larger shift of the amine group relative to the hydroxyl suggested EA preferentially coordinated through the amine. Similar observations were made for Examples 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 and the results are summarized in Table 1. Examples 1 3B and 5 preferentially coordinated through the hydroxyl group s while Examples 2 3A 3C and 4 coordinated through the amine.

It is noted that although the cations of Examples 3A 3B and 3C all included one Cu II and six EA ligands the preferred mode of coordination varied as a function of the anion e.g. 2 ethylhexanoate triflate or triflimide . depicts infrared spectra of Example 3A illustrated by line infrared spectra of Example 3B illustrated by line and infrared spectra of Example 3C illustrated by line each compared to infrared spectra of neat DEA illustrated by line . Accordingly shows the variation in preferred mode of coordination as a function of the anion e.g. larger shifts of the amine groups relative to the hydroxyl groups for Examples 3A and 3C and larger shift of the hydroxyl group relative to the amine group for Example 3B .

Physicochemical properties of the Examples 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 as well as Example 1 are summarized in Table 2. Similar to Example 1 high optical absorbance of Examples 2 3A 3B 3C and 4 prevented direct acquisition of UV Vis spectroscopic data. Therefore Examples 2 3A 3B 3C and 4 were dissolved in 1 butyl 3 methyl imidazolium hexafluorophosphate BMI PF6 and the resulting solutions were monitored by infrared difference spectra subtraction of solvent peaks to provide that PF was not coordinating to the metal centers. Each compound displayed a single wavelength of maximum absorption in the visible range attributable to d d transitions with extinction coefficients c that ranged from 31 244 Mcm. The UV Vis spectrum of 5 neat revealed a single at 312 nm.

Magnetic susceptibility measurements were used to confirm the oxidation state of the metals and results of such measurements are summarized in Table 2. No oxidation state changes were observed upon coordinating the ligands to the metal center. Antiferromagnetic coupling was observed in Example 1 iron compound and Example 4 manganese compound at room temperature.

All of the compounds were viscous at 25 C. and less than 2 ppm HO with viscosity numbers falling over a wide range 1295 13900 cP see Table 2 . Although the cations of Examples 3A 3B and 3C each included a divalent copper center surrounded by six DEA ligands the viscosity values span the highest and lowest numbers observed. Since Examples 3A 3B and 3C included different anions it is shown that viscosity was strongly influenced by the nature of the anion. A comparison of viscosity of Examples 3A and 3C versus Example 3B suggested the cation also had significant influence. Examples 3A and 3C displayed preferential amine coordination leaving only hydroxyl groups in the secondary coordination sphere. In contrast Example 3B displayed primarily hydroxyl coordination to the copper center leaving both hydroxyl and amine groups in the secondary coordination sphere see . As a result the cation of Example 3B had lower symmetry than the cations of Examples 3A and 3C. Lower symmetry cations can lead to a decrease in ion pairing and an increase in entropy that in turn leads to lower viscosity. It is noted that this trend holds for the Examples set forth herein regardless of the metal. The Examples containing DEA ligands that displayed preferential hydroxyl coordination had an order of magnitude lower viscosity than those with amine coordination. Although both Example 1 and Example 3B had hydroxyl coordinated DEA ligands Example 1 had higher viscosity than Example 3B because it had trivalent iron whereas Example 3B had divalent copper and therefore lower charge density.

The specific conductivities of Examples 2 3A and 3B at 25 C. and less than 2 ppm HO were low Table 2 and were an order of magnitude lower than Example 1 while Example 5 was about the same as Example 1. This was consistent with the viscosity of the compounds. Although Examples 3C and 4 were also viscous they displayed two and three orders of magnitude improved conductivities respectively. While this generally opposed the trend that lower viscosity leads to higher conductivity aggregation and correlated ionic motions can lead to anomalies that are not easily predicted by modeling and simulation studies. The activation energies of conduction E measured from Arrhenius plots ranged from 11.2 14.5 kcal molfor the Examples with low specific conductivity Examples 1 2 3A 3B and 5 and 1.1 4.8 kcal molfor the Examples with high conductivity Examples 3C and 4 . These values were consistent with the fact that typical activation energy values for highly conductive aqueous and molten metal salts are 3 5 kcal mol.

The stability of the Examples was evaluated by thermogravimetric analysis TGA and the onset temperature for decomposition T was measured. The results are reported in Table 2. Under identical conditions the onset of mass loss for EA and DEA is 170 C. and 200 C. respectively. The Tvalues for the Examples reported in Table 2 were higher than the pure ligand suggesting that the ligands were coordinated to the metal centers and the metal salts were not simply dissolved in either EA or DEA. Differential scanning calorimetry DSC was also used in order to determine melting T and or glass transition T temperatures. Each of the Examples displayed a single Tbelow 50 C. that was indicative of an amorphous glass forming a liquid upon heating.

Generally Examples 1 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 were metal containing ionic liquids MetILs prepared by the reaction of metal salts Fe OTf Cu 2 Et CCOO 2 Cu OTf Mn OTf or Zn OTf with six equivalents of either EA or DEA. Single step syntheses produced Examples 1 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5. The results show that Examples 1 2 3A 3B 3C 4 and 5 are members of a family of MetILs. Moreover it has been demonstrated that select physicochemical properties can be systematically altered by the appropriate choice of ligand s and anion s . The Examples set forth herein are viscous but Examples 3C and 4 displayed orders of magnitude improvement in conductivity over Example 1 and Example 4 displayed reversible electrochemistry.

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

