---

title: Method for securing indirect return channel and mobile digital broadcast receiver thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to a method for securing indirect return channel and mobile digital broadcast receiver, and more particularly, to a method for securing the indirect return channel for mobile digital broadcast receiver without internal Internet access capabilities by enabling indirect access to Internet using external Internet devices having internal Internet access capabilities, and a mobile digital broadcast receiver securing indirect return channel using external Internet devices with internal Internet access capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137583&OS=09137583&RS=09137583
owner: CREST TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09137583
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120530
---
The present invention relates to a method for securing indirect return channel and mobile digital broadcast receiver thereof and more particularly to a method for securing indirect return channel for mobile digital broadcast receiver without Internet access capabilities by enabling indirect access to Internet using external communications devices with Internet access capabilities and a mobile digital broadcast receiver for securing indirect return channel via the external communications devices with Internet access capabilities.

In general digital broadcasting services provide multichannel and multimedia broadcasting with higher quality of service in terms of video and audio quality than analog broadcasting services. Further digital broadcasting services also provide multifunctional and interactive broadcasting where multimedia contents are provided by the broadcasting channel with more efficient bandwidth usage. For interactive broadcasting services it is required to enable data transmission between broadcast receiver and remote data server using data return channel.

In digital broadcasting services a CAS Conditional Access System for enabling conditional access and regional restriction may be established through data transmission using return channel between broadcast receiver and remote CAS data server. Under CAS system broadcasting services may be available by periodically transmitting and receiving CAS related key through data transmission between CAS server and broadcast receiver.

A CAS system together with a subscriber management system is an essential system for providing subscription based broadcasting services. In contrast to terrestrial broadcasting system for providing TV program to unspecified people a CAS system allocates individual or group address to each subscriber to provide subscriber specific TV program or other services with more accuracy and convenience. Various additional services including pay per view PPV and near video on demand NVOD may be provided through the usage of CAS system.

The smart device such as smart phone smart pad and tablet PC may receive broadcasting signal and generate direct return channel for transmitting and receiving data to and from a remote data server using internal Internet access capabilities. User profile information such as subscriber administration data and subscriber s propensity for TV program may be collected in the remote data server via the direct return channel generated by the smart device .

Since collection of user profile information is essential to MDTV broadcasting business in commercial sense it is required to secure a data return channel from a mobile digital broadcast receiver to the remote data server. Currently MDTV broadcasting service providers use Internet channel using WiFi or 3G data communications as data return channel and thus the smart devices having internal WiFi and 3G data communications capabilities haven been selected as optimal receivers for MDTV broadcasting services.

However other types of mobile digital broadcast receivers without internal Internet capabilities such as portable DVD player portable navigation device PND car AV box portable game terminal and other type of multimedia display devices may not be used as the mobile digital broadcasting receiver since they are not supported with WiFi or 3G data communications for Internet connection.

It is needed to employ internal or external Internet access capabilities to the existing mobile digital broadcast receiver without internal Internet access capabilities to provide mobile digital broadcasting service with CAS which incurs additional manufacturing cost to device manufacturers for internal module and additional expenses to users for external module. The cost increase has been a non negligible business obstacle in providing digital mobile broadcasting services with CAS to both industry and users.

In view of the above according to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for securing indirect return channel for a mobile digital broadcast receiver comprising the steps of searching for external Internet devices with internal Internet access capabilities generating an inter device network connection by transmitting signals of a request for inter device network connection to one of the detected external Internet devices securing the indirect return channel between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and a remote server via the requested external Internet device and transmitting and receiving data used in digital broadcasting services to and from the remote data server using the indirect return channel.

The step of transmitting and receiving data may comprise the step of periodically receiving CAS data from the remote data server using the indirect return channel the remote data server being a CAS data server.

The step of transmitting and receiving data may comprise the step of periodically transmitting user profile information to the remote data server using the indirect return channel.

The step of searching for external Internet devices may comprise the step of searching for the external Internet devices upon receiving update request for CAS information.

The step of searching for external Internet devices may comprise the step of searching for the external Internet devices within a predetermined distance from the mobile digital broadcast receiver using a local area transceiver module.

The external Internet devices may include any type of external Internet devices connectable to Internet via 3G or WiFi data communications.

The communications technology for establishing the inter device network connection includes WiFi Bluetooth NFC RFID and USB.

The step of generating the inter device network connection may further comprise the steps of displaying the detected external Internet devices and receiving instructions for generating inter device network connection to one of the detected external Internet devices.

The step of generating the inter device network connection may further comprise the steps of displaying a selection menu when a multiple number of external Internet devices are found to be available for inter device network connection and receiving instructions for generating inter device network connection to the selected external Internet devices.

The step of generating the inter device network connection may comprise the step of generating the inter device network connection based on log data when a multiple number of external Internet devices are found to be available for inter device network connection.

The step of generating the inter device network connection may comprise the step of generating the inter device network connection based on the log data with the external Internet device with which the most recent inter device network connection has been established.

The step of generating the inter device network connection may comprise the step of generating the inter device network connection based on the log data with the external Internet device having the best inter device network communications quality.

The step of generating the inter device network connection may comprise the step of generating the inter device network connection based on the log data with the external Internet device having the best communications quality in the indirect return channel.

The method further comprises the step of performing user profile registration modification and cancellation through the indirect return data channel.

The method further comprises the step of providing additional services in VOD e commerce and game through the indirect return data channel.

The indirect return channel may be selected from a group consisting of digital CATV Cable Television channel DECT Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications channel PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network channel ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network channel LMDS Local Multipoint Distribution System channel ATSC M H Advanced Television Standards Committee Mobile Handheld return channel ISDB T Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting Terrestrial return channel and MATV Master Antenna Television channel.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a mobile digital broadcast receiver comprising a broadcast receiver module for receiving digital broadcasting signals a display module for displaying broadcast contents in accordance with the received broadcasting signals a transceiver module for searching external Internet devices with internal Internet access capabilities and transmitting signals of a request for inter device network connection to one of the detected external Internet devices to generate an inter device network connection and a controller module for securing an indirect return channel to a remote data server via the external Internet device using the generated inter device network connection and controlling the transceiver module to transmit and receive data used in broadcasting services to and from the remote data server.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the controller module controls the transceiver module to periodically receive CAS data from the remote data server and controls the broadcast receiver module to decode the received digital broadcast signals using the received CAS data.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may further comprise a storage module and periodically transmit user profile information stored in the storage module to the remote data server using the secured indirect return channel.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the transceiver module may search the external Internet device in response to an update request for CAS information.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the transceiver module may use at least one communications technology including WiFi Bluetooth NFC RFID and USB.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the external Internet device is connectable to Internet via 3G or WiFi data communications.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the controller module may control the display module to display at least one of the detected external Internet devices and receive instructions for generating an inter device network connection and generate the inter device network connection by transmitting signals of a request for inter device network connection to the at least one of the detected external Internet devices.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the controller module may control the display module to display a selection menu for selecting one of the detected external Internet devices when a multiple number of the external Internet devices are detected and generate the inter device network connection by transmitting signals of a request for inter device network connection to the selected external device when selecting input is received.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may further comprise a storage module storing log data regarding inter device network connection and the controller module may generate the inter device network connection by transmitting signals of a request for inter device network connection to one of the detected external devices based on the log data when a multiple number of external Internet devices are detected.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the controller module may generate the inter device network connection based on the log data with the external Internet device with which the most recent inter device network connection has been established.

In the mobile digital broadcast receiver the controller module may generate the inter device network connection based on the log data with the external Internet device having the best inter device network communications quality.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may further comprise a storage module for storing log data regarding the indirect return channel and the controller module may generate the inter device network based on the log data with the external Internet device having the best communications quality in the indirect return channel.

In conventional technologies for mobile digital broadcasting services where data transmission is required for CAS data and user profile data a mobile digital broadcast receiver having internal Internet access capabilities has been needed for generating return channel for collecting the CAS and user profile data.

However according to the present invention even a mobile digital broadcast receiver without internal Internet access capabilities may indirectly access Internet and generate indirect return channel using external Internet devices.

Using the methodologies for securing indirect return channel according to the present invention the scope of devices available for mobile digital broadcast service with CAS may extend to all kinds of mobile digital broadcast receivers even without internal Internet access capabilities and even more efficient and extensive collection of user profile has been available to the providers of the digital broadcasting services. In addition the indirect return channel according to the present invention may be used to provide additional value added services in VOD web browsing e commerce game and so forth. Importantly these benefits are acquired with no or only negligible increase in the cost burden to both industry and users.

The advantages and features of the present invention and methods of accomplishing these will be clearly understood from the following embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. However the present invention is not limited to those embodiments but may be implemented in various forms. It should be noted that the present embodiments are provided to make a full disclosure of the invention and also to allow those skilled in the art to know the full range of the invention. Therefore the present invention is to be defined only by the scope of the appended claims. Further like reference numerals identify like or similar elements throughout the specification.

In this specification the detailed explanations regarding the functions and structures of known elements may be omitted. Since the definition and wordings of the elements may vary depending on the users system operators or conventional rules they shall be interpreted considering the whole contents of the specification.

Each block of block diagram each step of flow chart and their combinations in the accompanied drawings may be implemented by instructions of computer program.

These computer program instructions may be installed in the processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or any other programmable data processing apparatus such as mobile digital broadcast receiver smart device or external Internet device. Thus these instructions executed by the processor of the computer or any other programmable data processing apparatus generate means for performing the functions explained in each block or step of the drawings.

These computer program instructions may be stored in the computer usable or computer readable memories adapted to a computer or any other programmable data processing apparatus. Thus one could manufacture a product containing the instruction means for executing the functions explained in each block or step of the drawings.

Further since computer program instructions may be installed in the computer or any other programmable data processing apparatus a series of operating steps can be performed by the computer or the apparatus to generate a computer executable process to execute the functions explained in each block or step of the drawings.

Still further the each block or step may be implemented as module segment or a part of codes employing at least one instruction for performing a specified logical function s .

Attentions shall be drawn to several alternative embodiments where the functions are performed in a different order from what is stated in the blocks or steps of the drawings. For example the two consecutive blocks or steps may be substantially simultaneously implemented or they could be executed in a reverse order according the functions designated by those blocks or steps.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present invention will be explained in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver includes a broadcast receiver module and transceiver module. The broadcast receiver module receives broadcasting signal to display TV program or other service contents on a display panel of the mobile digital broadcast receiver . The transceiver module enables inter device direct communications between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and external Internet device s with internal Internet access capabilities. The mobile digital broadcast receiver may include but not limited to portable DVD player personal navigation device PND car AV box portable game terminal car navigation terminal seat embedded display in cars aviators and trains notebook computers portable tablet PCs and other types of display devices without internal Internet access capabilities. The mobile digital broadcast receiver which may be interpreted as mobile digital TV MDTV within the scope of the present invention may include various types of portable display devices that are capable of receiving digital TV broadcasting signals and establishing inter device network connection with external Internet device s having internal Internet access capabilities.

While the mobile digital broadcast receiver does not have internal Internet access capabilities it may be directly interconnected with the external Internet device generate an indirect return channel to a remote data server via the external Internet device and secure the indirect return channel required for mobile digital broadcasting service with CAS.

The external Internet device may include but not limited to smart phone smart pad tablet PCs smart tablet mobile phone open WiFi AP access point and other types of portable communications devices having Internet access capabilities capable of data communications with the remote server through available mobile communications technologies such as 3G 4G LTE WiFi etc. Other types of communications technologies having Internet access capabilities such as satellite communications Public Switched Telecommunications Network PSTN and Wibro may also be employed in securing indirect return channel according to the present invention.

The inter device direct data communications between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the external Internet device may adopt various kinds of available communications technologies including but not limited to WiFi Bluetooth NFC RFID Zigbee USB Serial communications etc.

Using the above described configuration of the mobile digital broadcasting system mobile digital broadcasting services with CAS or other interactive data communications may be enabled using any mobile digital broadcast receivers even without internal Internet access capabilities.

In step the mobile digital broadcast receiver begins to search external Internet device with internal Internet access capabilities. For example the mobile digital broadcast receiver may search an external Internet device with internal Internet access capabilities located within a predetermined or accessible distance from the mobile digital broadcast receiver using a wireless local area network WLAN such as WiFi Bluetooth NFC or RFID.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may pre store profile information of the external Internet device based on prior search results and begin to search the external Internet devices corresponding to the pre stored profile information.

Further during TV broadcasting services the mobile digital broadcast receiver may begin to search nearby external Internet device in response to a request for update of CAS information.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may display a message using its display module to provide operation information regarding currently on going search to the user. It may also display a message asking the user to move to different location or to relocate the available external Internet devices to a nearby or accessible location.

However the direct communications or inter device connection between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the external Internet device may be implemented via a manual connection by the user using USB connection and in this case the search step may be omitted.

Next in step in completion with the search for external Internet device s with internal Internet access capabilities an inter device direct network communications between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the external Internet device is to be established. The inter device connection between the two devices may be established through transmission of signals for requesting inter device connection. The inter device network connection between the two devices may be generated by a wireless local area network WLAN such as WiFi Bluetooth NFC and RFID or a direct USB connection.

In a particular embodiment the mobile digital broadcast receiver may select an external Internet device with internal Internet access capabilities using pre stored log data and transmit a signal of request for inter connection according to the log data.

The log data pre stored in the mobile digital broadcast receiver may include information regarding inter device connection history network quality of return channel network quality of inter device connection the number of times being networked frequency of network connection etc. between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and one or more external Internet devices . The log data may also include information of return channel between the external Internet device and the remote data server regarding networking history network communications quality the number of times being networked frequency of network connection etc.

For example based on the log data the mobile digital broadcast receiver may establish an inter device network connection by transmitting a signal of request for interconnection to an external Internet device with which the most recent inter device network connection has been established.

For another example based on the log data the mobile digital broadcast receiver may establish an inter device network connection by transmitting a signal of request for interconnection to an external Internet device with the best network communications quality in inter device network connection .

For a further example based on the log data the mobile digital broadcast receiver may establish an inter device network connection by transmitting a signal of request for interconnection to an external Internet device which has established the most recent indirect return channel with the remote data server .

For another example based on the log data the mobile digital broadcast receiver may establish an inter device network connection by transmitting a signal of request for interconnection to an external Internet device which showed the best network communications quality in the indirect return channel to the remote data server .

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may transmit a request for generating an indirect return channel including the address of the remote data server to the external Internet device to enable the external Internet device to establish a return channel with the remote data server for use as an indirect data return channel between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the remote data server .

The mobile digital broadcast receiver and or the external Internet device may include pre installed software application s which allows them to establish an inter device network connection in step and to generate a return channel to the remote data server in step . The software application may be operated in a plug and play mode to enable automatic interconnection between devices and as well as automatic generation of indirect return channel for the mobile digital broadcast receiver .

Next data transmission on the indirect return channel is performed between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the remote data server through the external Internet device in step .

The data being transmitted may include any kind of information that may be used in connection with the provision of broadcasting services. In a particular embodiment the mobile digital broadcast receiver may periodically transmit and receive CAS data to and from the remote CAS data server via the indirect return channel .

Using the above described steps to the mobile digital broadcast receiver of the present invention may perform data transmission to the remote data server for providing various services without internal Internet access capabilities.

Upon completion of the searching step the mobile digital broadcast receiver may display the search results in step .

For example a menu screen of may be displayed when only one external Internet device with internal Internet access capabilities has been found to be available for inter device network connection and a menu screen of may be displayed when two or more external Internet devices with respective internal Internet access capabilities have been found to be available for inter device network connection . The menu screen will be further described in more detail with reference to

Referring back to the mobile digital broadcast receiver may receive user input through its user interface in step .

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may provide a user interface on its display module to a user and receive user input through the user interface such as in or on the display module.

The user may input instructions to confirm or select the target external Internet device with which an inter device network connection is to be established and the mobile digital broadcast receiver may receive the instructions through the user interface on the display module.

Next the mobile digital broadcast receiver may transmit a signal of request for inter device network connection to the selected or confirmed target external Internet device in step .

Next in response to the signal of request for inter device network connection the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the target external Internet device may establish an inter device network connection in step .

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may provide a user interface on its display module and the information on the user interface may include the search result window showing a detected external Internet device and a message asking for example Do you want a network connection with this device The user interface may also display a Confirm menu button . A more detailed text or graphical information may be further displayed in response to a cursor movement to the iconized images of the user interface .

A user may identify the detected external Internet device in the search results window and input confirmation instructions via the Confirm menu button to provide a signal of request for inter device network connection to the detected target external Internet device to establish an inter device network connection . This confirmation process may reduce the possibility of failure in generating inter device network connection .

For example the user may reduce the possibility of failure by confirming an external Internet device which has established the most recent inter device network connection with the mobile digital broadcast receiver . The user may also reduce the possibility of failure by confirming an external Internet device which showed the best quality in inter device network connection in the past.

For example as in the user interface may display search results window including a device selecting menu showing information about two or more external Internet devices that have been detected to be available for inter device network connection through the search process. The search results window may also include the iconized images for selecting the detected external Internet devices and a re search button for restarting the search process.

A more detailed text or graphical information may be further displayed in response to a cursor movement to the iconized images of the search results window .

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may indirectly connect to and transmit data to a remote data server such as CAS server through an external Internet device using an indirect return channel . The external Internet device may include any kind of Internet connectable devices using 3G and or WiFi data communications.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may include a broadcast receiver module a display module a controller module a transceiver module and a storage module .

The broadcast receiver module may receive broadcasting signal from available broadcasting service providers including but not limited to terrestrial broadcasting satellite broadcasting cable broadcasting and Internet broadcasting providers. The broadcast receiver module may tune to signals of particular frequency among a number of signals from antenna satellite receiver or cable.

The broadcast receiver module may include dedicated tuners for each of the terrestrial satellite and cable broadcasting services or include an integrated tuner for all these broadcasting services. The broadcast receiver module may include digital tuner analog tuner or digital analog integrated tuner. Further the broadcast receiver module may be tuned to user selected broadcasting signal or user selected broadcast contents received by antenna and transmit the broadcasting signal to the display module via the controller module .

The display module may display broadcast contents based on the broadcasting signal received from the broadcast receiver module and a user interface for showing for example guidance messages related to the control of the mobile digital broadcast receiver .

The transceiver module may generate inter device network connection to secure an indirect return channel to a remote data server through an external Internet device . The indirect return channel provides a data communications channel between the mobile digital broadcast receiver and the remote data server via the external Internet device .

The remote data server may be provided by a digital broadcasting service provider. The return channel may be selected from a group consisting of digital CATV Cable Television channel DECT Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications channel PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network channel ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network channel LMDS Local Multipoint Distribution System channel ATSC M H Advanced Television Standards Committee Mobile Handheld return channel ISDB T Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting Terrestrial return channel and MATV Master Antenna Television channel.

The transceiver module may search external Internet devices with internal Internet access capabilities within a predetermined distance from the mobile digital broadcast receiver and transmit signals of a request for inter device network connection to the external Internet device s . The transceiver module may be configured as a local area network module using WiFi Bluetooth or USB connection to make the inter device network connection with the external Internet device . The external Internet device having internal Internet access capabilities would also have a corresponding transceiver module such as WiFi Bluetooth and USB module for the inter device network connection.

The transceiver module may also search the external Internet device in response to an update request for CAS information. The update request may be received from the remote CAS data server and or generated according to a predetermined schedule stored in the mobile digital broadcast receiver .

The storage module may be composed of at least one storage devices including but not limited to RAM flash memory HDD etc. The storage module may store log data regarding the inter device network connection . The log data may also include log data regarding return channel generation received from the external Internet device . The log data stored in the storage module may include information regarding device networking history network quality the number of times being networked frequency of network connection etc.

The controller module may control the transceiver module to secure the indirect return channel through an inter device network connection with the external Internet device and transmit and receive data to and from the remote data server using the secured indirect return channel . The data to be transmitted may be any kind of data used for provision of broadcasting services including but not limited to subscriber information user login information user profile information such as age name sex and height information about viewing channel viewing hour viewing region viewing frequency EMM ECM CAS key favorite TV program or contents software application E commerce data T commerce data accounting data weather information regional news GPS location and TV commercials.

The mobile digital broadcast receiver may also transmit information such as type of the mobile digital broadcast receiver type of the external Internet device data communications protocol and data communications interface to the remote data server using the indirect return channel.

The controller module may enable the transceiver module to periodically receive CAS data from the CAS data server through the secured indirect return channel and control the broadcast receiver module to decode the digital broadcasting signals received from the broadcasting service providers not shown using the CAS data received from the CAS data server .

Referring back to the controller module may control the display module to display the search results of external Internet devices and receive confirmation input for generating inter device network connection and control the transceiver module to transmit signals of a request for inter device network connection to the confirmed external Internet device to form an inter device network connection .

Referring back to when a multiple number of external Internet device are found to be available for inter device network connection through the search process the controller module may control the display module to display the selection menu for selecting the detected external Internet devices on the user interface and receive selecting input for selecting target external Internet devices and control the transceiver module to transmit signals of a request for inter device network connection to the selected external Internet device to form an inter device network connection .

Still further when a multiple number of external Internet devices are found to be available for inter device network connection the controller module may control the transceiver module to transmit signals of a request for inter device network connection to external Internet devices with higher probabilities of secure connection based on the log data stored in the storage module .

For example based on the log data the controller module may control the transceiver module to establish an inter device network connection by transmitting a signal of request for inter device network connection to the external Internet device with which the most recent inter device network connection has been established or the controller module may control the transceiver module to establish an inter device network connection by transmitting signals of a request for inter device network connection to the external Internet device which showed the best network communications quality ever.

While the invention has been shown and described with respect to the embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes and modification may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

