---

title: Consular kiosks and methods
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide a method of implementing electronic transfers with government consulates. The method may include receiving, via the interface terminal, a selection of a country's consulate and a location of the consulate comprising a city in which the consulate has an office. The method may also include receiving, via the interface terminal, a consulate service selection. The method may further include receiving, at an input device, documentation necessary to complete the selected service type. The method may moreover include receiving, via the interface terminal, a payment for the selected service. The method may additionally include transmitting the service type selection, the documents, and the payment to the selected consulate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577798&OS=08577798&RS=08577798
owner: The Western Union Company
number: 08577798
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120620
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 392 959 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 225 987 entitled CONSULAR KIOSKS AND METHODS issued Jul. 24 2012 filed on Feb. 25 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for any and all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates in general to electronic transactions and more particularly to electronic transfers to and from government consulates.

Currently in order to interact with government consulates to obtain documents report vital occurrences e.g. deaths births marriages etc. among other services a customer must execute all transactions manually in paper form and pay any fees and or costs with a check or money order. As such interacting with consulates is time consuming labor intensive slow and provides for limited payment options. Accordingly improvements in the art are needed.

The present invention provides a method for implementing electronic transfers with government consulates. The method includes presenting an interface terminal to a customer. The interface terminal is configured to receive input from the customer. Further the method includes receiving via the interface terminal a selection of a country s consulate. The method further includes receiving via the interface terminal a consulate service type selection and receiving at an input device documentation necessary to complete the selected service type. Furthermore the method includes receiving via the interface terminal a payment for the selected service and transmitting to the selected country s consulate the service type selection the documents and the payment.

An alternative embodiment provides a system for implementing electronic transfers with government consulates. The system includes a kiosk having a terminal interface. The terminal interface is configured to receive input from the customer receive a selection of a country s consulate receive a consulate service type selection and receive a payment for the selected service. The kiosk further has a dynamic scanner configured to scan documentation necessary to complete the selected service type and a communications device configured to transmit the selected country s consulate the service type selection the documents and the payment to the selected consulate.

The system further includes a transaction processor in communication with the kiosk via the communications device. The transaction processor is configured to receive the service type selection the documents and the payment from the kiosk and transmit a service request. The system also includes a consulate system in communication with the transaction processor. The consulate system configured to receive and process the service request.

A further embodiment provides a machine readable medium for implementing electronic transfers with government consulates. The machine readable medium includes instructions for presenting an interface terminal to a customer. The interface terminal is configured to receive input from the customer. Further the machine readable medium includes instructions for receiving via the interface terminal a selection of a country s consulate. The machine readable medium further includes instructions for receiving via the interface terminal a consulate service type selection and instructions for receiving at an input device documentation necessary to complete the selected service type. Furthermore the machine readable medium includes instructions for receiving via the interface terminal a payment for the selected service and instructions for transmitting to the selected country s consulate the service type selection the documents and the payment.

Aspects of the present invention relate to providing electronic document and funds transfer to and from government consulate offices. Such a method and system provide customers with the ability to easily scan multiple documents of various size and shape as well as the ability to pay for services rendered from a variety of sources. Furthermore all required documents are able to be transmitted to the consulate office in a single file transaction. Hence the process of receiving services from consulate offices is stream lined and simplified.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrates a method of implementing electronic transfers to and from government consulates according to one embodiment of the present invention. At process block a terminal interface is presented to a customer. In one embodiment the terminal interface may be located in a kiosk machine. Alternatively the terminal interface may be at an automated teller machine ATM a personal computer a branch location via a web interface etc. Furthermore the terminal interface may be a touch screen which allows the customer to interact directly with the screen. Alternatively the terminal interface may be a display screen with a mouse a keyboard a touchpad etc. used to interact with the terminal interface.

In addition the terminal interface may present with customer with various options which the customer may select from. In one embodiment the customer may be given the option of entering in personal contact information process block . For example the customer may enter their name address phone number email address nationality etc. and the customer may also be able to create a user profile with a username and password. As such once the customer logs in the customer s information will automatically be populated. Further the customer s transaction history may be stored and displayed to the customer at login. Thus common transactions may be easily located and resubmitted modified tracked etc.

At process block a selection of the country of the consulate and the location of the consulate may be received. For example the terminal interface may present the customer with the option of either searching for a country by name or alternatively listing all countries serviced at the kiosk and allowing the customer to select their desired country. Furthermore once the customer has selected the country the location of the consulate may also be selected. For example the customer may select the French consulate and all of the locations of the French consulate may be displayed e.g. the Los Angeles location the New York location the Denver location etc. and then the customer can select the desired location by for example touching the location on the touch screen terminal interface.

At process block the customer may select the desired consulate service. For example once the consulate has been selected the terminal interface may display all of the possible services offered by that consulate. Some services may be for example registering a new birth registering a death requesting a birth certificate or requesting a passport or other official documents. It should be apparent that services may be offered additional to those listed and that each consulate will offer a different set of services based on their government structure etc.

Furthermore at process block the necessary documents may be input into the kiosk as required by the consulate for the desired service. For example in order to report a new birth the consulate may require the parent s passport and an official doctor s report of the birth. As such the customer may insert these documents into the kiosk so that they may be transmitted to the consulate. In one embodiment a dynamic scanner may be attached to the kiosk or in the housing of the kiosk to receive and scan the documents. In one embodiment the scanner may be able to adapt to the size shape texture thickness etc. of the document to be scanned. Hence the scanner would be a dynamic scanner.

At process block verification of the successful inputting of the documents may be received. For example as the documents are scanned the terminal interface may display the scanned documents for viewing by the customer. The customer may then be able to visually verify that the document scanned correctly. Alternatively the scanned document may be compared against a control document of the same document type in order to verify that the document scanned correctly. A database of control documents for each document type and each consulate may be stored in a storage device in the kiosk or available to the kiosk.

After the necessary documents have been properly scanned and any additional information has been inputted by the customer payment for the service s may be presented process block . In one embodiment payment may be made using for example cash check money order credit debit electronic funds transfer wire transfer money transfer e wallet e currency etc. The ability to pay for the consulate services using alternative payment methods other than check or money order provides a significant benefit to customers because presently consulates only accept check or money orders.

Once the necessary documents additional information and funds have been inputted into the kiosk they are then transmitted to the selected consulate process block . Alternatively these items may be transmitted to a processing agent and then the processing agent may forward the items to the selected consulate. Either way once the consulate receives the scanned documents the additional information and the payment funds the request may then be processed.

At process block the customer may receive a transaction confirmation from the consulate directly or through the processing agent. Additionally an update may be received as the process of filling the request is performed by the consulate. For example the customer may receive emails SMS text messages voicemails paper mail etc. indicating confirmation of the transaction or updated information about the transaction.

Turning next to a block diagram illustrates a system for implementing electronic transfers to and from government consulates according to one embodiment of the present invention. The system may include a terminal interface connected with a transaction processor and multiple consulate locations 1 2 N and connected with transaction processor . In one embodiment terminal interface may be the terminal interface described above in . Likewise transaction processor may be the processing agent as described in and consulate locations and may be the consulate location described in .

In a further embodiment terminal interface may be implemented in a kiosk and be configured to provide a customer with the consulate services as described in . Service options may be presented to the customer at terminal interface and the service selection may be transmitted to transaction processor to be processed. Furthermore a scanning device may be located at terminal interface in order to receive the necessary documents for the service to be rendered. Further transaction processor may then forward the request and documents to the selected consulate location i.e. one of consulate locations or . Accordingly the selected consulate location or may then transmit confirmation of the service request and or updates concerning the request to either transaction processor terminal interface or the customer.

Furthermore transaction processor may be configured to charge a fee for processing the consulate service request for the customer. For example the customer may be charged a flat fee for the service a per document fee a per service fee a percentage of the fee charged by the consulate for the service etc. Additionally the consulate may also be charged by transaction processor in the same or in a similar fashion.

Alternatively in the system includes a central consulate as opposed to individual consulate locations and . In this configuration instead of transaction processor interacting with individual consulate locations all transactions and or requests go to a central location which can save the consulate s country time and money.

Referring next to the figure illustrates one embodiment of terminal interface configured to facilitate electronic transfers to and from government consulates. Terminal interface may include a document interface and a communication device . Document interface may be configured to receive and scan the necessary documents for the selected service. Document interface may dynamically change its size and or shape to accommodate the document being inputted such that no matter the size shape texture thickness material etc. document interface is able to scan the document.

In addition communications device may be in communication with transaction processor and or consulates and or central consulate . Communications device may be for example a Wi Fi device a cellular device a modem a Bluetooth adapter a wireless radio a network interface card NIC a USB adapter etc. Accordingly documents payment funds and other information necessary to render the requested service may be transmitted using communication device to transaction processor and or consulates and or central consulate .

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements can include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration chips and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a numeric keypad a keyboard a touch screen and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer a sound card and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities mesh network etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system can also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs or Application Programming Interfaces APIs which may comprise computer programs of the invention and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention and or configure systems of the invention as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer . A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection with other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In one aspect the invention employs a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another machine readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various machine readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

A set of embodiments comprises systems for implementing location based money transfers. Merely by way of example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows e.g. Vista and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods of the invention as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and or web browser applications. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer cellular telephone Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant PDA capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and or navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments of the invention may operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network WAN a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols mesh network Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers or mainframe computers. Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more user computers and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one or more application servers which can include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods of the invention . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from clients including depending on the configuration database clients API clients web browsers etc. running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as web pages comprising HTML Javascript WML etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files e.g. application code data files etc. necessary to implement methods of the invention incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server . It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server or mainframe computer and or a plurality of specialized servers or mainframe computers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as the database can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

