---

title: Accessing content in a content-aware mesh
abstract: Content in a content-aware mesh may be accessed and/or manipulated. In one embodiment, a node may receive access to each of a plurality of images that are distributed among at least two nodes of a mesh. The at least two nodes may not be part of the same service. Accessing to each of the images may be performed without the node locally storing all of the images. The node may display an image of the plurality of images via a uniform interface without indication as to which of the nodes the image is stored on.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390155&OS=09390155&RS=09390155
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09390155
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120822
---
Digital cameras are now available in many devices e.g. cell phones tablet devices etc. beyond dedicated point and shoot or DSLR purpose built devices. This is has led to photographs being stored on multiple devices and or computers as well as various network services. Moving all of one s photographs to a centrally managed repository is often impractical because of the effort involved especially with large collections. Moreover many people do not want to move assets away from an existing collection or service because friends and family are accustomed to viewing them on a particular service. Consolidation management and a consolidated view of a user s photos across devices and platforms are not available with current solutions.

This disclosure describes techniques and structures for accessing and managing content in a content aware mesh. In one embodiment a node may receive access to each of a plurality of images that are distributed among at least two nodes of a mesh. The at least two nodes may not be part of the same service. Accessing to each of the images may be performed without the node locally storing all of the images. The node may display an image of the plurality of images via a uniform interface without indication as to which of the nodes the image is stored on.

In some embodiments the node may locally store information regarding each of the images in a database that is synchronized to the mesh. Information may include an identifier and a location pointer for each of the images. The node may access the images in an offline mode in one embodiment. The node may also access images that are stored on external services.

While the disclosure is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the embodiments to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. As used throughout this application the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an element includes a combination of two or more elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description which follow are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and is generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

 First Second etc. As used herein these terms are used as labels for nouns that they precede and do not imply any type of ordering e.g. spatial temporal logical etc. . For example in a content aware mesh that includes multiple nodes the terms first and second nodes can be used to refer to any two of the multiple nodes. In other words the first and second nodes are not limited to logical nodes and .

 Based On. As used herein this term is used to describe one or more factors that affect a determination. This term does not foreclose additional factors that may affect a determination. That is a determination may be solely based on those factors or based at least in part on those factors. Consider the phrase determine A based on B. While B may be a factor that affects the determination of A such a phrase does not foreclose the determination of A from also being based on C. In other instances A may be determined based solely on B.

Various embodiments for accessing and or manipulating content in a content aware mesh are described. This specification first describes a mesh of collaborating nodes e.g. computing devices such as tablet devices cell phones computers etc. that each may participate in the creation and management of a catalog that spans assets distributed on the various nodes. The specification then describes non destructive editing techniques and techniques for browsing content. Various examples and applications are also disclosed. Some of the techniques may in some embodiments be implemented by program instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium and executable by one or more processors e.g. one or more CPUs or GPUs of a computing apparatus. The computer readable storage medium may store program instructions executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing apparatus to perform the various techniques as described herein. Other embodiments may be at least partially implemented by hardware circuitry and or firmware stored for example in a non volatile memory.

Turning now to the figures is a block diagram that illustrates an example content collaboration system according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. In the illustrated embodiment system includes nodes and . Note that in other embodiments system may include other numbers of nodes. Nodes may also be referred to herein as computing device clients and or peers. In some embodiments node may be referred to as a coordinating node. Each of nodes and may be coupled to one another via a network not shown . The network may include any channel for providing effective communication between each of the entities of system . In some embodiments the network may include an electronic communication network such as the internet a local area network LAN wireless LAN WLAN WiMAX network cellular communications network or the like. For example the network may include an internet network used to facilitate communication between each of the entities of system . As shown in node may also be communicatively coupled to information management system IMS application store and external services . Application store may also be communicatively coupled to each of nodes and .

System may be referred to as a content aware mesh in that the relationship among components of the mesh may not be in a typical client server arrangement. Instead the various components may be peers in the mesh. In other embodiments node may operate as a server with client nodes and . Further in some embodiments e.g. for multi dimensional browsing the structure of the system may be any type of system even a single node system.

Content aware refers to the system s expectation of handling certain types of content e.g. images video etc. . Certain optimizations as described herein may result from the system being content aware. In the content aware mesh there may be more than one home for the content. The mesh may collect and or connect the content e.g. images from the plurality of nodes so that a user of the mesh has a single view into all of the content from anywhere e.g. connected to the internet or offline on any capable device .

Although the illustrated system includes four nodes and other examples include two nodes three nodes five nodes or any other number of nodes. Example nodes may include a number of devices such as tablet devices cellular phones set top boxes televisions cameras printers computers among others. For example a person using the content aware mesh may have a cellular phone tablet device and a laptop as three nodes that may connect to node and or external services via the content aware mesh. Each node may include various components e.g. processor s program instructions I O interface etc. that are not illustrated in such as the components shown in . Each node may be configured to implement a user interface such that a user may view edit or otherwise manipulate content that is distributed among the various nodes. Example user interfaces are shown in .

The nodes may be rich clients. For example nodes and may each include a database shown as databases and respectively. Databases and may be databases that are configured to maintain a mapping of content e.g. images stored on the various nodes. As one example node may include memory not shown that stores photos A A node may include memory not shown that stores photos B B and node may include memory not shown that stores photos C C. Databases and may each be configured to include a mapping of the full set of photos e.g. photos A A B B and C C . The mapping may include file name identifiers e.g. A and other information such as file location e.g. node size file type timestamp associated renditions and or revisions etc. The mapping may be structured as a database as shown or as another type of data store. The databases and may be updated periodically or may be updated upon occurrence of an event e.g. new photos added to the collection photos removed from the collection edits to any of the photos addition or deletion of a node addition or deletion of an authorized user etc. .

Node may be a coordinating node. In some embodiments node may be a cloud based web service. As shown other nodes may access node via firewall . Node may include a number of application servers which may be load balanced by load balancer . Application servers may be elastic compute cloud EC2 servers. Applications servers may be coupled to load balancer application store IMS external services via proxy node database servers and binary storage . Database servers may likewise be EC2 servers and may be coupled to database storage . Binary storage may be reduced redundancy storage RRS and database storage may be elastic block storage EBS .

As with the mapping that may be stored by nodes and node may be configured to store a similar mapping of content. For example node may be configured to store in binary storage and or database storage a mapping of content including identifiers location of content size etc. Node may also be configured to store at least some of the content. In some embodiments node may further be configured to store various renditions created by the various nodes. As used herein a rendition may include a low resolution e.g. less than full resolution half the resolution as the original etc. version of the original image and or a thumbnail of that version. The rendition may be based on one or more edits changes modifications to the original image. The renditions may be stored without replacing the original image. In doing so editing images may be non destructive such that the original content is maintained. Databases and may be synchronized to the corresponding database of node to maintain a synchronous mapping.

The load balanced servers of node may operate as a single unit to perform the following services to any peer node store a user s authentication information and ensure that access to the user s resources is restricted to only those who possess the necessary credentials store the user s subscription information and automatically bill the user for the service e.g. yearly monthly etc. store a copy of each user s account state catalogs of images assets within each catalog and revisions and renditions within those assets provide powerful query capabilities to enable other mesh nodes to retrieve that information while consuming minimal network resources and provide additional digital imaging services such as format conversion scaling rendering and so on such that other nodes lacking those capabilities can still effectively insert into and interact with the content stored in the mesh. Although node may include additional capabilities over other nodes of the mesh in some embodiments it may not be a central repository of all the mesh s information. Note that the disclosed non destructive editing and browsing techniques may be implemented where a single node does serve as a central repository.

External service s also referred to as a non collaborating node s may include various third party services that may be used to store content. For instance external services may include Facebook Flickr Google among others. In each of those examples a user may maintain content albums e.g. images video etc. on the external service. Application servers may access the content stored on or by external services via proxy node . Accordingly as an example a user of node may access images on external services via proxy node of node manipulate those images and update the images based on the manipulations. Note that such manipulations may be non destructive as described herein. Node may have knowledge of the application programming interfaces APIs provided by external services . The mesh may have access to external services via proxy node by maintaining log in information and synchronizing to the account in a manner that is transparent to a user of the mesh. The various nodes of the mesh may update content on external services and vice versa. From a developer s standpoint the developer may not need to know details of the external service s API as that interaction is abstracted by node and handled server to server for increased performance. In addition that layer of abstraction may shield the other mesh nodes from incompatible changes to those external service APIs.

Proxy node may provide a view into the content stored by external service s and allow for access and management of that content. In one embodiment assets may not be moved away from the originating service but instead an access token may be maintained. The assets may be referenced within the rest of the content shared amongst the collaborating nodes of the mesh. This may allow a comprehensive view of the user s entire asset collection regardless of which service actually stores the assets and without having to move them or disrupt their existing use of those services. Although proxy node is illustrated within node it may reside elsewhere in other embodiments.

IMS may provide a mechanism to authenticate a user of a node to access content of the content aware mesh. For example users of node and may be family members who have been approved to access to the content e.g. by an owner of the collection e.g. the user of node . Each user may be prompted to log in prior to accessing the content. A request to access content from a node may pass through node to IMS or may go straight to IMS . IMS may be configured to grant or deny access to the distributed content based on a user s credentials. Note that a user of a node for example node may access locally stored content on that node even when not granted access to the content distributed on various nodes.

Application store may include a number of applications that may be used to access the content aware mesh. For example a user of a node may purchase an application from application store . The application may be executed on one of the nodes such that the node may access the distributed content of the content aware mesh. Purchase may be a one time event or may be a subscription e.g. daily weekly monthly yearly etc. . Any subscription may also play a role in authentication by IMS . For example a node may be running an appropriate application to access the content but without a valid subscription. Upon attempting to access the content IMS may deny the node s access without a valid subscription.

Turning now to one embodiment of accessing content of a collaborative content sharing system is illustrated. While the blocks are shown in a particular order for ease of understanding other orders may be used. In some embodiments the method of may include additional or fewer blocks than shown. Blocks may be performed automatically or may receive user input. The method of may be performed in some embodiments by a node e.g. node of .

As illustrated at access may be received to a plurality of images that are distributed among at least two nodes of a content aware mesh. In one embodiment the two nodes are not part of a same service. For example if a single node is made up of multiple servers of the same service e.g. a user s Flickr account the multiple servers may not be counted as separate nodes instead the multiple servers of the same service may collectively be considered as a single node. Accordingly if a user of Flickr as part of a Flickr photo album has images stored on several Flickr controlled servers those images are considered to be stored on a single node. Examples of nodes that may be included as one of the nodes may be nodes and or and or proxy node that corresponds to external service the proxy node may represent the Flickr servers in the above example as a single node . In a simple example the at least two nodes may be node and node . In such an example the images may be distributed between nodes and . In other examples a user may have a variety of devices e.g. tablet phone computer each representing a node. Or a family of users may be linked to the mesh such that user A has a device node user B has a device node and user C has a device node with each device coupled to each other device and to device .

An example image collection may include 25 000 images. 20 000 may be stored at node and 5000 may be stored at node . In one embodiment node may be a user device such as a tablet device while node may be reside on a cloud service. Access to the images may be received by a node without locally storing all of the images. Thus in the 25 000 image collection example above node may have access to all 25 000 images without locally storing all 25 000. Thus access to the 5000 that are stored remotely from node may be received by node . Access may include the ability to edit images including non destructive editing as described herein. In some embodiments node may receive and locally store at least temporarily an image that is being edited. In other embodiments editing may be performed by node without having a local copy of the original image stored locally.

In some embodiments receiving access may be via a coordinating node of the mesh. For example node of may be a coordinating node of mesh . As described herein the coordinating node may include a plurality of load balanced servers. Receiving access may include requesting access and receiving authorization from IMS . In other embodiments nodes may directly access content from other nodes without going through a coordinating node. In those embodiments a similar authentication may take place or the nodes may be initially configured as trusted nodes e.g. on a home network by MAC address etc. .

At an image of the plurality of images may be displayed. Display of the image may be performed via a uniform interface without indication as to which of the at least two nodes the image is stored on. Accordingly the source of the image e.g. external service s node etc. may be transparent to a user of the uniform interface such that the full collection of images may appear to be collocated even though they are distributed among the nodes. Note that the uniform interface may display more than a single image at a time. See A E for an example of a single image displayed without indication as to which node the image is stored on and for a multiple image display example.

Displaying of an image or images on an interface of a node may be performed in an offline mode e.g. when the node is not connected to the mesh . For example any images that are currently being edited by the node may be locally stored on the node. Or a user of the node may initiate an offline preparation technique that allows some content to be downloaded from the various nodes to a node in anticipation of an offline period e.g. a flight without Wi Fi access etc. . Upon reconnecting to the mesh the node may automatically synchronize the plurality images to the mesh. For example synchronizing may include uploading textual information describing edits to content. Synchronization may take place via a cloud service e.g. node or may be performed directly between peer nodes e.g. node node proxy node etc. . In one embodiment automatically synchronizing may include the node notifying other nodes of the mesh of any changes the node made to the plurality of images. Automatically synchronizing may also include receiving an update to any of the plurality of images that changed e.g. by other nodes during the time the node was not connected to the mesh. Note that synchronization also occur at other times such as periodically e.g. daily hourly etc. or upon an event e.g. a node s initial connection to the mesh submitting edit information etc. and is not limited to a node reconnecting to the mesh.

In some embodiments information regarding each of the plurality of images may be stored in a database of the node receiving access at . As described herein the database may be a mapping that includes a variety of information such as an identifier and a location pointer for each image. The database of a given node may be synchronized to the mesh. For instance each node may include a database that is synchronized to the other databases such that each node has a complete view of available content. The database may also be synchronized to a master copy of the mapping. In one embodiment each node s database may be synchronized to the database of a coordinating node. As such the coordinating node may be configured to store information regarding each of the images.

In various embodiments edits may be received to an image via the uniform interface. The image may be stored remotely at another node and a lower resolution copy of the image may be available locally at the node that is performing the edits. Or a local copy of the original image may be used to perform the edits. In any event textual data corresponding to the edits may be transmitted to the other node that is storing the image. The other node may be configured to apply the textual data to the image resulting in an updated version of the image. Note that the updated version may not replace the original but instead may be another version. The textual data may be transmitted directly to the other node or it may be performed via the coordinating node of the mesh. For example the coordinating node may pass the textual data to external services via a proxy node. In embodiments where the coordinating node provides the textual data to another node it may first store the textual data in its database.

Transmission of data may be highly selective. Because each node of the mesh may maintain a synchronized database and is aware of the mesh s contents the node may selectively request just the asset components e.g. revisions renditions etc. that it wants to display a catalog. For example a user of node may wish to edit an image on node . Node may download the original version of the image from node to edit the image. Other images that the user of node only wishes to view may not be downloaded locally to node . Or a user of node may wish to view a series of edits made by other nodes to images stored locally on node . Node may only download the revisions and apply them locally or may download the low resolution renditions. Either way network resources may be conserved as opposed to a node downloading many full resolution images or the entire collection of images.

In one embodiment an interface may allow the node implementing the method of to invite other nodes to join the mesh. Those other nodes may represent other devices of the user of the node or other users. This may allow the other devices and or other users to access and edit the content.

Turning now to one embodiment for facilitating content sharing in a collaborative content sharing system is illustrated. While the blocks are shown in a particular order for ease of understanding other orders may be used. In some embodiments the method of may include additional or fewer blocks than shown. Blocks may be performed automatically or may receive user input. The method of may be performed in some embodiments by a node e.g. a coordinating node such as node of .

As illustrated at information associated with each image of a plurality of images may be stored by the coordinating node which as described herein may be a cloud based plurality of load balanced servers. As described at the images may be distributed among at least two nodes which are not part of a same service of a content aware mesh. As described herein information may include file name identifiers e.g. A and other information such as file location e.g. node size file type timestamp associated renditions and or revisions etc.

The coordinating node may also store authentication information. Providing access to the images to various nodes may be based on the stored authentication information. Authentication information may include MAC addresses stored usernames and or passwords subscription information access tokens encryption certificates etc. Each node of the mesh may have a corresponding set of authentication information that is stored at the coordinating node. In one embodiment access may be limited to nodes that the coordinating node authenticates.

At access to each image may be provided to a node of the mesh. In one embodiment access may be provided by the coordinating node. Providing access may be performed without the coordinating node transmitting all of the images to the node. For example the node may have access to images that are stored on other nodes without locally storing all of those images. In some embodiments the coordinating node may be configured to provide access to each image to another node of the mesh. The coordinating node may receive a request by that other node to access the images. Such a request may be in the form of the other node providing log in credentials or may take place automatically upon the other node connecting to the mesh. If the other node is authorized the coordinating node may provide access to the images. Providing access may be performed without transmitting all of the images to the other node.

As shown at the node may be configured to display an image of the plurality of images via a uniform interface without indication as to which of the nodes the image is stored on. The uniform interface may be the interface described at block of . Example interfaces are shown in .

In one embodiment the node may be configured to edit the images. As part of editing the images the node may be configured to generate textual data describing an update to the image e.g. an image that is stored remotely or one that is stored locally . The coordinating node may receive the textual data from the node without receiving the original image being edited. The coordinating node may then store the textual data. In one embodiment for example if the original image being edited is stored remotely from the node and coordinating node the coordinating node may provide the textual data to the node storing the original image. The node that stores the original image may be configured to generate an updated version of the image e.g. a less than full resolution version .

In one embodiment the coordinating node may update the stored information associated with an image. Updating the stored information may include adding a new set of textual data representing edits to an image. For instance textual data corresponding to a previous edit may have already existed in the database. The next textual data may be merged with the currently received textual data to form a list of edits. Such edits may both refer to the original version of the image or the later received edits may build upon a previously made edit. Edits may be non destructive in that making an edit and storing the corresponding textual data may not overwrite the original image or previous edits. Note that outside the editing context an original image and or previous edits may be replaced or deleted if explicit instructions to do so are received.

In one embodiment the coordinating node may receive a request from the node to perform image processing on one or more of the images and the coordinating node may perform such image processing. Image processing may include applying the textual data to the original image to generate a modified version of the image without replacing the original image. The modified version may be a low resolution preview. Image processing may also include generating a thumbnail of the modified image. In other embodiments the node may be configured to generate the textual data preview and or thumbnail and provide each to the coordinating node. The coordinating node may receive the textual data preview and or thumbnail and store each of them. Or as described herein the coordinating node may serve as a conduit to provide the textual data to the node storing the original image.

In one embodiment a proxy node may be created by the coordinating node to connect the mesh to a non collaborating node or external service e.g. Flickr Google etc. . A token may be maintained by the coordinating node that allows nodes of the mesh to access images stored by the external service. Such access may allow a user to transparently access those images.

The content aware mesh of may provide a number of benefits. As one example four users may wish to share content among each other and each user may wish to access the content from a number of their own devices e.g. tablet device computer . Thus the mesh supports a multi user multi device configuration. User A may refuse to use any service other than flickr user B may prefer to use a different service user C may spread images on a variety of services and user D may also spread images on a variety of services and store other images locally on multiple devices. The content aware mesh may provide full access to the content in a seamless interface such that it is transparent to Users A D of where the actual content is stored. The content aware mesh of may also allow users to operate in an off line manner. Further network traffic may be minimized by allowing selective transmission of data e.g. only transmitting textual data describing changes instead of full resolution modified images .

Turning now to one embodiment of non destructive content editing is illustrated. While the blocks are shown in a particular order for ease of understanding other orders may be used. In some embodiments the method of may include additional or fewer blocks than shown. Blocks may be performed automatically or may receive user input. The method of may be used in conjunction with the methods of and or . Accordingly a combination of some or all of the blocks of and or may be used in some embodiments. In one embodiment a node such as node may perform the method of .

As illustrated at an input may be received via an interface displaying an image of a plurality of images. The input may be received by a node among a plurality of nodes in a distributed collaborative environment. The input may indicate a change regarding the image. The change may affect the visual appearance of the image. Changes may include adding a tag to an image e.g. outdoor scene beach etc. and or may include substantive edits such as contrast white balance exposure etc.

Example inputs that indicate a change regarding the image may be seen in . illustrates a selection of the Looks button of the example user interface. Selection of Looks presents a variety of look options including normal silvered dream sepia among others. illustrates a selection of the Adjustments button of the example user interface. Selection of Adjustments may cause additional selection options to appear that allow a user of the interface to adjust sliders for white balance exposure and contrast. An automatic adjust button may also be included in the interface. illustrates that selection of Exposure from may present further options such as exposure highlights and shadows. illustrates selection of a crop and rotate feature along with further possible selections. Each of includes an apply button which may allow a user to view the changes. In other embodiments adjusting a slider or clicking auto may automatically cause the display to update to reflect the changes. The examples in also show a back button and a cancel button to allow edits to be canceled and to exit the editing mode.

As shown at the node may receive another input via the interface to finalize the change. illustrates an example of such an input. A Develop button may be presented which allows a user to finalize the change. The button may be presented for example where a user has made edits and has exited from the editing mode of .

At in response to the other input the node may generate a rendition that reflects the change applied to the image without replacing the original version of the image. In applying the change without replacing the original version of the image the edit may be referred to as non destructive. The rendition may include a thumbnail and a rendered preview of an adjusted version of the image based on the change. Each of the thumbnail and the rendered preview may be a lower resolution than the original image. In other embodiments another node e.g. a coordinating node or node storing the original image may generate the rendition.

In various embodiments the node may transmit textual data corresponding to the change to another node of the plurality of nodes. The textual data may be metadata or other data. The textual data may be transmitted alone to the other node. Or in one embodiment the rendition that includes the thumbnail and rendered preview may also be transmitted to the other node. The other node may be configured to store the textual data and the rendition. In some embodiments the other node may be configured to receive other textual data corresponding to other changes and or another rendition received from a node other than the node. For instance the other node may be a coordinating node e.g. node the node e.g. node or proxy node . The other node may be configured to receive textual data and or renditions from a variety of different nodes. The textual data and renditions from various nodes may relate to the same image. For example a user of node and a user of node may each edit the same image during an overlapping or non overlapping time period. Each of node and node may perform blocks and and may transmit corresponding textual data and or a rendition each relating to the same image.

In one embodiment the node may receive an indication that a different rendition or multiple different renditions of the image that reflects a different change was created by a different node and is currently stored in a data store. An example scenario of when this may occur is the aforementioned overlapping editing of the same image by the node and a different node. Users of nodes and may choose to edit the same image at the same time. The user of node may finish editing the image and finalize the changes resulting in textual information being transmitted to the coordinating node. The coordinating node may then transmit an indication that a different rendition of the image that reflects the change made by node is available. That indication may be received by node . The node receiving that indication may then receive a selection to the interface indicating which rendition to keep. Such a selection may be received at the time node receives the other input to finalize its change. The selection may indicate to keep the rendition from the different node keep both or multiple ones of the renditions or to only keep the rendition from the node and delete replace the rendition s from the different node s . A selection to keep the rendition from the node may include transmitting the textual data and rendition to the other node.

Note that multiple changes may be received at before the changes are finalized at . In such a case the multiple changes e.g. changes to white balance and contrast etc. may be transmitted as a single revision e.g. a single rendition and textual information that includes the multiple changes . In one embodiment the multiple changes may come from more than one device. For instance a user may begin making edits on a tablet device e.g. node and finish making edits on their laptop e.g. node . In such an example the first set of changes made on the tablet device may be transmitted directly to the laptop without sending them through the coordinating node. In other embodiments the first set of changes may be made available to the laptop via the coordinating node. Instead of a finalize input a user may choose a save changes option or similar option such that the in progress edits may be continued from another node.

Turning now to another embodiment of non destructive content editing is illustrated. While the blocks are shown in a particular order for ease of understanding other orders may be used. In some embodiments the method of may include additional or fewer blocks than shown. Blocks may be performed automatically or may receive user input. The method of may be used in conjunction with the methods of and or . Accordingly a combination of some or all of the blocks of and or may be used in some embodiments. In one embodiment a coordinating node such as node of may perform the method of .

As illustrated at textual information that describes a change regarding an image of a plurality of images may be received from a node in a distributed collaborative environment e.g. the content aware mesh of . The textual information may describe a change regarding an image of a plurality of images. As described at block changes may include adding a tag to an image e.g. outdoor scene beach etc. and or may include substantive edits such as contrast white balance exposure etc. The textual information may also be referred to herein as collections of settings or adjustment parameters.

As shown at the received textual information may be stored in a data store. The data store may be a database such as one or more of binary storage and or database storage . Other information may be stored in the same data store. For instance as described herein a mapping of content distributed among various nodes may be stored in the data store. The received textual information may correspond to a given image of the plurality of images. Other received textual information and or other rendition s may also exist in the data store. For instance the other textual information and or rendition s may correspond to other images of the plurality of images or may correspond to other edits to the same image. Those other edits to the same image may have been received from any one or more of the nodes. An editor using node may make a number of different edits to the same image and upload the textual information corresponding to each edit. One edit may correspond to a black and white version another edit to a sepia version and another edit to a cropped version. In other examples various edits may come from different nodes. For example different family members who are members of the mesh may practice different editing principles and may have different ideas of how to properly edit a photo. Accordingly each family member may submit a different edit via their respective node.

In one embodiment receiving textual information corresponding to an image for which textual information is already stored e.g. the image has previously been edited may cause the coordinating node to send an indication to the node indicating that other textual information exists. As described at the node may select one or more renditions and or textual information to keep in the data store. Accordingly the coordinating node may receive a selection to keep one or multiple ones of the renditions and or textual information. If the selection is to replace a previously stored rendition and or textual information the storing of block may include replacing the previously stored textual information. If the selection is to keep one or more previously stored renditions and or textual information then storing may include storing the new rendition and or textual information in addition to the already stored rendition s textual information. Storing multiple edits may include appending metadata from multiple pieces of textual information into a single new piece of textual metadata or storing multiple edits may include separately storing the textual information in the data store.

At application of the textual information to an original version of the image may result in a modified version of the image in addition to the original version. In this manner editing may be non destructive in that the original version is maintained. Application of the textual information may be provided by the node the coordinating node and or a different node. Examples of the scenarios follow. As described herein whichever node applies the textual information may do it such that the edits are non destructive.

In one embodiment the received textual information may be provided to another node. The other node may be configured to apply the textual information to the original version of the image resulting in a modified version of the image in addition to the original version. As one example coordinating node may receive textual information corresponding to a change to an image from node . Coordinating node may then provide the textual information to node to apply the textual information to the original version. Note that in this example node may store the original version of the image that was edited by node .

In some embodiments in addition to receiving textual information from the node the modified version of the image in the form of a rendition may also be received from the node. In such embodiments the node that generated the textual information may also generate the rendition that includes the modified version and or a thumbnail. The modified version may be a low resolution version e.g. less than full resolution less than the resolution of the original version of the image. The rendition may be stored. Other nodes may have access to view such renditions so that they may not have to perform their own image processing to view what the modified looks like.

Each other node client may be made aware by the coordinating node of the presence of new renditions and or textual information. This may be done at the time the new rendition and or textual information is received or periodically or upon some other event e.g. query by a node a node entering an edit mode for a particular image etc. .

The stored textual information may be a linear list of changes that have been made. Such stored information may be accessible by various nodes such that a node may view available renditions and or a list of metadata collection of settings. The metadata and or collection of settings may be translated into human understandable information descriptive of the changes.

In some instances a change may not result in a newly generated preview or rendition. For example a user of a node may tag a photo which may not visually affect the image. In such an example the textual information may simply be the new tag which may be uploaded by a node and received by the coordinating node. Because a new rendition and thumbnail may not be generated if the image is not visually affected the node may not transmit and the coordinating node may not receive a rendition and thumbnail with such a change.

In one embodiment the coordinating node may receive the textual information and also have access to the original version of the image. Accordingly the coordinating node may apply the textual information to the original version resulting in the modified version.

The disclosed non destructive editing techniques of may permit multiple users to exchange multiple versions of edits in a collaborative fashion. Additionally using lower resolution renditions allows clients to display the edits without needing to re render them locally and results in less required storage space. Moreover the disclosed conflict resolution allows multiple access at the same time and provides a manner to resolve conflicts.

Turning now to one embodiment of browsing content is illustrated. While the blocks are shown in a particular order for ease of understanding other orders may be used. In some embodiments the method of may include additional or fewer blocks than shown. Blocks may be performed automatically or may receive user input. The method of may be used in conjunction with the methods of . Accordingly a combination of some or all of the blocks of may be used in some embodiments. In one embodiment a node such as node of may perform the method of

As illustrated at images from a plurality of images may be assigned into a plurality of groups or collections. Each of the groups may include at least one of the images. The groups may be defined by a tag such that each respective image belonging to that group includes the same tag. Note that images may include multiple tags but may be grouped according to a common tag with other images of the same group. In one embodiment a tag may include a date e.g. date the photo was taken date the photo was downloaded to the node etc. . The date may reside in the image s metadata. The granularity of a group by date may vary. For example a group may be defined by a year a month or a date the image was taken among others. Tags may be a key word such as outdoor scene 40th birthday party etc. Tagging may be by status such as which photos have been uploaded to an external service. Tagging may be automatically performed e.g. by database query or may be user specified e.g. defined by a user as being from an event like a wedding birthday party etc. . In one embodiment tagging may initially be automatically performed but may be refined manually. Renditions may be assigned to the same group as the corresponding original image.

Within each group the images may be partitioned into a sequence. For example the images may be ordered by timestamp of the images. The timestamp may be the time the image was taken or the time the image was last edited. Or images may be ordered in a different manner such as by file size or name.

As shown at an interface that includes first and second dimensions may be displayed. Various examples are shown in and . The interface may allow browsing in the first dimension among the plurality of groups. The interface may also allow browsing in the second dimension among one or more images within a group. As one example of an interface with two dimensions e.g. vertical and horizontal groups may be scrolled vertically and within each group images may be scrolled horizontally. Browsing or scrolling may be accomplished by various inputs e.g. mouse pointer gestures such as touch gestures etc. . Note that an interface may include three dimensions and have browsing ability in each of the three dimensions e.g. x y and z .

In one embodiment the interface may display as many images e.g. thumbnails that may be fit on the display. The thumbnails may include be fixed width or in some embodiments may be variable width. For a variable width thumbnail implementation a layout may be created beforehand using the aspect ratios of the images. In contrast to an implementation in which an entire set of images are downloaded in one embodiment the images that are visible on the display for the group or groups may be the ones that are downloaded. Other images may later be prefetched and fetched as needed as described herein. This may allow large amounts of data as can be the case with image and or video content to be efficiently handled by not having to populate it all at once.

At a request to prefetch image data in at least one of the dimensions may be generated. Generation of the request to prefetch data may be based on an anticipation to display the image data. Anticipation to display the image data may be based on a number of factors such as the speed and or direction of browsing and or the use of variable width thumbnails. As an example if a user is slowly browsing images of one of the groups from left to right on the display and uses a gesture to bring in images to the display screen from off the right side of the screen images that are next in the sequence from off screen right may be prefetched. If a user is rapidly swiping from right to left to move much farther into the images of that group the immediately next images in the sequence may not be prefetched based on the speed of the browsing. Instead those images may be skipped and image data corresponding to images later in the sequence may be prefetched.

In some embodiments to generate the prefetch requests the node may know the full list of groups and associated images. The node may calculate the full list for example by fetching the information over the web or by calculating it by using a database query. Based on which tracks are visible on the screen those images may be fetched. A default view may exist such that starting images are already fetched and ready to display. One example default view may be the topmost group s and leftmost image s of those group s .

In one embodiment some amount of overscan may be performed such that image data for nearby images are prefetched in one or more of the dimensions to allow a user of the interface to scroll in any direction and readily have those nearby images available. If the interface is not actively being manipulated to scroll in any direction prefetches may occur in each direction because it may not be known which direction is most likely to be displayed next. If the interface is actively being scrolled vertically then most or all of the prefetching may be done in the vertical dimension in the same direction of scroll e.g. up or down . Similarly if the interface is actively being scrolled horizontally then most or all of the prefetching may be done in the horizontal dimension in the same direction of scroll e.g. left or right . As noted above if the interface is being scrolled rapidly then nearby image data may not need to be prefetched and instead the prefetch requests may be generated for image data corresponding to images farther away in the sequence.

In various embodiments the request to prefetch image data may be executed and the image data may be prefetched. The display may then be updated with the prefetched image data. Note that according to the prefetch parameters the prefetch may be completed before the data is needed for display. As a result the display may be updated later and not necessarily immediately upon prefetching the data. For instance assume a display of a node allows 3 rows of 5 images to be displayed at one time. Let the middle row be the row being scrolled and prefetched. The middle row may include thousands of images. If the middle row is being scrolled in a given dimension the number and which images to be prefetched may vary based on the rate of scroll. Note that the requests to prefetch may be individual requests for each image such that the prefetches each corresponding to a given image may be offset by some time delta. But to keep the explanation simple assume in a simple example that the next five images in the sequence after the five currently displayed in the middle row may be prefetched at a time t. Only two of the images may be needed to display at time t 1 whereas the remaining three prefetched images may not be needed to display at time t 2. Accordingly the three other prefetched images may be held in the node s local memory ready to display at time t 2 or whenever the display is in fact scrolled to where those images would be needed . In one embodiment multiple fetches may be executed simultaneously and asynchronously.

In one embodiment the request to prefetch image data may be canceled. Canceling the request to prefetch image data may be based on a determination that prefetching the image data has not been initiated and that displaying the image data is no longer anticipated. One example scenario in which the request may be canceled includes a user scrolling within a group to view images off to the right of the screen. A user may subsequently stop scrolling and may change direction of the scroll such that that likelihood of displaying the next images in the sequence from the original scroll direction is very low. Note that if the prefetch has already begun the request to prefetch may not be canceled even if it is no longer anticipated that the image data will be displayed. In one example implementation the prefetch requests may be put in a last in first out LIFO manner. In doing so the cancel mechanism may help ensure that data is not needed is not continually polled. Such a mechanism may enable a more responsive interface for example when a user stops the browsing.

In one embodiment previously prefetched image data may be locally stored. For example previously prefetched image data may be stored in a cache of the node e.g. CPU cache display cache etc. . Such data may persist in local storage until a maximum capacity or an allowed usage amount e.g. 80 of available cache space has been reached or until the local storage is cleared manual or automatic . A user can manually configure the allowable size of the cache via the interface.

One or more of blocks and may be performed dynamically to account for updates to the plurality of images. For example the assigning of block may be repeated upon receiving an update to the plurality of images. An example scenario in which this may occur may be adding a new node that includes a number of additional images to the mesh. Those images may then be assigned to existing groups or newly added groups e.g. if tags of the newly received images warrant creating a new group . Or all of the images may be regrouped when an update occurs. Another example scenario may be when one of the nodes generates a new rendition e.g. according the non destructive editing techniques herein of an image. Accordingly the updated version of the image and the original version may coexist such that the plurality of images includes both versions. The updated version may be assigned to the same group as the original version or if the grouping is by date modified or some other grouping the newly created updated version may be assigned to a different group.

An image of the plurality of displayed images in the interface may be selected to zoom to full screen mode resulting in a single image being displayed. This may be used to simply zoom in on an image or may be used to enter an editing mode such as the disclosed non destructive editing.

The disclosed browsing techniques may allow for efficient handling and browsing of large amounts of data even on nodes devices with modest hardware such as mobile devices e.g. tablets phones laptops . By performing asynchronous prefetching fetching and fetch canceling perceived performance of the interface may be very smooth.

While examples of the methods of may include implementations using the described content aware mesh the methods of may also be implemented in a typical client server arrangement or other arrangements e.g. non cloud based . In a client server arrangement node may be a server configured to centrally store all of the plurality of images instead of having the images distributed among the various nodes. Even in such an arrangement the non destructive editing of may still take place in a collaborative manner. Moreover the browsing techniques of may be used in a client server embodiment or in an embodiment with a single node. For example the disclosed browsing techniques including the prefetch mechanism may be implemented by a single node to browse the images on that node.

It will be appreciated that the methods of are example embodiments of methods employed according to the techniques described herein. The methods of may be modified to facilitate variations of its implementations and uses. For example although some embodiments have been described with respect to images the techniques may be applied for use with similar content. The methods of may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof.

Program instructions and or data for implementing embodiments of data collection code and or matching code as described herein may for example be stored on a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc.

Various portions of a content aware mesh non destructive editing techniques and or the disclosed browsing techniques may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is illustrated by . For example nodes and or application store IMS node proxy node and or external services may each include employ or be executed on one or more computer systems.

In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard audio device and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple components making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more components of computer system that are distinct from those components implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

In some embodiments at least one processor may be a graphics processing unit. A graphics processing unit GPU may be considered a dedicated graphics rendering device for a personal computer workstation game console or other computer system. GPUs may be very efficient at manipulating and displaying computer graphics and their highly parallel structure may make them more effective than typical CPUs for a range of complex graphical algorithms. For example a graphics processor may implement a number of graphics primitive operations in a way that makes executing them much faster than drawing directly to the screen with a host central processing unit CPU . In various embodiments the methods disclosed herein for layout preserved text generation may be implemented by program instructions configured for execution on one of or parallel execution on two or more of such GPUs. The GPU s may implement one or more application programmer interfaces APIs that permit programmers to invoke the functionality of the GPU s . Suitable GPUs may be commercially available from vendors such as NVIDIA Corporation ATI Technologies and others.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above for a layout preserved text generation method are shown stored within system memory as program instructions and data storage respectively. In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components. In addition in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network e.g. network such as other computer systems or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or retrieving data by one or more computer system . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

Memory may include program instructions configured to implement embodiments as described herein and data storage comprising various data accessible by program instructions . In one embodiment program instructions may include software elements of one or more methods illustrated in the above Figures. Data storage may include data that may be used in embodiments. In other embodiments other or different software elements and or data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of analytics data collection or analytics data matching methods as described herein. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly the disclosed embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations. In some embodiments portions of the techniques described herein may be hosted in a cloud computing infrastructure.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The various methods as illustrated in the Figures and described herein represent example embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended that the embodiments embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

