---

title: Pyrazolopyridyl compounds as aldosterone synthase inhibitors
abstract: 

or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, wherein the variable are defined herein. The inventive compounds selectively inhibit aldosterone synthase. This invention also provides for pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of Formula I or their salts as well as potentially to methods for the treatment, amelioration or prevention of conditions that could be treated by inhibiting aldosterone synthase.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351973&OS=09351973&RS=09351973
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09351973
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120917
---
This application claims benefit to provisional application U.S. Ser. No. 61 537 928 filed on 22 Sep. 2011 herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to pyrazolopyridyl compounds which selectively inhibit aldosterone synthase CYP11B2 with diminished inhibition or affect on steroid 11 hydroxylase CYP11B1 inhibitors. The inventive compounds potentially have utility in treating cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or heart failure. The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising the inventive compounds as well as processes for their preparation.

Aldosterone is a steroid hormone secreted in the adrenal cortex. In primary cells of the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney aldosterone binding to the mineralocorticoid receptor MR results in the retention of sodium and water and excretion of potassium which in turn leads to increased blood pressure. Aldosterone also causes inflammation that leads to fibrosis and remodeling in the heart vasculature and kidney. This inflammation may proceed by MR dependent as well as MR independent mechanisms Gilbert K. C. et al. Curr. Opin. Endocrinol. Diabetes Obes. vol. 17 2010 pp. 199 204 .

Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists MRAs such as spironolactone and eplerenone have been used previously to block the effects of aldosterone binding to MR. When given in addition to standard therapies such as angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors and loop diuretics the nonselective MRA spironolactone and the selective MRA eplerenone significantly reduced morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure or myocardial infarction Pitt B. et al. New Engl. J. Med. vol. 341 1999 pp. 709 717 Pitt B. et al. New Engl. J. Med. vol. 348 2003 pp. 1382 1390 . However the nonselective MRA spironolactone can also bind to and act at other steroid receptors and as a consequence its use is associated with sexual side effects such as gynecomastia dysmenorrhoea and impotence Pitt B. et al. New Engl. J. Med. vol. 341 1999 pp. 709 717 MacFadyen R. J. et al. Cardiovasc. Res. vol. 35 1997 pp 30 34 Soberman J. E. et al. Curr. Hypertens. Rep. vol. 2 2000 pp 451 456 . Additionally both spironolactone and eplerenone are known to cause elevated plasma potassium levels hyperkalemia and elevated aldosterone levels.

An alternative method of blocking the effects of aldosterone is to inhibit its biosynthesis. CYP11B2 is a mitochondrial cytochrome P450 enzyme that catalyzes the final oxidative steps in the conversion of 11 deoxycorticosterone a steroidal precursor to aldosterone Kawamoto T. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA vol. 89 1992 pp. 1458 1462 . Compounds that inhibit CYP11B2 should thus inhibit the formation of aldosterone. Such compounds particularly those of nonsteroidal structure should provide the beneficial effects of MRAs without the adverse effects derived from steroid receptor binding or MR independent inflammatory pathways. The art has recognized that reducing aldosterone levels by inhibiting aldosterone synthase could represent a new pharmaceutical strategy that might be useful in treating a disorder or disease characterized by increased stress hormone levels and or decreased androgen hormone levels in a patient WO2011 088188 to Novartis . Compounds possessing this activity might be expected to treat disease states such as heart failure cachexia acute coronary syndrome Cushing s syndrome or metabolic syndrome.

CYP11B1 is a related enzyme that catalyzes the formation of glucocorticoids such as cortisol an important regulator of glucose metabolism. Because human CYP11B2 and CYP11B1 are greater than 93 homologous it is possible for nonselective compounds to inhibit both enzymes Kawamoto T. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA vol. 89 1992 pp 1458 1462 Taymans S. E. et al. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. vol. 83 1998 pp 1033 1036 . It would be preferable however for therapeutic agents to selectively inhibit CYP11B2 and the formation of aldosterone with diminished inhibition of or affect on CYP11B1 and the production of cortisol.

WO 2009 135651 to Elexopharm describes 6 pyridin 3yl 3 4 dihydro 1H quinolin 2 one derivatives as being CYP11B2 inhibitors. Two compounds described therein are lactam derivatives of the formula 

Benzimidazole derivatives are also known in the art to treat various disease states. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 897 208 to Aventis Pharmaceuticals describes compounds of the formula 

US 2009 0221591 A1 to Universitat des Saarlandes also discloses compounds that inhibit CYP11B1 and CYP11B2. WO 2009 135651 to Universitat des Saarlandes teaches that compounds of the formula 

WO 1999 400094 Bayer AG discloses oxazolidinones with azol containing tricycles as having antibacterial activity.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 381 825 to Takeda describes histone deacetylase inhibitors of the formula Z Q L M where Q is a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic ring L is a substituent providing between 0 10 atoms separation between M and the remainder of the compound M is a substituent capable of complexing with a deacetylase catalytic site and or metal ion and Z is list of bicyclic groups including but not limited to 

In its many embodiments the present invention provides for novel pyrazolopyridyl compounds which are inhibitors of CYP11B2 or metabolites stereoisomers salts solvates or polymorphs thereof processes of preparing such compounds pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more such compounds processes of preparing pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more such compounds and potentially methods of treatment inhibition or amelioration of one or more disease states associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 by administering an effective amount at least one of the inventive pyrazolopyridyl compounds to a patient in need thereof.

In one aspect the present application discloses a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt metabolite solvate prodrug or polymorph of said compound said compound having the general structure shown in Formula I

Ris halogen CN OR N R C O R NRR C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R or S O R or C O OR 

Ris H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR SON R R N R S O R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R S O R or S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R or S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR SON R R N R S O R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R S O R or S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris independently H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OH OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R 

Another aspect of the present invention is pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the present invention is pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the present invention is the prevention of one or more disease states associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 by administering an effective amount of at least one of the inventive pyrazolopyridyl compounds to a patient in need thereof.

It is further contemplated that the combination of the invention could be provided as a kit comprising in a single package at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a pharmaceutical composition and at least one separate pharmaceutical composition such as for example a separate pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutic agent.

The compounds of the present invention could be useful in the treatment amelioration or prevention of one or more conditions associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 by administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of such treatment. Conditions that could be treated or prevented by inhibiting CYP 11B2 include hypertension heart failure such as congestive heart failure diastolic dysfunction left ventricular diastolic dysfunction heart failure including congestive heart failure diastolic dysfunction left ventricular diastolic dysfunction diastolic heart failure systolic dysfunction hypokalemia renal failure including chronic renal failure restenosis syndrome X nephropathy post myocardial infarction coronary heart diseases increased formation of collagen fibrosis and remodeling following hypertension and endothelial dysfunction cardiovascular diseases renal dysfunction liver diseases vascular diseases cerebrovascular diseases retinopathy neuropathy insulinopathy endothelial dysfunction ischemia myocardial and vascular fibrosis myocardial necrotic lesions vascular damage myocardial necrotic lesions vascular damage myocardial infarction left ventricular hypertrophy cardiac lesions vascular wall hypertrophy endothelial thickening or fibrinoid necrosis of coronary arteries.

The compounds of the present invention also might be useful in treating one or more conditions characterized by increased stress hormone levels and or decreased androgen hormone levels in a mammal by administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal in need of such treatment. Conditions characterized by increased stress hormone levels and or decreased androgen hormone levels in a mammal include for example heart failure e.g. acute heart failure acute decompensated heart failure chronic heart failure chronic heart failure with impaired exercise tolerance or chromic heart failure with muscle weakness cachexia e.g. cardiac cachexia COPD induced cachexia cirrhosis induced cachexia tumor induced cachexia or viral HIV induced cachexia acute coronary syndrome Cushing s syndrome or metabolic syndrome.

Another aspect of the present invention could be the possible use of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment amelioration or prevention of one or more conditions associated with inhibiting CYP11B2 in a patient.

This invention further relates to process for the preparation of the compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Moreover this invention also relates to the use of the compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts to validate in vitro assays such as for example the V79 Human CYP11B2 and V79 Human CYP11B1 discussed later in the application.

In an embodiment the present invention provides compounds represented by structural Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the various moieties are as described as above.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I wherein 

Ris halogen CN OR N R C O R NRR C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen or cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen cycloalkyl optionally substituted once or twice by alkyl or halogen or C O OR 

Ris H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR SON R R N R S O R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R S O R or S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R or S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O R C O OR SON R R N R S O R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R S O R or S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris independently H halogen CN OR NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO R S O R alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O OR SON R R N R SO Ror S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OH OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R 

Ris independently H alkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R cycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR NRR CN N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R aryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R or heteroaryl optionally substituted one or more times e.g. 1 to 4 times by halogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl OR CN NRR N R C O R C O N R R C O ORor S O R 

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula II

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula III

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula IV

wherein R R Rand a are as defined in Formula I and b is 0 1 or 2 e.g where b is 0 or where b is 1 or 2 and Ris alkyl or halo .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I represented by structural Formula V

wherein R R R Rand a are as defined in Formula I and b is 0 1 or 2 e.g where b is 0 or where b is 1 or 2 and Ris alkyl or halo .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through V a is 0 or a is 1 or 2 and Ris independently halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF haloalkyl e.g. CF cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl or cyclohexyl or phenyl optionally substituted by halogen.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any the embodiments of Formulae I through V described above where Ris H halogen CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl or cyclohexyl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of

formulae I through V described above where Ris phenyl which is optionally substitute once or twice by alkyl halogen or haloalkyl.

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through III above where Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl or cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through III above where Ris H or alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through III above where Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl haloalkyl e.g. CF haloalkyl e.g. CF or phenyl optionally substituted by halogen OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through III wherein Ris cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through III described above where Ris H and Ris H halogen e.g. F or Cl CN alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl haloalkyl e.g. CF haloalkyl e.g. CF or phenyl optionally substituted by halogen OR where Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl i propyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl or haloalkyl e.g. CF or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

Another embodiment of the present invention is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formulae I through III described above where Ris C O OR e.g. Ris C C alkyl or phenyl optionally substituted by halogen or haloalkyl .

Another embodiment of the present inventions is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through III described above or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof where Ris H and Ris a group of the formula 

Another embodiment of the present inventions is compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of any of the embodiments of Formula I through III described above or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof where Ris alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl or phenyl Ris H alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl or cycloalkyl e.g. cyclopropyl Ris H halogen OR where Ris H or alkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl CN or haloalkyl e.g. CF .

As used above and throughout this disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings 

The following definitions apply regardless of whether a term is used by itself or in combination with other terms unless otherwise indicated. Therefore the definition of alkyl applies to alkyl as well as the alkyl portions of hydroxyalkyl haloalkyl alkoxy etc.

 Alkyl means an aliphatic hydrocarbon group which may be straight or branched and comprising about 1 to about 20 carbon atoms in the chain. Preferred alkyl groups contain about 1 to about 12 carbon atoms in the chain. More preferred alkyl groups contain about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain. Branched means that one or more lower alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl or propyl are attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl means a group having about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain which may be straight or branched.

 Haloalkyl means a halo alkyl group in which the alkyl group is as previously described. The bond to the parent moiety is through the alkyl. Non limiting examples of suitable haloalkyl groups include fluoromethyl difluoromethyl CHCF CHCHF CHCHF or an alkyl group with one or more terminal carbons tri substituted with a halogen e.g. F such as for example C Calkyl CF CH CH CF CH CF and the like.

 Cycloalkyl means a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms. Preferred cycloalkyl rings contain about 5 to about 7 ring atoms. The cycloalkyl can be optionally substituted with one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined above. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Non limiting examples of suitable multicyclic cycloalkyls include 1 decalinyl norbornyl adamantyl and the like as well as partially saturated species such as for example indanyl tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

 Aryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 6 to about 14 carbon atoms preferably about 6 to about 10 carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of suitable aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl indenyl tetrahydronaphthyl and indanyl.

 Heterocycloalkyl means a non aromatic saturated monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the atoms in the ring system is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur alone or in combination. There are no adjacent oxygen and or sulfur atoms present in the ring system. Preferred heterocyclyls contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heterocycloalkyl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. Any NH in a heterocycloalkyl ring may exist protected such as for example as an N Boc N CBz N Tos group and the like such protections are also considered part of this invention. The nitrogen or sulfur atom of the heterocycloalkyl ring can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide S oxide or S S dioxide. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic heterocycloalkyl rings include piperidyl pyrrolidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thiazolidinyl 1 3 dioxanyl 1 4 dioxanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrothiophenyl lactam lactone and the like.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 5 to about 14 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the ring atoms is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur alone or in combination provided that the rings do not include adjacent oxygen and or sulfur atoms. N oxides of the ring nitrogens are also included as well as compounds wherein a ring nitrogen is substituted by an alkyl group to form a quaternary amine. Preferred heteroaryls contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heteroaryl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. A nitrogen atom of a heteroaryl can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide. Non limiting examples of suitable heteroaryls include pyridyl pyrazinyl furanyl thienyl pyrimidinyl pyridone including N substituted pyridones isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl tetrazolyl pyrimidyl furazanyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl quinoxalinyl phthalazinyl oxindolyl naphthyridyl e.g. 1 5 or 1 7 pyrido 2 3 imidazolyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl imidazo 2 1 b thiazolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl indolyl azaindolyl benzimidazolyl benzothienyl quinolinyl imidazolyl thienopyridyl quinazolinyl thienopyrimidyl pyrrolopyridyl imidazopyridyl isoquinolinyl benzoazaindolyl 1 2 4 triazinyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl pyridopyrimidinyl 7 azaindolyl and the like. The term heteroaryl also refers to partially saturated heteroaryl moieties such as for example tetrahydroisoquinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl and the like. All positional isomers are contemplated e.g. 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl and 4 pyridyl.

It should be noted that in heterocycloalkyl ring systems of this invention there are no hydroxyl groups on carbon atoms adjacent to a N O or S as well as there are no N or S groups on carbon adjacent to another heteroatom. Thus for example in the ring 

When Rand Rare joined together to form a 5 7 membered carbocyclic ring that is fused to the pyridyl ring to which Rand Rare attached carbocyclic means a cycloalkyl aryl or partially unsaturated ring composed of 5 7 carbon atoms wherein two of the carbons are shared between the fused rings. When Rand Rare joined together to form a 5 7 membered heterocyclic ring that is fused to the pyridyl ring to which Rand Rare attached heterocyclic means a fully saturated partially saturated or aromatic ring composed of carbon atoms and one two or three heteroatoms selected from N S or O wherein two of the carbons are shared between the fused rings. Representative ring include 

When a moiety can be optionally substituted it means that each carbon and heteroatom when present available for substitution in the given moiety may be independently unsubstituted or substituted with specified number of substituents that are the same or different at each occurrence and which result in the creation of a stable structure as is understood to be reasonable by one skilled in the art.

Unless expressly depicted or described otherwise variables depicted in a structural formula with a floating bond such as Rin structural Formula III are permitted on any available carbon atom in the ring to which each is attached.

When Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a saturated 5 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring this means a saturated heterocyclic ring composed of in addition to the one nitrogen atom carbon atoms and optionally one additional heteroatom selected from N S or O. Representative examples include 

The present invention encompasses all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have R configuration or S configuration. When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the structural Formulas of the invention it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the Formula. Similarly when a compound name is recited without a chiral designation for a chiral carbon it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence individual enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced by the name. The production of specific stereoisomers or mixtures thereof may be identified in the Examples where such stereoisomers or mixtures were obtained but this in no way limits the inclusion of all stereoisomers and mixtures thereof from being within the scope of this invention.

The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at an intermediate step during the synthesis of a compound of Formula I or it can be done on a final racemic product. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Where compounds of this invention are capable of tautomerization all individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are included in the scope of this invention. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts solvates including hydrates and solvated salts of such racemates enantiomers diastereomers and tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment e.g. Formula I which includes the compounds of Formulae II V or any other generic structural formula or specific compound described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the formula or embodiment including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates of such compounds and solvated salt forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

When the compounds of Formula I contain one or more acidic or basic groups the invention also includes the corresponding physiologically or toxicologically acceptable salts in particular the pharmaceutically utilizable salts. Thus the compounds of Formula I which contain acidic groups can be used according to the invention for example as alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts or as ammonium salts. Examples of such salts include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts calcium salts magnesium salts or salts with ammonia or organic amines such as for example ethylamine ethanolamine triethanolamine or amino acids. Compounds of Formula I which contain one or more basic groups i.e. groups which can be protonated can be used according to the invention in the form of their acid addition salts with inorganic or organic acids as for example but not limited to salts with hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide phosphoric acid sulfuric acid nitric acid benzenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acids oxalic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid tartaric acid lactic acid salicylic acid benzoic acid formic acid propionic acid pivalic acid diethylacetic acid malonic acid succinic acid pimelic acid fumaric acid maleic acid malic acid sulfaminic acid phenylpropionic acid gluconic acid ascorbic acid isonicotinic acid citric acid adipic acid etc. If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of physiologically i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COO depending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modifications include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts thereof pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

Compounds of the present invention are effective at inhibiting the synthesis of aldosterone by inhibiting CYP11B2 aldosterone synthase and they are therefore useful agents for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders that are associated with elevated aldosterone levels. Accordingly an embodiment of the instant invention is to provide a method for inhibiting aldosterone synthase and more particularly selectively inhibiting CYP11B2 in a patient in need thereof comprising administering a compound of Formula I to the patient in an amount effective to inhibit aldosterone synthesis or more particularly to selectively inhibit CYP11B2 in the patient. A selective inhibitor of CYP11B2 is intended to mean a compound that preferentially inhibits CYP11B2 as compared to CYP11B1. The inhibition of CYP11B2 as well inhibition of CYP11B1 by the compounds of Formula I can be examined for example in the inhibition assays described below.

In general compounds that have activity as aldosterone synthase inhibitors can be identified as those compounds which have an ICof less than or equal to about 10 M preferably less than or equal to about 250 nM and most preferably less than or equal to about 100 nM in the V79 Human CYP11B2 Assay described below. In general aldosterone synthase inhibitors that are selective for inhibition of CYP11B2 as compared to CYP11B1 are those that show at least 3 fold greater inhibition for CYP11B2 compared to CYP11B1 preferably at least 20 fold inhibition for CYP11B2 compared to CYP11B1 and more preferably at least 100 fold greater inhibition for CYP11B2 compared to CYP11B1 in the V79 Human CYP11B2 Assay as compared to the V79 Human CYP11B1 Assay.

Due to their ability to inhibit CYP11B2 the compounds of the present invention may be useful to treat and or ameliorate the risk for hypertension hypokalemia renal failure e.g. chromic renal failure restenosis Syndrome X nephropathy post myocardial infarction coronary heart diseases increased formation of collagen fibrosis and remodeling following hypertension and endothelial dysfunction cardiovascular diseases renal dysfunction liver diseases vascular diseases cerebrovascular diseases retinopathy neuropathy insulinopathy endothelial dysfunction heart failure e.g. congestive heart failure diastolic heart failure left ventricle diastolic dysfunction diastolic heart failure systolic dysfunction ischemia myocardial and vascular fibrosis myocardial necrotic lesions vascular damage myocardial infarction left ventricular hypertrophy cardiac lesions vascular wall hypertrophy endothelial thickening or necrosis of coronary arteries.

The dosage amount of the compound to be administered depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of Formula I. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the compound will be administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting days months years or the life of the patient.

In general a daily dose of approximately 0.001 to 30 mg kg preferably 0.001 to 20 mg kg in particular 0.01 to 10 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose is preferably administered in a single dose or in particular when larger amounts are administered can be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses and may be for example but not limited to 0.1 mg 0.25 mg 0.5 mg 0.75 mg 1 mg 1.25 mg 1.5 mg 2 mg 2.5 mg 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg etc. on a daily basis. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose.

The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of said disease or medical condition.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The tems preventing or prevention are used herein to refer to administering a compound before the onset of clinical symptoms.

It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

In the methods of treatment of this invention the compound may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as for example orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred particularly solid oral dosage units such as pills tablets or capsules.

Accordingly this invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprised of a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as pills tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose mannitol calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other customary additives for example wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners diluents buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques for aesthetic purposes to mask taste or for other reasons. Coatings can also be used to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid. Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier is comprised of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Furthermore a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for inhibiting aldosterone synthase inhibiting CYP11B2 for normalizing a disturbed aldosterone balance or for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein.

The amount of active compound of Formula I and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical composition may be for example but not limited to from 0.1 to 200 mg preferably from 0.1 to 50 mg per dose on a free acid free base weight basis but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical composition and potency of the active ingredient it could also be lower or higher. Pharmaceutical compositions usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the active compound on a free acid free base weight basis.

Since the compounds of Formula I inhibit aldosterone synthase apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on aldosterone synthase and aldosterone levels is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of Formula I can also be employed as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents or therapeutic agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. An additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents different from the compound of Formula I. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents .

Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moexepril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril dual inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme ACE and neutral endopeptidase NEP such as omapatrilat sampatrilat and fasidotril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. candesartan eprosartan irbesartan losartan olmesartan telmisartan valsartan neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists renin inhibitors e.g. enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine bepridil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil nicardipine nifedipine niludipine nimodipine nisoldipine veraparmil potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide including loop diuretics such as ethacrynic acid furosemide bumetanide and torsemide sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly in niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds e.g. muraglitazar glipizide metformin rosiglitazone dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin and gemigliptin or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including nitroprusside and diazoxide.

In general the compounds in the invention may be produced by a variety of processes know to those skilled in the art and by know processes analogous thereto. The invention disclosed herein is exemplified by the following preparations and examples which should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Alternative mechanistic pathways and analogous structures will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The practitioner is not limited to these methods and one skilled in the art would have resources such as or at his or her disposal to assist in devising an alternative method of preparing a specific compound.

The compounds of the present invention can be prepared according to the procedures of the following Schemes using appropriate materials and are further exemplified by the specific Examples which follow. Moreover by utilizing the procedures described herein one of ordinary skill in the art can readily prepare additional compounds of the present invention claimed herein.

Throughout the synthetic schemes abbreviations are used with the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

AcCN acetonitrile aq aqueous Ar aryl BSA bovine serum albumin Bu butyl t Bu tert butyl n BuLi n butyllithium CELITE diatomaceous earth conc conc. concentrated c Pr cyclopropyl Cy cyclohexyl DECALIN decahydronaphthalene dba dibenzylideneacetone DCM dichloromethane dffp 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene DIPA dissopropyl amine DMEM Dulbecco s modified eagle medium DMF N N dimethylformamide DMSO dimethylsulfoxide eq. equivalent s EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid Et ethyl EtOAc ethyl acetate EtOH ethanol FBS Fetal Bovine Serum h hr hour HAS hydroxylamine o sulphonic acid HPLC High pressure liquid chromatography HTRF homogenous time resolved fluorescence i PrOH isopropanol i Pr isopropyl LCMS liquid chromatography mass spectroscopy Me methyl MeOH methanol min min. minute MS mass spectroscopy NCS N chlorosuccinimide NMR nuclear magnetic resonance PBS phosphate buffered saline PdCl dppf dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II Pd dba tris dibenzylidineacetone dipalladium Pd dppf Cl 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II Pd C palladium on activated carbon Ph phenyl Pr propyl Py pyridyl PyBOP benzotriazol 1 yloxy tripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate OAc acetate RT rt room temperature sat. saturated S Phos 2 dichlorocyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxybiphenyl TBAF tetrabutylammonium fluoride THF tetrahydrofuran triflate and TfO trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride.

As will be known to those skilled in the art in all schemes the products of Formula I and all synthetic intermediates may be purified from unwanted side products reagents and solvents by recrystallization trituration preparative thin layer chromatography flash chromatography on silica gel as described by W. C. Still et al J. Org. Chem. 1978 43 2923 or reverse phase HPLC. Compounds purified by HPLC may be isolated as the corresponding salt.

Additionally in some instances the final compounds of Formula I and synthetic intermediates may be comprised of a mixture of cis and trans isomers enantiomers or diastereomers. As will be known to those skilled in the art such cis and trans isomers enantiomers and diastereomers may be separated by various methods including crystallization chomatography using a homochiral stationary phase and in the case of cis trans isomers and diastereomers normal phase and reverse phase chromatography.

Chemical reactions were monitored by LCMS and the purity and identity of the reaction products were assayed by LCMS electrospray ionization and NMR. LCMS spectra were recorded in some instances for example on an Agilent 1100 series instrument equipped with an Xterra MS C18 column 3.5 M 3.0 50 mm i.d. and UV detector. 1H NMR spectra were recorded for example on a Varian 500 HHz spectrometer and are internally referenced to residual protio solvent signals. Data for H NMR are reported with chemical shift ppm multiplicity s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet m multiplet br s broad singlet br m broad multiplet coupling constant Hz and integration. Unless otherwise noted all LCMS ions listed are M H . All temperatures are degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted.

In the Examples some intermediates and final compounds having a chiral carbon were prepared as racemates and some chiral intermediates were resolved and the enantiomers were used separately to synthesize enantiomeric downstream intermediates and final products. In some cases racemic final products may have been resolved. In the instances where chiral compounds were separated by chiral HPLC purification the term enantiomer A or ent A refers to the first eluting enantiomer and the downstream compounds derived from this enantiomer. The term enantiomer B or ent B refers to the second eluting enantiomer and the downstream compounds derived from this enantiomer. The term rac refers to a racemic mixture. As a result the chemical nomenclature may indicate that an S and or an R enantiomer was obtained but the absolute stereochemistry of the separate enantiomers A and or B was not determined.

Preparative HPLC was performed for example using a SunFire Prep C18 OBD column 5 M 19 100 mm i.d. on Gilson instruments equipped with UV detectors.

Flash chromatography on silica gel was performed for example using pre packed silica gel columns on Biotage Horizon or Biotage SP 1 instruments equipped with UV detectors.

The following examples are provided so that the invention might be more fully understood. They should neither be construed as forming the only genus that is considered as the invention nor limiting the invention in any way.

2 Heteroaryl pyrazolopyridines can be synthesized according to Scheme 1. 2 Chloro pyrazolopyridine 1 can be treated with NIS to yield 2 chloro 3 iodo pyrazolopyridine 2 which can be converted to 3 substituted 2 chloro pyrazolopyridine 3 under Suzuki conditions. Further Suzuki reaction of 3 with an appropriate heteroaryl boronate affords the desired 2 heteroaryl pyrazolopyridine 4.

5 Oxo 2 heteroaryl tetrahydropyrazolo pyrimidines can be synthesized according to Scheme 2. Reaction of pyridyl ester 5 with an appropriate nitrile yields 2 substituted 3 oxo 3 heteroaryl propanenitrile 6 which upon treatment with hydrazine hydrate may be converted to heteroaryl aminopyrazole 7. Reaction of 7 with ethyl acrylate affords 5 oxo 2 heteroaryl tetrahydropyrazolo pyrimidine 8 which can be alkylated with methyl iodide to afford 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 heteroaryl tetrahydropyrazolo pyrimidine 9.

5 Oxo 2 heteroaryl tetrahydropyrazolo pyrimidine 3 carbonitriles can be prepared according to Scheme 3. Suzuki coupling between 5 amino 3 bromo 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 10 and a pyridyl boronic acid affords 3 cyano heteroaryl aminopyrazole 11. Treatment of 11 with ethyl acrylate yields alkylated 3 cyano heteroaryl aminopyrazole 12. Ring closure of 12 upon reaction with n butyl lithium yields 5 oxo 2 heteroaryl tetrahydropyrazolo pyrimidine 3 carbonitriles 13 which can be further alkylated with methyl iodide to afford 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 heteroaryl tetrahydropyrazolo pyrimidine 14.

The heteroaryl boronic acids or esters employed in these reactions may be obtained commercially prepared by reactions known in literature or prepared by modifying reactions known in the art. Scheme 4 depicts one method for example by which one of ordinary skill in the art may be able to prepare a boronic ester 

Treating 3 5 dibromopyridine 15 with n butyllithium and acetone in a solvent such as toluene at low temperature provides 16. Heating bromide 16 and 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane in the presence of a catalyst such as dichloro 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II and a base such as potassium acetate in a solvent such as 1 4 dioxane then affords boronate ester 17.

1 5 Bromopyridin 3 yl ethanone 18 is treated with trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane and tetrabutylammonium fluoride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran to provide 19. Heating of bromide 19 and 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane in the presence of a catalyst such as tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 a ligand such as tricyclohexylphosphine and a base such as potassium acetate in a solvent such as 1 4 dioxane then affords boronic acid 20.

As will be known to those skilled in the art in all schemes the products of Formula I and all synthetic intermediates may be purified from unwanted side products reagents and solvents by recrystallisation trituration preparative TLC flash chromatography on silica gel or reverse phase HPLC. Compounds purified by HPLC may be isolated as the corresponding salt.

The following is illustrative of the process used for making some of the intermediates employed in the examples below 

n butyl lithium 92.3 mL 0.147 mol 1.6 M was added to a solution of diisopropyl amine 20.1 mL 0.147 mol in tetrahydrofuran 120 mL at 78 C. and allowed to stir for 30 min at 0 C. The reaction mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 3 bromo 5 fluoro pyridine 20.0 g 0.113 mol in tetrahydrofuran 20 mL was added and stirred for 30 min. Ethyl iodide 8.85 mL 0.124 mol was added to reaction mixture and allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride 100 mL solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated sodium chloride dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated to provide 3 bromo 5 fluoro 4 ethyl pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.49 s 1 H 8.31 s 1 H 2.87 2.82 m 2 H 1.22 1.19 t J 4.0 Hz 3 H . MS M 1 205.8.

A reaction vessel containing a mixture of 3 bromo 4 ethyl 5 fluoropyridine 0.25 g 0.0012 mol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 0.96 g 0.0036 mol and potassium acetate 0.36 g 0.0036 mol in 1 4 dioxane 15 mL was purged with argon for 10 min. Next 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.09 g 0.00012 mol was added and heated at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered through a bed of CELITE and the bed was washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 4 ethyl 3 fluoro 5 4 4 5 5tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine. MS M 1 252.1.

A reaction vessel containing a mixture of 5 bromonicotinonitrile 0.5 g 2.73 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 0.93 g 3.54 mmol and potassium acetate 0.80 g 8.19 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 30 mL was purged with argon for 10 min. Next 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 0.045 g 0.0819 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.066 g 0.0819 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was heated at 85 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered through a bed of CELITE and the bed was washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl nicotinonitrile. MS M 1 231.1.

A reaction vessel containing a mixture of 5 bromonicotinonitrile 0.5 g 2.212 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 0.75 g 2.87 mmol and potassium acetate 0.65 g 6.636 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 30 mL was purged with argon for 10 min. Next 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 0.036 g 0.066 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.04 g 0.049 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was heated at 85 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered through a bed of CELITE and the bed was washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 5 trifluoromethyl pyridine. MS M 1 274.1.

Methyl magnesium bromide 5.3 mL 0.075 mol was added to a stirred solution of 1 5 bromopyridin 3 yl ethanone 1.0 g 0.05 mol in tetrahydrofuran 20.0 mL cooled to 0 C. and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with 1N hydrochloric acid 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 75 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum to afford the crude compound which was purified by column chromatography to obtain 2 5 bromopyridin 3 yl propan 2 ol. MS M 1 217.1.

A reaction vessel containing a mixture of 2 5 bromopyridin 3 yl propan 2 ol 0.5 g 2.31 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 2.4 g 9.2 mmol and potassium acetate 0.612 g 6.9 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 20 mL was purged with argon for 10 min. Next 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.190 g 0.23 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 15 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then filtered through a bed of CELITE and the bed was washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 2 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl propan 2 ol. MS M 1 265.1.

Phenyl chloroformate 0.764 mL 0.0060 mol was added to a mixture of copper iodide 1.082 g 0.0056 mol dimethylsulphide 2.78 mL 0.0380 mol and 3 bromo 5 fluoropyridine 1.0 g 0.0056 mol in anhydrous tetrahydofuran 25 mL at room temperature and the mixture was stirred for 40 50 min. To this suspension cyclopropyl magnesium bromide 12.13 mL 0.0060 mol 0.5M solution in tetrahydofuran was added at 25 to 20 C. over 30 40 min. The mixture was stirred at this temperature for 30 min and then warmed slowly to room temperature over 1.0 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with 20 ammonium chloride 25 mL followed by extraction of the aqueous layer with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with 20 ammonium chloride 25 mL then saturated sodium chloride 25 mL and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. Silica gel chromatography using 0 5 ethyl acetate hexane gradient yielded crude phenyl 3 bromo 4 cyclopropyl 5 fluoropyridine 1 4H carboxylate MS M 1 339.7.

A mixture of the crude phenyl 3 bromo 4 cyclopropyl 5 fluoropyridine 1 4H carboxylate 1.14 g 0.0034 mol and sulphur 0.108 g 0.0034 mol were heated at reflux in DECALIN 10 mL for a period of 3 h then cooled to room temperature. Purification by silica gel chromatography eluting first with hexanes then with a 2 5 ethyl acetate hexane gradient gave the title compound. MS M 1 217.1.

A reaction vessel containing a mixture of 3 bromo 4 cyclopropyl 5 fluoropyridine 0.3 g 0.0013 mol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 1.4 g 0.005 mol and potassium acetate 0.367 g 0.0039 mol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL was purged with argon for 10 min. Next 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.113 g 0.00013 mol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 15 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered through a bend of CELITE and the bed was washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 4 cyclopropyl 3 fluoro 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine MS M 1 264.1.

Cesium carbonate 2.59 g 0.00797 mol was added to a stirred solution of 3 5 dibromo 4 methylpyridine 1.0 g 0.0039 mol and cyclopropylboronic acid 0.34 g 0.0039 mol in the mixture of 1 4 dioxan 35 mL and water 15 mL . The reaction mixture was purged with argon for 20 min. Next Pd dppf Cl 0.14 g 0.000199 mol was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. and for 6 h. It was cooled to room temperature filtered through a bed of CELITE and the bed was thoroughly washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was dissolved with dichloromethane washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate concentrated under vacuum and purified by silica gel 60 120 column chromatography with 0 2.5 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CdCl 8.51 s 1 H 8.17 s 1 H 2.52 s 3 H 1.87 1.82 m 1 H 1.03 0.99 m 2 H 0.71 0.68 m 2 H . MS M 1 211.8.

4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 2.99 g 0.0117 mol and potassium acetate 0.46 g 0.00471 mol was added to a stirred solution of 3 bromo 5 cyclopropyl 4 methylpyridine 0.5 g 0.00235 mol in dioxin 10 mL . The reaction mixture was purged with argon for 20 min. After purging Pd dppf Cl.DCM 0.09 g 0.000117 mol was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered the reaction mixture through a bed of CELITE and the bed was thoroughly washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the organic layer was washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum to obtain 3 cyclopropyl 4 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine which was not further purified. MS M 1 178.1 as boronic acid in LCMS .

To a solution of 2 chloro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 0.500 g 3.28 mmol in acetonitrile 16.4 mL was added N iodosuccinimide 0.885 g 3.93 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was diluted with dichloromethane washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound. LCMS m z 278.72 M H 280.64 M 2 H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.35 d J 6.8 Hz 1 H 7.38 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 7.24 d J 8.6 Hz 1 H 6.84 6.81 m 1 H .

A mixture of the title compound from Example 1 Step A 0.250 g 0.898 mmol palladium acetate 0.020 g 0.090 mmol cyclopropyl boronic acid 0.154 g 1.80 mmol cesium carbonate 0.878 g 2.69 mol and triphenylphosphine 0.047 g 0.180 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 8.98 mL was heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 192.93 M H 194.89 M 2 H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.29 d J 7.0 Hz 1 H 7.49 d J 12.8 Hz 1 H 7.21 dd J 7.5 7.5 Hz 1 H 6.70 dd J 6.3 6.3 Hz 1 H 1.79 1.74 m 1 H 0.98 0.95 m 2 H 0.75 0.73 m 2 H .

To a cooled 78 C. solution of 3 acetyl 5 bromo pyridine 1.98 g 9.90 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 33 mL was added dropwise a solution of methyl magnesium bromide in diethyl ether 3.0 M 6.60 mL 19.8 mmol . The reaction was warmed to room temperature and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was then quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 60 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 217.83 M H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 s 1 H 8.53 s 1 H 8.01 d J 1.9 Hz 1 H 2.38 br s 1 H 1.61 6 H .

To a 5000 mL 4 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen were added a solution of the title compound from Example 1 Step C 160 g 395 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 2000 mL 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 2 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 240 g 498 mmol potassium acetate 240 g 1.63 mol and PdCl dppf 30 g 23 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred for 4 hours at 80 C. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residual solution was diluted with hexanes and filtered. HCl gas was bubbled through the filtrate. The resulting mixture was filtered and the solids diluted with dichloromethane then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with HO and washed sequentially with diethyl ether dichloromethane and hexanes. The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 7 8 with saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution then extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were combined dried and concentrated under vacuum to afford the title compound H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.83 s 1 H 8.19 s 1 H 1.62 s 6 H 1.36 s 12 H .

To a solution of the title compound from Example 1 Step D 0.114 g 0.434 mmol and the title compound from Example 1 Step B 0.084 g 0.434 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 4.34 mL were added palladium acetate 0.010 g 0.043 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 0.036 g 0.087 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 0.277 g 1.30 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 hours then filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 0 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 293.86 M H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.16 s 1H 8.76 s 1 H 8.45 dd J 2.0 2.0 Hz 1 H 7.66 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 7.11 d J 6.9 Hz 1 H 6.75 dd J 6.7 6.7 Hz 1 H 2.45 br s 1 H 2.01 1.98 m 1 H 1.68 s 6 H 1.01 d J 8.0 Hz 2 H 0.50 d J 5.0 Hz 2 H .

To a solution of 2 chloro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 0.200 g 1.31 mmol and the title compound from Example 1 Step D 0.414 g 1.573 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 6.55 mL were added palladium acetate 0.029 g 0.131 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 0.108 g 0.262 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 0.835 g 3.93 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 18 hours then diluted with ethyl acetate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 254.02 M H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.05 s 1 H 8.74 s 1 H 8.49 d J 6.9 Hz 2 H 8.40 s 1 H 7.55 d J 6.9 Hz 2 H 7.15 dd J 7.6 7.9 Hz 1 H 6.86 s 1 H 6.79 dd J 7.1 6.6 Hz 1 H 1.68 s 6 H .

A solution of the title compound from Example 2 Step A 0.099 g 0.391 mmol and N chlorosuccinimide 0.063 g 0.469 mmol in acetonitrile 1.95 ml was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction was then concentrated under reduced pressure diluted with dichloromethane washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure.

Purification by column chromatography 70 90 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 287.94 M H 289.87 M 2 H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.21 d J 1.7 Hz 1 H 8.81 d J 2.1 Hz 1 H 8.48 8.44 m 2H 7.58 d J 9.0 Hz 1 H 7.24 dd J 7.8 0.9 Hz 1 H 6.88 6.85 m 1 H 2.06 br s 1 H 1.69 s 6 H .

A mixture of the title compound from Example 1 Step A 0.30 g 1.077 mmol palladium acetate 0.024 g 0.108 mmol methyl boronic acid 0.129 g 2.155 mmol cesium carbonate 1.053 g 3.23 mol and triphenylphosphine 0.057 g 0.215 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5.39 mL was heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 0 15 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 166.94 M H 168.89 M 2 H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.30 d J 6.9 Hz 1 H 7.35 d J 8.9 Hz 1 H 7.10 dd J 7.7 7.7 Hz 1 H 6.70 dd J 6.6 6.6 Hz 1 H 2.30 d J 1.2 Hz 3 H .

To a cooled 78 C. solution of the title compound from Example 1 Step A 0.20 g 0.718 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 3.59 ml was added a solution of n butyllithium in hexane 1.6 M 0.494 ml 0.790 mmol . After 5 minutes p toluenesulfonyl cyanide 0.169 g 0.934 mmol was added and the resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature. After 18 hours the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 0 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound LCMS m z 177.91 M H 179.86 M 2 H H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.47 d J 6.9 Hz 1 H 7.70 d J 9.0 Hz 1 H 7.52 dd J 8.0 8.0 Hz 1 H 7.26 7.20 m 1 H .

Examples listed below in Table 1 were prepared according to the procedures given above for the preparation of Examples 1 and 2 and Intermediates 1 and 2 using the appropriate commercially available starting materials.

Under a Natmosphere ethyl nicotinate 3 g 0.02 mol and NaH 1.6 g 0.04 mol were suspended in toluene 30 mL and heated to 90 C. Propiononitrile 2.2 g 0.04 mol was added dropwise and the reaction was stirred at 90 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the solid was filtered and collected. The solid was dissolved in water 50 mL and washed with ethyl acetate 30 mL . The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 6 with 2M HCl and extracted again with ethyl acetate 30 mL 2 . The combined ethyl acetate extracts were combined and dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the desired product HNMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.25 d 1 H J 1.2 Hz 8.90 d 1 H J 4.8 Hz 8.33 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 7.54 dd 1 H J 1.2 Hz J 8.0 Hz 4.37 4.39 m 1 H 1.71 d 3 H J 7.2 Hz .

To a solution of 2 methyl 3 oxo 3 pyridin 3 yl propanenitrile 1.5 g 9.4 mmol in EtOH 20 mL was added 85 hydrazine hydrate 2 mL . The resulting mixture was heated to reflux for 2 hours. After cooling to rt the solvent was removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by column chromatography DCM MeOH 10 1 to give the desired product MS m z 175.0 M H HNMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.71 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 8.50 8.51 m 1H 7.99 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.50 7.55 m 1H 2.06 s 3H .

Ethyl acrylate 0.5 mL was added to a solution of 4 methyl 3 pyridin 3 yl 1H pyrazol 5 amine 300 mg 1.72 mmol in pyridine 4 mL and water 1 mL and the resulting mixture heated to reflux overnight. After cooling to rt the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue re crystallized from MeOH to give the desired product MS m z 229.1 M H HNMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.80 d 1 H J 1.2 Hz 8.53 dd 1 H J 1.2 Hz J 4.8 Hz 8.07 8.09 m 1 H 7.52 dd 1 H J 4.8 Hz J 8.0 Hz 4.36 t 2 H J 7.2 Hz 2.94 t 2 H J 7.2 Hz 2.13 s 3 H .

To a solution of 3 methyl 2 pyridine 3 yl 6 7 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 4H one 50 mg 0.22 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added NaH 13 mg 0.33 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes and then iodomethane 47 mg 0.33 mmol was added and stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The mixture was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 10 mL 2 . The combined organic layers were dried filtered concentrated in vacuo and re crystallized from MeOH to give 3 4 dimethyl 2 pyridine 3 yl 6 7 dihydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 4 H one MS m z 243.1 M H HNMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.74 s 1H 8.55 d 1 H J 4.0 Hz 8.03 d 1 H J 8.0 Hz 7.54 dd 1 H J 4.8 Hz J 8.0 Hz 4.35 t 2H J 6.8 Hz 3.50 s 3 H 2.95 t 2 H J 6.8 Hz 2.30 s 3H .

To a solution of 5 amino 3 bromo 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 500 mg 2.67 mmol in EtOH 5 mL HO 5 mL toluene 5 mL were added 3 pyridine boronic acid 493 mg 4.01 mmol KPO 2.13 g 8.02 mmol and Pd dppf Cl 391 mg 0.53 mmol under N. The resulting mixture was stirred at 110 C. for 64 hours under N. After cooling to rt the mixture was concentrated in vacuo diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water 10 mL 3 and dried over MgSO. After filtration the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by preparative TLC to afford 300 mg of the desired product MS m z 185.9 M H .

To a solution of 5 amino 3 pyridine 3 yl 1H pyrazole 4 carbonitrile 300 mg 1.62 mmol in pyridine 4 mL HO 1 mL was added ethyl acrylate 325 mg 3.24 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 5 hours. After cooling to rt the mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by preparative TLC to afford the desired product MS m z 286.0 M H .

To a solution of ethyl 3 5 amino 4 cyano 3 pyridine 3 yl 1H pyrazol 1 yl propanoate 213 mg 0.75 mmol in THF 5 mL was added n BuLi 0.6 mL 1.49 mmol at 60 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 3 hours. 2 mL of water was added to quench the reaction and the THF was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by HPLC to afford the desired product MS m z 240.1 M H H NMR DMSO 400 MHz 11.79 s 1 H 8.99 s 1 H 8.65 d 1 H J 5.2 Hz 8.17 d 1 H J 8.4 Hz 7.57 dd 1 H J 8.4 Hz J 5.2 Hz 4.38 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 2.89 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz .

To a solution of 5 oxo 2 pyridin 3 yl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile 50 mg 0.21 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added NaH 17 mg 0.42 mmol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 mins then methyl iodide 30 mg 0.21 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for an additional 30 mins. 1 mL of water was added to quench the reaction which was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by HPLC to afford 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 pyridine 3 yl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine 3 carbonitrile MS m z 254.1 M H H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.06 s 1 H 8.60 d 1 H J 1.6 Hz 8.36 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.59 dd 1 H J 8.0 Hz J 56 Hz 4.44 t 2 H J 7.6 Hz 3.04 t 2H J 7.6 Hz .

Hydroxylamine O sulphonic acid 0.6 g 0.0053 mol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 pyridin 2 yl acetate 3.0 g 0.019 mol in water 3.0 mL and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 40 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were basified with 10 NaCOsolution. Aqueous layer was separated and extracted with dichloromethane 2 20 mL . Both the organic layers were combined and concentrated to recover the unreacted starting material. The aqueous portion was acidified with acetic acid pH 5.0 and extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum to obtain pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ol H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 10.41 bs 1 H 8.32 8.30 d J 6.8 Hz 1 H 7.34 7.32 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 7.08 7.04 t J 7.6 Hz 1 H 6.63 6.56 m 1 H 5.71 s 1 H .

A stirred solution of pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ol 27 1 0.9 g 0.0067 mol in POCl 10 mL was heated in a sealed tube at 145 C. for 6 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature poured into ice cold water 20 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated sodium chloride dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum to afford the crude compound which was purified by column chromatography to obtain the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.36 8.34 d J 7.2 Hz 1 H 7.44 7.42 d J 9.2 Hz 1 H 7.17 7.13 m 1 H 6.78 6.74 m 1 H 6.43 s 1 H . MS M 1 152.8.

N iodosuccinimide 1.06 g 4.74 mmol was added to a solution of 2 chloro pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 27 2 0.6 g 3.95 mmol in acetonitrile 18.0 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was diluted with dichloromethane washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel flash chromatography 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.36 8.34 d J 6.8 Hz 1 H 7.40 7.37 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 7.26 7.23 m 1 H 6.84 6.81 m 1 H . MS M 1 279.0.

A mixture 2 chloro 3 iodopyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 27 3 0.7 g 2.52 mmol cyclopropyl boronic acid 0.43 g 5.036 mmol and cesium carbonate 2.46 g 7.56 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 15.0 mL was degassed for 10 min. Then triphenylphosphine 0.132 g 0.504 mmol and palladium acetate 0.056 g 0.252 mmol were added and heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided 2 chloro 3 cyclopropylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.29 8.27 d J 7.2 Hz 1 H 7.50 7.48 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 7.11 7.07 t J 7.8 Hz 1 H 6.72 6.69 m 1 H 1.80 1.73 m 1 H 0.98 0.95 m 2 H 0.75 0.73 m 2 H . MS M 1 139.1.

A solution of 2 chloro 3 cyclopropylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 27 4 0.2 g 1.042 mmol 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl boronic acid 0.147 g 1.042 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 0.66 g 3.126 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL was degassed for 10 min. Next 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 0.085 g 0.208 mmol and palladium acetate 0.023 g 0.104 mmol were added and heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by prep HPLC provided 3 cyclopropyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.07 s 1 H 8.67 8.65 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 8.62 8.61 d J 2.4 Hz 1 H 8.19 8.17 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 7.74 7.72 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 7.26 7.22 t J 8.0 Hz 1 H 6.93 6.90 t J 8.0 Hz 1 H 2.10 2.05 m 1 H 1.02 1.01 d J 4.0 Hz 2 H 0.43 0.42 d J 4.0 Hz 2 H MS M 1 254.1.

A mixture 2 chloro 3 iodopyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 27 3 0.8 g 2.87 mmol phenyl boronic acid 0.42 g 3.44 mmol and cesium carbonate 2.8 g 8.61 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 15.0 mL was degassed for 10 min. Next triphenylphosphine 0.15 g 0.574 mmol and palladium acetate 0.064 g 0.287 mmol were added and heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided 2 chloro 3 phenylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.70 8.68 d J 7.2 Hz 1 H 7.69 7.67 d J 8.8 Hz 1 H 7.57 7.55 d J 7.2 Hz 2 H 7.52 7.48 t J 7.6 Hz 2 H 7.39 7.34 m 2 H 7.03 7.00 m 1 H . MS M 1 229.1.

A solution of 2 chloro 3 phenylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 37 1 0.2 g 0.88 mmol 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl boronic acid 0.15 g 1.05 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 0.66 g 2.64 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was degassed for 10 min. Then 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 0.065 g 0.16 mmol and palladium acetate 0.02 g 0.08 mmol were added and heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by prep HPLC Analytical Conditions Column Xbridge C18 250 mm 4.6 mm 5 m Mobile phase A water Mobile phase B Acetonitrile Flow rate 1.0 mL min GradientT B 0 20 8 50 25 50 27 20 30 20 provided 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl 3 phenylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.81 8.79 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 8.57 8.56 d J 4.0 Hz 2 H 7.76 7.73 d J 12.0 Hz 1 H 7.61 7.59 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 7.49 7.45 m 1 H . MS M 1 290.1.

A mixture of 2 chloro 3 iodopyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 27 3 0.8 g 2.87 mmol methyl boronic acid 0.345 g 5.7 mmol and cesium carbonate 2.8 g 8.61 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL was degassed for 10 min. Then triphenylphosphine 0.15 g 0.574 mmol and palladium acetate 0.064 g 0.287 mmol were added and heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by flash chromatography on silica gel 0 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes provided 2 chloro 3 methylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.55 8.53 d J 8 Hz 1 H 7.61 7.59 d J 8 Hz 1 H 7.25 7.21 t J 8 Hz 1 H 6.89 6.86 t J 8 Hz 1 H 2.19 s 3 H . MS M 1 167.1.

A solution 2 chloro 3 methylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine 38 1 0.15 g 0.9 mmol 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl boronic acid 0.15 g 1.05 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 0.574 g 2.7 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL was degassed for 10 min. Then 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 0.074 g 0.18 mmol and palladium acetate 0.02 g 0.09 mmol were added and heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting residue by prep HPLC Analytical Conditions Column XTERRA C18 250 mm 4.6 mm 5 m mobile phase A 0.01 ammonia in water mobile phase B acetonitrile flow rate 1.0 mL min time B 0 20 8 50 25 50 26 20 30 20 provided 2 5 fluoropyridin 3 yl 3 methylpyrazolo 1 5 a pyridine. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.88 s 1 H 8.67 8.65 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 8.06 8.03 d J 12 Hz 1 H 7.73 7.71 d J 8.0 Hz 1 H 7.23 7.20 t J 4.0 Hz 1 H 6.92 6.89 t J 4.0 Hz 1 H 2.45 s 3 H . MS M 1 228.0.

Methods for V79 Human CYP11B2 and V79 Human CYP11B1 Assays V79 cell lines stably expressing the either the human CYP11B2 or the human CYP11B1 enzyme were generated using a standard transfection protocol. V79 cells were transfected with plasmids pTriEx3 Hygro hCyp11B2 or pTriEx3 Hygro hCyp11B1 using Lipofectamine2000 reagent. V79 cells that stably express the human CYP11B2 or human CYP11B1 enzyme were selected for and maintained in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 400 g mL hygromycin for 2 weeks. Single cell clones were generated by infinite dilution in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and 400 g mL hygromycin until single colonies were obtained. Clones V79 hCYP11B2 CLE9 and V79 hCYP11B1 8CLC7 were determined to produce the most aldosterone and cortisol respectively and were selected for inhibitor screening. For testing of inhibitors cells were harvested at 80 confluency with 0.5 Trypsan EDTA washed once in PBS and reconstituted in DMEM 0.1 BSA media at a cell concentration of 600 000 cells mL for the CYP11B2 assay and 280 000 cells mL for the CYP11B1 assay. 25 L of cells were added to a 384 well tissue culture treated plate and mixed with 0.3 L of inhibitor or DMSO 1 final DMSO concentration for 1 hour at 37 C. 5 CO. After pre incubation with inhibitor the reaction was initiated by adding 5 L of substrate final concentration of 125 nM 11 deoxycorticosterone for the CYP11B2 assay or 250 nM 11 deoxycortisol for the CYP11B1 assay . The reaction was carried out for 3 hours at 37 C. 5 COand was stopped by harvesting the supernatants. The amount of product in the supernatant aldosterone for CYP11B2 assay and cortisol for the CYP11B1 assay was measured using HTRF based assay kit Aldosterone HTRF CisBio 64ALDPEB Cortisol HTRF CisBio 63IDC002 CORT . ICs for the inhibitor were determined by plotting the amount of product formed against the concentration of inhibitor using sigmoidal dose response curve variable slope fit in GraphPad.

The compounds of Examples 1 39 were tested in the V79 Human CYP11B2 cell assay and found to have ICs for inhibition of human CYP11B2 of less than 10000 nM. A sub group of compounds had ICs less than or equal to 250 nM and a further sub group of compounds had ICs less than or equal to 50 nM.

The compounds of Examples 1 39 were also tested in the V79 Human CYP11B1 cell assay. A sub group of compounds were at least 10 fold more selective for inhibition of CYP11B2 as compared to CYP11B1 and a further sub group of compounds were at least 30 fold more selective for inhibition of CYP11B2. Representative examples of data collected for compounds of the present invention are shown in Table 4 below Table 4

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof numerous alternative embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings described herein. Recitation or depiction of a specific compound in the claims i.e. a species without a specific stereoconfiguration designation or with such a designation for less than all chiral centers is intended to encompass the racemate racemic mixtures each individual enantiomer a diastereoisomeric mixture and each individual diastereomer of the compound where such forms are possible due to the presence of one or more asymmetric centers. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

