---

title: Sequential infiltration synthesis for advanced lithography
abstract: A plasma etch resist material modified by an inorganic protective component via sequential infiltration synthesis (SIS) and methods of preparing the modified resist material. The modified resist material is characterized by an improved resistance to a plasma etching or related process relative to the unmodified resist material, thereby allowing formation of patterned features into a substrate material, which may be high-aspect ratio features. The SIS process forms the protective component within the bulk resist material through a plurality of alternating exposures to gas phase precursors which infiltrate the resist material. The plasma etch resist material may be initially patterned using photolithography, electron-beam lithography or a block copolymer self-assembly process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08980418&OS=08980418&RS=08980418
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08980418
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 467 166 filed Mar. 24 2011 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and the UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This invention relates to improved resist materials for plasma or milling transfer of patterns to a substrate material and methods of preparing such materials. More specifically this invention relates to organic resist materials or partially organic resist materials infiltrated with inorganic protective components that enhance the resistance of the resist materials to pattern transfer processes such as plasma etching and associated methods.

This section is intended to provide a background or context to the invention that is inter alia recited in the claims. The description herein may include concepts that could be pursued but are not necessarily ones that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein what is described in this section is not prior art to the description and claims in this application and is not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Lithography followed by plasma etching is the standard method for manufacturing microelectronics and many other devices. Requirements on lateral resolution and vertical dimensions translate into significant engineering challenges for the lithographic imaging layer resist .

Photolithography and electron beam lithography are the most successful and commonly used lithography techniques for preparing high resolution patterns. The success of these methods is highly dependent on the processing of the resist layer. A resist material needs to satisfy requirements on resolution exposure sensitivity contrast line edge roughness depth of focus and etch resistance. To satisfy the requirements of both resolution and line edge roughness the resist layer must be thin. For photolithography high resolution is achieved by reducing the wavelength of the light source and increasing the numerical aperture. The trade off for improving resolution using this method is the reduction in the depth of focus. This imposes a fundamental upper limit on the resist thickness. In the case of electron beam lithography forward scattering of electrons is a fundamental limitation on resolution. Scattering is minimized by using a thin resist layer in addition to increasing the electron energy. Thus in both techniques as a result of different physical limitations the thickness of the resist layer suitable for high resolution patterning is limited. Issues associated with pattern collapse also effectively limit the thickness of resist films.

Significantly the limit on the resist layer thickness runs contrary to the needs of pattern transfer to a substrate by plasma etching or ion milling. Most resist materials erode significantly and fairly quickly relative to the substrate during plasma etching or milling. If the resist layer is too thin then the pattern cannot be etched deeply into the substrate using solely the resist layer as the etch mask. Accordingly the thinness of lithography resists presently limits the fabrication of high aspect ratio structures. To overcome this problem the resist pattern is usually transferred to a hard mask layer that provides greater etch resistance. However this complicates the fabrication process and leads to additional image blur feature bias and line edge roughness. Disadvantages associated with introducing hard masks have motivated recent work to improve the etch resistance of high resolution e beam resists such as poly methyl methacrylate PMMA and ZEP520A by processing following resist exposure and development.

Accordingly there is a need for resist materials that are resistant to etching process conditions. Greater etch resistance allows for adequate etching time necessary to create features including high aspect ratio features in substrate materials such as silicon. Additionally the resist material overlaying the substrate during plasma etching or milling should be thin so that fine pattern features can be sharply resolved in the substrate. Thus the resist needs to have high resolution little line edge roughness high resistance to plasma etching and significant mechanical stiffness to prevent pattern collapse during wet development. Presently no resist material satisfies all these requirements simultaneously. Such improved mask materials would be applicable to a range of microelectronic and MEMS manufacturing applications among others.

There have been attempts to improve resist etch resistance by infusing the resist film or mask with inorganic materials most notably silicon. However these processes suffer from problems related to line edge roughness excessive swelling and low contrast. Few of these methods have been demonstrated for nanoscale patterns 

The present invention includes modified organic materials or partially organic materials that have an improved resistance to plasma etching or milling and processes for preparing such materials. The materials may be utilized as a resist mask layer to transfer various predetermined patterns via plasma etching or milling into a substrate layer such as a silicon substrate. Resist materials used in lithographic processes are generally carbon based polymers and therefore exhibit low inherent etch resistance. To effectively transfer patterns to functional materials a hard mask is often required. Implementing a hard mask requires additional processing steps that add to the cost of the overall process and can result in diminished pattern fidelity after pattern transfer such as by plasma etching. However according to the present invention etch resistance of various organic materials is improved by modifying the organic material with an inorganic protective component through sequential infiltration synthesis SIS . The SIS process utilizes alternating exposures to gas phase precursors that infiltrate the organic or partially organic resist material to form the protective component within the resist layer. The protective component may include various metal metal oxide and other inorganic materials selected to improve the etch resistance of the organic resist layer.

The resulting materials allow for transfer of high fidelity features into the substrate while obviating the need for an intermediate hard mask. The SIS process can render a polymeric material suitable for direct use as a hard mask thereby eliminating multiple steps from conventional lithographic processing. The improvement in pattern quality using the present materials and processes can also lead to significantly better product yield. Because the thermal budget of the SIS process is low and does not involve exposure to plasma discharge it is a more benign process than other methods for depositing a hard mask such as plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD sputtering or thermal oxidation. SIS also eliminates problems related to the stress and adhesion of conventional hard mask films. Moreover it enables the use of thinner resist films thereby preventing pattern collapse

In one an embodiment a method of preparing an organic resist mask by sequential infiltration synthesis SIS for use in forming at least one patterned feature in a substrate material by a plasma etching process comprises providing a substrate having an organic resist mask layer located over a surface of the substrate. The organic resist is characterized by an etch resistance and including at least one patterned feature adapted to be transferred to the substrate material by the plasma etching process. The method further comprises modifying the etch resistance of the organic resist mask layer by exposing the organic resist to a plurality of SIS cycles comprising alternating exposures of a first precursor reactive with the organic resist and a second precursor reactive with the moieties created by the first precursor within the organic resist to form an inorganic protective etch component within the bulk organic resist mask layer thereby increasing the etch resistance of the organic resist mask layer in response to the plasma etching process.

In another embodiment a modified organic resist mask layer having an increased resistance to plasma etching in response to transferring at least one high resolution patterned feature to a substrate material by plasma etching comprises an organic resist material disposed over the substrate material and includes at least one patterned feature. An inorganic protective etch component is disposed over at least a portion of the surface of the organic resist material and within at least a portion of the organic resist material to a predetermined infiltration depth within the organic resist material. The plasma etch resistance of the organic resist mask layer is selectively controllable by establishing the infiltration depth of the inorganic protective etch component and or the number of SIS cycles.

In yet another embodiment a method of plasma etching a patterned feature in a substrate material without a hard mask using an organic or partially organic resist mask layer modified by sequential infiltration synthesis SIS comprises providing a substrate material and applying the resist mask layer over a surface of the substrate material. The resist mask layer has a layer thickness and comprises a first organic or partially organic material. The method further includes forming the patterned feature in the resist mask layer by lithography and modifying the plasma etch resistance of the resist mask layer by performing a plurality of SIS cycles. Each SIS cycle comprises exposing the resist mask layer to a first precursor reactive with the first organic or partially organic material and exposing the resist mask layer to a second precursor to form a protective etch component within at least a portion of the first resist material. A plasma etching process then etches the patterned feature in the substrate material to a feature depth. The modified organic or partially organic resist mask layer is characterized by a modified plasma etch resistance greater than the initial plasma etch resistance.

In various embodiments the resist layer comprises two or more different organic or organometallic materials such as a block copolymer treated with SIS such that the inorganic precursors selectively interact with one or more of the organic materials. Those regions of the resist layer that have interacted with the inorganic precursors are then used as the mask for a pattern transfer to an underlying substrate material.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like elements have like numerals throughout the several drawings described below.

The present invention describes materials and methods that permit enhanced etching of a substrate material through a pattern transfer process such as plasma etching. The present materials and methods permit substrate etching of features including deeply etched features with high resolution and high line edge quality. In various embodiments the present materials and methods facilitate etching of high aspect ratio features in a substrate material with a resist material having a reduced layer thickness relative to conventional resist material layers. The present invention can be utilized in conjunction with various resist materials substrates and substrate etching processes including conventional materials and processes. However relative to conventional materials and processes the present invention can reduce overall fabrication complexity and expense while improving performance particularly with respect to preparation of high aspect ratio structures. For example the present materials and methods can eliminate the need for an intermediate hard mask layer.

The success of lithography and etching methods depend on the ability of the imaging or resist layer to capture fine features with high fidelity. In addition the imaging or resist layer needs to play the role of etch mask. It needs to be resistant to plasma etching to allow pattern transfer into the underlying material. The imaging layer however is usually carbon based and has little resistance to plasma etching. Previously this non ideality is circumvented by first transferring patterns to an intermediate layer hard mask that has greater etch resistance before being etched into the desired material See . The hard mask material needs to be chosen carefully to satisfy requirements on etch selectivities relative to both resist and substrate. In addition the hard mask deposition process may be subject to severe thermal budget limitations. It must not produce contaminants during plasma etching and must be easily removable after the etching process. Such a material can be difficult to find and its use can add significant complexities to the overall manufacturing process. Even if a suitable hard mask material is found the imaging layer needs to have a minimum amount of etch resistance to allow pattern transfer into the hard mask itself.

Although one could simply use a thicker resist layer to achieve the desired etch resistance the requirements on lateral resolution impose an upper limit to the usable thickness. In order to achieve high lateral resolution the imaging layer needs to be thin to ensure a focused image of the pattern throughout the thickness of the layer. Indeed with each advance in photolithographic technology the depth of focus is reduced requiring ever thinner imaging layers. The imaging layer s thickness is further constrained by the need to prevent pattern collapse during the development and drying process. Surface tension of the wet developer and rinse chemicals can exert sufficient force to mechanically distort the printed patterns especially when the aspect ratio is large. In industrial 193 nm photolithography the aspect ratio of photoresist features is limited to less than 3 to prevent pattern collapse. However a thin resist film is unsuitable for plasma etching. These conflicting requirements summarized in present serious challenges for the high volume manufacturing of any complex system that needs fine patterns including microelectronic circuitry. Although hard masks provide a solution their use adds to the cost and complexity of the manufacturing process. For these reasons an imaging layer that combines high lateral resolution and high resistance to plasma etching is desirable.

The present methods employ a resist material modification strategy to enhance the resistance of the resist material layer to unintended etching during the substrate etching process. By enhancing etching resistance of the resist layer a thinner modified resist material layer may be applied to the substrate to efficiently achieve high quality features e.g. feature resolution and feature line quality relative to an unmodified resist layer or an unmodified resist layer in combination with a hard mask. Likewise because of improved etch resistance deeper features may be etched into the substrate with a modified resist material layer relative to an unmodified resist layer of the same thickness. The modified resist material layer exhibits a longer survival period during etching relative to the unmodified resist layer permitting longer etching and or formation of finer features by virtue of using relatively thinner resist layers.

Modified resist materials with enhanced etch resistance relative to the etch resistance of the unmodified resist material are prepared by sequential infiltration synthesis SIS . SIS is described in detail in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 374 349 filed on Aug. 17 2010 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 209 190 filed on Aug. 12 2011 which are incorporated herein in their entirety. This resist material modification strategy is flexible and may be utilized with conventional resist materials e.g. photoresists deep ultraviolet DUV resists extreme ultraviolet EUV resist materials e beam resists materials e.g. PMMA ZEP520 as well as block copolymer resist. Virtually any polymer resist material can benefit from SIS modification including PMMA and novolac based photoresists which are commonly used in photolithography. EUV resists of which PMMA is an exploratory candidate may also benefit from the SIS process to improve etch resistance. Additionally circumventing the need for an intermediate hard mask can facilitate nanostructure fabrication on a wide variety of substrate materials that may be used in a lithographic process such as silicon silicon nitride carbon based substrate materials e.g. graphene and diamond that have no etch selectivity relative to organic resist materials metals and metal oxides.

Moreover using self assembled polymeric materials such as block copolymers combined with SIS treatment in which the SIS precursors interact selectively with a portion of the block s within the copolymer patterned materials can be fabricated using bottom up approaches without requiring introduction of a separate hard mask layer. As described in detail below the arrangement of block copolymer materials permits the SIS modifying reactions to take place selectively in only one or more of the polymer blocks within the resist material to create highly etch resistant masks for large area low cost nanopatterning.

In general the SIS process involves exposing the patterned organic or partially organic resist material layer to various gas phase precursors to synthesize protective components in situ. SIS coats the surface of the resist material but also infiltrates into the bulk resist material as well. The gas phase precursors are selected for reaction with the resist material. A wide range of precursors are available for selection for SIS modification which are capable of forming inorganic protective components within a variety of organic resist materials. Examples of inorganic protective components prepared by SIS include AlO TiO ZnO SiO HfO ZrOand W. However other metal oxides metals and other inorganic materials may also be prepared using SIS. For example various known precursors utilized with atomic layer deposition ALD in preparation of layers of metal metal oxide metal nitride metal silicide and metal halide ternary and various multi component metal containing systems.

In various embodiments of the present methods the SIS process uses a pair of precursors to form the inorganic protective component where one precursor comprises a metal or metal containing compound selected to infiltrate into and react with the resist material. The second precursor comprises a compound selected to react with the first precursor or a portion thereof bound to the surface and within the bulk of the resist material. The protective component is accordingly synthesized on the surface and within the bulk of the resist material by reaction of the first precursor and the second precursor. Although a wide range of precursors are suitable for SIS modification examples of various precursors include but are not limited to trimethyl aluminum TMA titanium tetrachloride TiCl diethyl zinc DEZ and tungsten hexafluoride WF . The scope of available precursors and protective components for particular resist materials may be further broadened by performing an initial SIS seed layer to form a metal or metal oxide layer reactive with other precursors. For example an AlOseed layer may be utilized to seed the growth of other inorganic materials which do not have direct selective chemistry with pure PS b PMMA polymer e.g. ZnO MgO SiO etc.

The second precursor is selected in view of the first precursor to carry out the SIS reaction within the resist material to form the protective component. In various embodiments the second precursor may be an oxygen source e.g. HO O O HO a reducing agent H HSSiH etc. or other compound reactive with the first precursor. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the order of the precursors may be altered in various embodiments and that the nomenclature first precursor and second precursor is used herein for ease of reference. For instance in some embodiments the second precursor e.g. HO HS can be selected to react with or bind to a specific functional group in the resist material and utilized first in the SIS sequence and the metal containing precursor can be utilized next in the SIS sequence so as to react with the adsorbed or bound second precursor. One of skill in the art will further appreciate that various systems may comprise more than two precursors. The wide variety of resist material SIS precursor combinations make the process applicable to a virtually limitless number of resist materials to which a broad range of protective components may be formed by SIS.

By way of example SIS of a conventional PMMA resist material deposited on a substrate e.g. silicon may be achieved by reacting the PMMA layer with various gas phase precursors for synthesis of an inorganic protective component. PMMA is a common high resolution electron beam resist material. However it is well known that PMMA has relatively poor resistance to plasma etching. SIS may be used to modify the PMMA resist layer to improve the resistance of the PMMA to plasma etching. In various embodiments the inorganic protective compound may be for example AlO. However other inorganic protective components may be prepared by SIS modification of PMMA as well as SIS modification of other resist materials including ZEP520A poly methyl glutarimide PMGI phenol formaldehyde resin DNQ Novolac polyhydroxystyrene based polymers polyimides SU 8 photoresist and others. In some embodiments the organic resist mask layer comprises a partially organic resist where the organic component is less than 100 of the resist mask layer. The SIS process produces a modified PMMA material layer that is able to withstand a longer plasma etching cycle yet the modified resist material layer can be readily removed from the substrate.

The SIS process results in the protective component infiltrating into the bulk of the resist material layer not merely coating exposed surfaces of the resist layer. By varying the pressure temperature and reaction timing of the SIS process precursors the depth of penetration of the protective component into the resist layer is controllable. The depth of penetration of the protective component can also be controlled by selecting SIS process precursors with specific diffusivities in the resist material layer. is energy dispersive X ray EDX imaging of a PMMA resist material modified by AlO. The resist material includes an unmasked area and a masked area . The presence of aluminum after 16 seconds of an AlObreakthrough etching step and two minutes of HBr Osilicon etching is represented by the overlay curve . Although a portion of the resist layer opposite the substrate has been removed by etching resulting in a thinning of the resist layer significant aluminum is still present within the PMMA at this depth. The remaining resist layer is seen in a backscattered SEM image in illustrating that the reaction between resist layer and the precursors has occurred within rather than simply on top of the PMMA layer.

The SIS approach may be utilized with a patterned PMMA resist layer. With reference to and the PMMA resist layer is applied step to a substrate such as a silicon substrate. In various embodiments spin coating may be used to apply the resist layer to the substrate however other techniques may also be used. Next a pattern shown in may be applied to the resist layer step . Patterning of the resist layer may be accomplished by a variety of processes known in the art including electron beam exposure photolithography and polymer self assembly processes such as block copolymer. In various embodiments selected areas of the PMMA resist layer are exposed to an electron beam or photons to form the pattern . The resist layer is then developed step using chemical developers such as methyl isobutyl ketone and isopropyl alcohol MIBK IPA . It is understood that lithography techniques such as electron beam lithography and photolithography may be used to form the patterned feature of the organic resist. In addition selection of block copolymers may be used to prepare the patterned feature of the organic resist. In the case of block copolymers a self assembled pattern of spheres cylinders lamellae or other nanoscale morphology comprised of two or more polymer blocks such as polystyrene and poly methyl methacrylate constitutes the patterned resist layer.

The patterned resist layer is then modified through the SIS process which comprises a plurality of alternating exposures of the patterned resist layer to a metal precursor compound e.g. trimethyl aluminum TMA step which may be the first precursor and a reactant precursor e.g. HO step which may be the second precursor. Each precursor exposure results in a self limited half reaction with the resist layer. A purge step e.g. N may be performed following each precursor exposure to remove residual reactant. Exposures of each reactant can be performed in one step or in a series of two or more steps to control the amount of material that infiltrates the resist. In this example the exposures were carried out at a temperature of about 85 C. and a pressure of about 5 Torr. Five SIS cycles were performed with a 60 second TMA exposure and a 300 second HO exposure in each cycle. PMMA domains are first modified chemically by reaction with TMA with the Al of the TMA bonding to the PMMA in a highly controllable fashion owing to the stepwise molecule assembly process. The TMA precursor infiltrates into the bulk of the PMMA. The second precursor in this case water completes the reaction with the Al bonded to the surface and within the PMMA bulk forming the protective AlOcomponent. The resulting modified resist layer is then etched step to form the desired features in the substrate. In various embodiments the features or a portion of the features may be high aspect ratio features. As used herein the term high aspect ratio refers to features having a depth to length and or width of at least about 1 1. In particular embodiments high aspect ratio is between about 1 1 to about 3 1 and may be between about 1 1 and about 100 1 in still further embodiments. The high aspect ratio features may be formed without an intermediate hard mask. In the case of block copolymer resist the material is infiltrated with SIS to significantly enhance both the differential etch rsistance of the polymer blocks and the overall etch resistance of selected regions of the resist film.

After etching the remaining SIS modified resist layer may be removed step using solvent systems or other techniques known in the art. For example PMMA SIS modified with AlO PMMA AlO can be stripped in a bath of tetramethylammoniumhydroxide TMAH which is known to attack aluminum and is found in many photoresist developers. It is also possible to remove the SIS modified PMMA using a commercially available wet aluminum etchant comprising a mixture of for example HPO CHCOOH HNO and HO.

The etching step may be adapted in various embodiments to facilitate substrate etching. For example to initiate etching into the silicon substrate having a SIS modified PMMA AlOresist layer a brief breakthrough etch step is used before commencing etching of the substrate to remove the thin layer of AlOover the substrate in the exposed and unmasked areas. In some embodiment the first etching step is configured to break through the protective etch component which may be a thin inorganic material directly covering exposed regions of the substrate as a result of SIS processing. This protective component layer may form from the reaction on the exposed surface of the silicon substrate or the reaction of residual PMMA with the precursors. The initial breakthrough etch step also removes a small amount of SIS modified resist layer. The etch parameters for the breakthrough etch step are listed in Table 1 for PMMA AlObut may be altered in view of different protective components formed by SIS. Design of the breakthrough step plays a significant role in initiating etching into the silicon substrate. For example using a breakthrough etch step designed to remove SiO Table 1 will not initiate etching into the silicon substrate where the AlOcomprises the protective component.

Features prepared in substrate materials by photolithography may be characterized by the minimum feature size and feature depth feature depth of focus . For various devices prepared by photolithography there is a desire to minimize feature size formed in the substrate while maximizing feature depth of focus. Minimum feature size and depth of focus are driven by the photolithography process and can be defined by the relationships of Equation 1 and Equation 2 respectively.

Empirical constants kis about 0.25 and kis about 0.4 to about 0.6. represents the wavelength of the photolithography light source and NA is the numerical aperture which is defined by sin and is about 1 for advanced photolithography tools. Accordingly current conventional photolithography processes are capable of a minimum feature size of about 50 nm and a depth of focus of about 80 to about 120 nm. To achieve this level of photolithography performance the resist layer must be thin much less than the depth of focus. Similarly electron beam lithography also requires a thin resist layer to obtain a small minimum feature size i.e. improved resolution.

SIS modified resist material layers show significant etch resistance to various etch processes including a HBr based Si etch recipe. SIS modified PMMA can withstand plasma etching during fabrication of deep trenches in the silicon substrate demonstrating an etch rate of one tenth that of single crystal silicon. shows that the improvement in etch resistance enables the fabrication of trenches deeper than 150 nm in silicon with a starting resist layer of PMMA film only 33 nm thick. Thinner SIS modified resist layers may also be used for example a modified resist layer of about 10 nm could replace a conventional 100 nm resist layer. In comparison unreacted PMMA alone provides little etch resistance. During the silicon etch step the mask is etched at 8 nm min about one tenth of the Si etch rate.

The etch resistance of the SIS modified resist layer can be modulated by controlling the number of SIS cycles performed. In general few SIS cycles are needed to significantly increase etch resistance of the resist layer. In various embodiments from 1 to about 10 SIS cycles are used for extended SIS exposure times whereas a larger number may be used with shorter SIS exposure times. In particular embodiments between 2 and 5 SIS cycles are performed. Although the resist layer may be fully infiltrated by the modifying material modulating the timing temperature SIS precursors and partial pressure of the exposures of the resist material to the SIS precursors controls the depth of infiltration of the SIS treatment. Controlling the SIS infiltration depth permits the resist layer to still be readily removed from the substrate after etching. Thus by only partially infiltrating the polymer resist material the deeper portions of the resist proximate the substrate will be preserved as substantially pure polymer film. This will facilitate removal of the resist material e.g. by dissolving in acetone after completing the etching process.

Improving the etch resistance of the resist layer by SIS modification enables fabrication of features including high aspect ratio features in silicon without the need for an intermediate hard mask layer or other procedure that can decrease process efficiency etch performance and or etch quality. A range of high aspect ratio devices and portions of such devices such as DRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory interconnect vias and three dimensional transistors e.g. FinFETs may be made using the SIS modification process. Potential problems that may arise during hard mask deposition such as the stress and adhesion of the film can be avoided as well. The low thermal budget of the SIS process also makes it compatible with most microelectronic fabrication processes. By way of example shows a SEM image of a plurality of high aspect ratio e.g. greater than 2 1 trenches 200 nm deep by 90 nm wide formed in a silicon substrate. A 33 nm thick SIS modified PMMA AlOresist layer was used without the aid of an additional hard mask.

SIS modification of the resist layer does not negatively affect quality of the etched features formed in the substrate. Although conventional etch resistance improvement strategies e.g. silylated resists can increase the line edge roughness LER or change the dimensions of the printed pattern SIS resist layer modification does not suffer from these problems. shows an atomic force microscope topographic image of a conventional PMMA resist layer and shows the PMMA resist layer after SIS treatment. shows that there is little change in the LER when using SIS modified PMMA AlO. depicts a similar result for SIS modified ZEP AlO. Thus SIS permits realization of both high resolution properties of PMMA and the etch resistance properties of AlOand hard masks without degrading the initial printed image in the PMMA resist.

In one embodiment electron beam e beam lithography was used to pattern thin PMMA films thickness 30 120 nm on silicon. PMMA was spun on silicon and dried on a hot plate at 180 C. for 90 s. Exposure was performed in a JEOL JBX 9300FS e beam lithography tool at 100 keV with doses appropriate for the resist thickness. Following the e beam exposure the PMMA resist was developed in MIBK IPA methyl isobutyl ketone isopropanol 1 3 for 45 s at 5 C. rinsed for 30 s in IPA and blow dried using nitrogen.

The patterned PMMA films were treated by the SIS process to enhance plasma etch resistance. In this experiment the SIS process was adapted for a commercial reactor capable of large scale batch processing Beneq TFS500 . While the temperature 85 C. and pressure 5 Torr were identical to the established process the reaction time of each half cycle was lengthened to 600 s to account for consumption of the precursors by the PMMA film.

The SIS treated PMMA was used directly as etch mask and patterns were transferred directly into the silicon substrate using HBr based plasma chemistry. Following plasma etching the samples were cleaned in an aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide and ammonium hydroxide RCA clean to remove deposits generated during plasma etching and remaining etch mask material.

The results obtained above for PMMA are readily applicable to industrial 193 nm photoresists based on a similar polymer. show clearly the infiltration of AlOand the corresponding increase in resistance to HBr based plasma etching. The photoresist was patterned using established photolithographic and development processes similar to that in use by industrial facilities. The SIS treatment enhanced the etch resistance of the photoresist by about 60 fold decreasing the etch rate of the photoresist from 230 nm min to 

The enhancement of a polymeric resist namely poly methyl methacrylate PMMA via sequential infiltration synthesis SIS is a simple process for manufacturing dense and high aspect ratio nanostructures. While PMMA is common for laboratory scale experiments it is also a major structural component of photoresists used in industrial 193 nm photolithography processes. They share similar chemical and mechanical properties. The results presented herein on PMMA are generally applicable to the broadly used 193 nm industrial photoresist in regards to reactivity towards SIS precursors and pattern collapse. The etch resistance of thin PMMA films was enhanced to allow dense sub 20 nm features to be defined and transferred deeply into silicon substrates without the use of intermediate hard masks. The SIS process preserves the original pattern quality as defined by line edge roughness LER and provides a controllable degree of size tunability. Furthermore contrary to current industrial processes where LER is degraded by plasma etching SIS allows the initial LER in the imaging layer to be preserved throughout plasma etching with negligible change in the dimensions of the patterns. Importantly the enhancement is sufficiently strong to allow a very thin PMMA film to be used circumventing pattern collapse. The combination of reduced resist thickness and enhanced etch resistance allows dense and high aspect ratio nanostructures to be created with simplicity and reliability unavailable in current manufacturing processes. Here PMMA is used as an example but a vast array of other polymer chemistries are also compatible with SIS processing.

The process of infiltrating polymers with gaseous matter often leads to swelling. SIS modification of PMMA domains in PS b PMMA block copolymer may show evidence of such an effect but the self limiting property of SIS leads to dimension changes that are highly controllable by varying only the number of SIS cycles. For lithographically patterned PMMA features shows evidence of a change in lateral dimensions that is also highly controllable by the number of reaction cycles. Taking into account the change in film thickness the volume expansion quickly reaches a constant level within the error in metrology and the changes in lateral dimensions become slower for a larger number of cycles. Most carbonyl reaction sites are saturated within the first few cycles and it is likely that subsequent SIS reactions result instead in more thin film deposition on the resist pattern than pure SIS growth as the diffusion pathways become filled with alumina. For lithographic purposes this dimensional control is highly desirable to ensure reproducible results.

Generally it is advantageous to minimize line edge roughness LER of lithographic patterns. In silicon based VLSI circuits LER reduces carrier mobility introduces significant device to device variations and increases stand by power consumption. In general the LER of resist patterns immediately following development is the best that can be achieved at any point during the fabrication process since plasma etching invariably causes severe degradation. The SIS modification preserves this optimal LER of as patterned PMMA. demonstrates that the line edge roughness LER is unchanged by the SIS process for as many as eight reaction cycles. The LER of the initial PMMA lines has been minimized using cold development and is comparable to or better than results reported in literature.

In many cases the LER and dimensions of the SIS modified resist patterns are preserved throughout the plasma etching process. Following a short AlObreakthrough and plasma etching into silicon the line dimensions and roughness are measured from SEM images following the procedure described in the paragraphs 86 to 88. shows that the line widths only reduce slightly mainly due to the breakthrough step. As to the LER it remains unchanged after the main etching step for all line widths down to 30 nm. These results are marked improvements over industrial processes where the LER degrades significantly due to erosion of the resist during plasma etching. Although the LER of lines etched into the substrate material can improve with continued etching the roughness of the resist pattern is never completely removed. The enhanced etch resistance via SIS modification demonstrated herein presents a simple solution to this important technological challenge.

Collapse of high aspect ratio resist structures during wet development is an important problem. As stated in the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors this problem has no known manufacturable solution for the next decade. In a limited number of applications such as zone plates for x ray microscopy pattern collapse is mitigated by using buttresses between adjacent lines. However this solution is not applicable to arbitrary patterns. A simple way to prevent pattern collapse is to reduce the resist thickness in order to decrease the aspect ratio of resist structures. The reduction of resist aspect ratio after the SIS process is effective in preventing pattern collapse. show that the reduction of resist aspect ratio is effective in preventing pattern collapse. Using a resist aspect ratio of 1 followed by SIS enhancement the structures in can be fabricated easily dense lines narrower than 20 nm and deeply etched into the silicon substrate were made using SIS modification of a mere 30 nm thick PMMA resist film. For comparison if a SiOintermediate hard mask were used the etch depth of 130 nm shown in would have required a minimum SiOthickness of 5 nm using a typical Si SiOselectivity of 25 1 for HBr based etch chemistry. To fully etch through the SiOhard mask a PMMA thickness of at least 52 nm would be required the etch rate of PMMA is about 300 nm min in this hard mask etching step if no SIS modification were made. shows clearly that a 53 nm PMMA film is not sufficiently thin to prevent pattern collapse. While much greater etch selectivity between PMMA and SiO or between Si and SiO exists in industrial manufacturing tools the improvement due to SIS modification would make the entire fabrication process significantly more robust.

The results obtained above for PMMA are readily applicable to industrial 193 nm photoresists based on the same polymer. show clearly the infiltration of AlOand the corresponding increase in resistance to HBr based plasma etching. The photoresist was patterned using established photolithographic and development processes similar to that in use by industrial facilities. The SIS treatment enhanced the etch resistance of the photoresist by about 60 fold decreasing the etch rate of the photoresist from 230 nm min to 

Therefore SIS enhanced imaging layers may be used in high resolution patterning and plasma etching techniques for various applications. Although not bound by theory the SIS process is understood to not cause uncontrolled size change nor does it introduce additional degradation to lithographically defined patterns. The SIS process is also understood to prevent pattern degradation during plasma etching. Furthermore the improved etch resistance allows pattern collapse to be circumvented during wet development allowing arbitrary nanostructures with high aspect ratio to be generated with great simplicity. Taken together these properties may meet the requirements for resist thickness on the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors for a decade in the future.

In addition to SIS modification of various conventional organic resist materials SIS modification may also be used with resist materials comprising block copolymers for bottom up design of mask layers. Block copolymers are molecules composed of two or more polymers connected with covalent bonds. For example polystyrene block poly methyl methacrylate PS b PMMA is composed of polystyrene PS and poly methyl methacrylate PMMA covalently linked. By varying the preparation conditions of the block copolymer these blocks will phase separate and self organize into structures with ordered nanoscale domains in various configurations such as spheres cylinders or lamellae. The characteristic shape and dimensions of these domains can be tuned via polymeric design.

In an embodiment a block copolymer resist material is SIS modified by alternately exposing the resist material to two or more gas phase precursors. Like the techniques applied to other organic resist materials described above the first precursor may be a metal precursor that is selectively reactive with a functional group present in one of the polymer units i.e. a first polymer but which is absent from at least one of the other polymer units in the block copolymer i.e. a second polymer. The metal precursor selectively binds to the functional group the reactive functional group but is substantially non reactive with one or more other polymers that compose the block copolymer. The metal precursor is substantially non reactive when the precursor does not bind to the second polymer under the reaction that defines the SIS process. As previously described the second precursor is selectively reactive with the first precursor or portion thereof that is bound to the first polymer unit.

In general in a material having the correct chemical termination the SIS modification process results in the growth of an inorganic compound i.e. the protective component associated with the selected precursors. For example AlOmay be formed within a portion of the block copolymer BCP using a TMA precursor and a water precursor. However in portions of the BCP where the appropriate chemical termination is absent the growth will be substantially inhibited. By selecting precursors that selectively react with only one of the BCP units the process will result in growth within that polymer component only while substantially excluded from the other.

For example SIS modification of a BCP of PS b PMMA using TMA and water precursors results in growth of inorganic AlOalmost exclusively within the PMMA component to the exclusion of the PS component. The PS b PMMA material is exposed to a vapor of a metal or metal containing precursor which diffuses into the BCP film and selectively reacts specifically with carbonyl groups in the PMMA domains. The non coordinated excess metal precursor may be removed from the domain via a purge step such as with high purity Nto prevent or minimize non self limited homogeneous reactions. The PS b PMMA material is then exposed to a reactant precursor such as water which reacts with the coordinated metal precursor to form the inorganic protective component. The precursors infiltrate molecular scale voids in the block copolymer substrate and attach to the polymer chains to form an inorganic organic hybrid composite material. For example TMA will react with the oxygen species in the PMMA component but not with the PS which is comprised solely of carbon and hydrogen. An inorganic feature in this case AlO substantially assumes the same ordered nanostructure spacing as the block copolymer. Thus the protective component selectively grows within the PMMA microdomains. The width of individual domains can be further tuned by modulating the number of SIS cycles. After SIS modification the substrate may be etched consistent with the etching processes previously described. The microdomains of PS b PMMA are transferred to the substrate with the modified PMMA portion of the resist layer having a significantly greater etch resistance than the unmodified PS portion.

In light of the broad range of selective chemistries between various suitable metal precursors and polymer units as well as the enormous library of block copolymers patterned functional materials could be synthesized onto a broad range of substrates. The process is applicable to SIS modification with a broad range of inorganic materials including metals metal oxides metal nitrides metal sulfides and metalloid materials. The process may be generalized to designing the desired block copolymers in terms of materials and micro domain configuration e.g. shape and dimensions and selecting corresponding precursors reactively compatible with the appropriate polymer units and characterized by the desired final material properties e.g. etch resistance electronic and or photo response .

For example ZnO TiO and W growth may be grown exclusively within the PMMA unit of PS b PMMA via selective reaction with the carbonyl chemistry of the PMMA component of the BCP. However the precursors associated with these materials are non reactive with the PS component of the BCP which has no carbonyl groups. The SIS infiltrated inorganic material assumes the self assembled periodic nanostructure of the PMMA within the BCP substrate. Thus an inorganic material is selectively nanopatterned and an organic inorganic hybrid composite material is formed. The resulting structure may be advantageously applied in various pattern transfer to substrate processes such as plasma etching or ion milling.

Although carbonyl functional groups are described as one example of a polymer component that may be utilized for selective inorganic material growth a variety of different polymer units are available to interact with various metal and metal containing precursors through various interactions including metal ligand coordination covalent bonding and other interactions. For example the pyridine groups in polyvinylpyridine a common block of BCPs could be used to selectively bind various metal containing precursor compounds including Al CH AlCl ZnCl CdCl etc. Additionally hydroxyl groups provided by polyacrylic acid another common block for BCPs could react with various metal precursors including Al CH TiCl Zn CH etc. to form covalent bonds.

Two components are significant in driving the present processes to obtain particular material characteristics. The first component is the selective reaction of a metal precursor such as TiCl SnCl AlCl Al CH etc. which are Lewis acids in this example with strategically selected functional moieties in the BCP such as the carbonyl groups in PMMA microdomains. Once bound to the polymer the grafted metal ligands serve as nucleation sites for the second component. Within each of these components the reactions are controllable on the molecular level and the characteristic self limited heterogeneous reactions provide macroscopic uniformity in principle.

Polystyrene block poly methyl methacrylate PS b PMMA M 50 500 20 900 Polymer Source Inc. was purified through Soxhlet extraction to remove excess PS homopolymer. BCP solutions were prepared in toluene Fisher 99.5 with a concentration of 13 mg mL. The PS b PMMAblock copolymer scaffold features were prepared by spin coating from a toluene solution onto cleaned silicon scaffolds with native SiO. After deposition PS b PMMA features were annealed at 250 C. for two hours in a tube furnace under a flowing Ar atmosphere then cooled to room temperature to obtain self assembled patterns. The in plane PMMA cylinders were 30 3 nm in diameter and the center to center lateral distance was 60 5 nm. These dimensions can be varied by adjusting the molecular weight of the constituent polymer blocks.

The AlOSIS process was performed using the SIS timing sequence 60 300 60 300 seconds where the times represent the first metal precursor trimethyl aluminum Al CH TMA 96 exposure inert purge second co reactant precursor water exposure and inert purge respectively. Ultrahigh purity N 99.999 was used as the purge gas and carrier gas with further purification by an inert gas filter Aeronex Gatekeeper before entering the reactor. All precursors were introduced into the ALD reactor at room temperature vapor. In order to remove moisture and achieve thermal equilibrium the samples were subjected to a 300 sccm Nflow at 1 Torr for at least 30 minutes and then evacuated to less than 20 mTorr before commencing SIS.

It is understood that the techniques described in this disclosure may be utilized in various applications. Although lithography and plasma etching were initially developed for the microelectronics industry they have become essential to other technologies such as micro electro mechanical and microfluidic systems. Indeed the physical realization of any system with nanoscale components requires a certain degree of top down patterning. In lithography an imaging layer resist sensitive to light or electrons is exposed to the image of a fine pattern and developed in wet chemicals. Plasma etching is then used to transfer the pattern in the imaging layer to a material of interest. These procedures are then repeated many times to complete a functional system.

In this disclosure the line widths and line edge roughness LER were measured using atomic force microscopy AFM or scanning electron microscopy SEM where appropriate. The lines measured were patterned in 30 nm thick PMMA and were widely spaced line space ratio 0.25 to allow the AFM tip to reach the substrate as shown in . The AFM tip that was used in the experiments may be approximately 5 nm. FIGS. A B and C show the methodology for determining line width and line edge roughness using AFM.

To examine the effects of SIS treatment line widths and LER were measured from as patterned and SIS treated PMMA patterns using high aspect ratio AFM tips. AFM was used for metrology in this case because untreated PMMA can be considerably damaged in SEM. In the AFM measurements the line widths are taken as the average width at 50 of the vertical distance from the top of the resist surface using the image analysis software Veeco Nanoscope version 7.3 . Line edge roughness LER was was shown in . The Width function and the Highest Peak is used a reference and the line edge is defined as the position where the topography height is 50 of the full resist thickness.

To examine the effects of plasma etching line widths and LER were measured by SEM on SIS treated samples before and after plasma etching. SEM was chosen in this case since SIS treated PMMA did not become damaged during SEM examination and because it provided high spatial resolution. Line widths and LER were extracted from SEM images using ImageJ NIH as shown in . The standard deviation sigma of the Gaussian fit gives the LER as shown in . A white pixel is assigned a value of 1 whereas a black pixel is 0. The grey scale average gives the probability that a pixel is white at a given position x matching the definition of LER.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

