---

title: Producing electrolyzed liquid
abstract: An electrolyzer device comprises a container configured to receive liquid to be electrolyzed; an anode arranged in the container and operatively connected to a power supply; a cathode arranged in the container so as to surround at least a portion of the anode and operatively connected to the power supply; a first pipe in liquid connection with the container, the first pipe including an intake port arranged in the vicinity of the cathode relative to the anode; and a second pipe in liquid connection with the container.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09487875&OS=09487875&RS=09487875
owner: OSAKA ELECTRO-COMMUNICATION UNIVERSITY
number: 09487875
owner_city: Neyagawa
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121227
---
This application is the U.S. National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT JP2012 008363 filed on Dec. 27 2012.

The present disclosure relates to a device and method for producing electrolyzed liquid or electrolytes.

Electrolysis is well known as being a method of separating an ionic substance that is either molten or dissolved in a suitable solution by way of a chemical reaction. A device for achieving electrolysis may require certain components such as an electrolyte containing an ionic substance a pair of electrodes i.e. an anode and a cathode and a direct electric current supply to drive chemical reactions at the electrodes. As one example an electrolyzer device may include a container that retains an electrolyte such as a salt solution i.e. water solving sodium chloride serving as an electrolysis aid as well as an anode and a cathode arranged in the container. In the electrolysis process the salt solution is electrolyzed by chemical reactions resulting in the production of strongly acidic electrolyzed water SAEW at the anode and strongly alkaline electrolyzed water at the cathode. The resulting SAEW contains an available chlorine AC such as hypochlorous acid HClO which is known to have a strong sterilizing cleansing action and which thus enables the killing of various microorganisms such as viruses and bacteria. Further by way of blending the SAEW and the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water electrolyzed water having a pH in the physiologically neutral range i.e. weakly acidic slightly acidic neutral can be obtained. Water having such a neutral pH may be suitable for biological use.

The embodiment of the electrolyzer device disclosed herein comprises a container configured to receive liquid to be electrolyzed an anode arranged in the container and operatively connected to a power supply a cathode arranged in the container so as to surround at least a portion of the anode and operatively connected to the power supply a first pipe in liquid connection with the container the first pipe including an intake port arranged in the vicinity of the cathode relative to the anode and a second pipe in liquid connection with the container.

In the electrolyzer device thus constituted the strongly acidic electrolyzed liquid is produced at the anode and the strongly alkaline electrolyzed liquid is produced at the cathode arranged in the container so as to surround at least a portion of the cathode. The strongly alkaline electrolyzed liquid produced at the cathode is discharged from the intake port of the first pipe which is arranged in the vicinity of the cathode relative to the anode to the outside of the container through the first pipe. As a result the pH of the electrolyzed liquid remaining in the container is inclined to be low toward the acidic side whereby the electrolyzed liquid having a pH in the range between strong acidity and neutrality is produced in the container. The electrolyzed liquid thus obtained can be easily extracted from the container with the second pipe.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. Further the drawings are intended to be explanatory and may not be drawn to scale. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

The present disclosure describes techniques devices apparatuses systems and methods for electrolysis including but not limited to electrolyzing a liquid in a container by providing energy to a cathode and an anode arranged in a the container such energy being necessary to cause chemical reactions at the cathode and the anode obtaining alkaline electrolyzed liquid in the vicinity of the cathode relative to the anode and obtaining acidic or substantially neutral electrolyzed liquid in the vicinity of the anode relative to the cathode.

It should be noted that the term electrolyzed water as used herein is a general term for aqueous solutions obtained by providing direct electric current to for example tap water and a dilute salt solution in a container through a cathode and an anode. Various types of electrolyzed water may be produced depending on the difference in the electrolyzer and electrolysis system. For example such electrolyzed waters may be defined in accordance with pH and or available chlorine AC concentration.

Generally the strongly acidic electrolyzed water SAEW may have a large positive oxidation reduction potential ORP value which may represent strong oxidizing power. Further available chlorine AC concentration may refer to the total concentration of chlorine contained in free chlorine and binding form chlorine and may represent the concentration of chlorine effectively involved in sterilization.

Referring now to an electrolyzer device may include a container arranged on a support base . The container may be an electrolysis cell in for example a cylindrical shape having a sidewall . The sidewall may be made of a conductive material such as but not limited to SUS. The sidewall of the container may be operatively connected to a DC power supply so that the sidewall serves as a cathode in the electrolyzer device . As a non limiting example the entire container may be made of a conductive material. Alternatively instead of the sidewall being made of a conductive material the container may include an electrode plate arranged along an inner surface of the container . The container may further include a top cover to seal content in the container . The top cover may be provided with an inlet port to supply a dilute salt solution S into the container .

Although not shown in the electrolyzer device may further include a solution supply system configured to supply the salt solution S to the container . The solution supply system may include a reservoir configured to store the salt solution S therein. The salt solution S may be supplied through a pipe operatively connecting the reservoir and the container . The pipe may include a flow rate controller configured to adjust a flow rate of the salt solution S. As a non limiting example the solution supply system may supply raw materials of the salt solution S i.e. water and salt separately to the container resulting in mixed liquid in the container . As another non limiting example the raw materials may be mixed within the pipe between the reservoir and the container .

Further the electrolyzer device may include a rod arranged in the container and extending in a vertical direction i.e. a depth direction . The shape and size in a transverse section of the rod may be freely selected. As a non limiting example the rod may be made of a conductive material such as but not limited to graphite. As a further non limiting example one end of the rod may be attached to the top cover of the container to be positioned at substantially the center of the container in the transverse section thereof. By way of this arrangement the rod may be surrounded by the sidewall of the container in the traverse section so that they face each other along the entire perimeter thereof forming a pair of electrodes . The rod may be operatively connected to the power supply so that the rod may serve as an anode of the electrolyzer device . As a further non limiting example the other end of the conductive rod may be spaced away from a bottom of the container .

Further a first pipe and a second pipe may be arranged to be in liquid connection with the container . Specifically the first pipe may include an intake port which extends substantially along the internal surface of the container in the traverse section and a delivery pipe connected to one end of the intake port . As a non limiting example the intake port may travel substantially halfway across the internal surface . As a result of this the intake port of the first pipe may be arranged in the vicinity of the sidewall of the container i.e. the cathode relative to the rod i.e. the anode . Further as shown in a vertical position of the intake port may be at substantially half of the height of the container but such a vertical position of the intake port should not be limited.

The delivery pipe may include a portion extending downward along the internal surface of the container . The delivery pipe may pass through the support base so as to deliver the salt solution S electrolyzed from the intake port to the outside of the electrolyzer device . The first pipe may include an on off valve such as but not limited to a solenoid valve to control a flow of the salt solution S electrolyzed.

The second pipe may also include an intake port arranged in the vicinity of a bottom portion of the container and a delivery pipe connected to the intake port . As a non limiting example the intake port may be arranged at substantially the center of the bottom of the container . The delivery pipe of the second pipe may also pass through the support base to deliver liquid from the intake port to the outside of the electrolyzer device . The delivery pipe may also be an on off valve to control a flow of the liquid.

The electrolyzer device may be comprehensively controlled by a computing device. is a block diagram showing an example computing device that is arranged for the electrolyzer device in accordance with the present disclosure. In a very basic configuration computing device typically includes one or more processors and a system memory . A memory bus may be used for communicating between processor and system memory .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include a control program that is arranged to the electrolyzer device . The control program may select for example a power of the power supply and an amount of electrolyzed water to be discharged through the first pipe . Program data may include control data that may be useful for the electrolyzer device as is described herein. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system such that the selected power is adjusted and maintained. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

In an operation the rod may be operatively connected to a positive electrode of the DC power supply whereas the sidewall of the container may be operatively connected to a negative electrode of the DC power supply . In an operation the first pipe having the intake port may be arranged so as to be in liquid connection with the container . In this operation the intake port may be positioned in the vicinity of the side wall of the container relative to the rod . In an operation the second pipe may be arranged so as to be in liquid connection with the container .

Referring to in an operation the salt solution S may be supplied into the container from the inlet port so that the solution S can be in contact with the pair of electrodes i.e. the rod and the sidewall .

When power i.e. DC current is applied to the pair of electrodes by the DC power supply in an operation electrons may be provided therefrom and thus the electrons may be interchanged between the ions in the salt solution S and the pair of electrodes of the container . By this way the following chemical reactions may occur so as to electrolyze the salt solution S.

As shown above at the rod water HO may be electrolyzed into hydrogen ions H and oxygen gas O . Further chlorine gas Cl may be generated from chlorine ions Cl . Furthermore the chlorine gas Cl may be reacted with water HO to reversibly produce hydrochloric acid HCl and hypochlorous acid HClO . Consequently strongly acidic electrolyzed water SAEW may be produced. Note that in the above formula the symbol means that the reaction is reversible the same shall apply hereinafter .

On the other hand at the side wall of the container water HO may be electrolyzed to generate hydrogen gas H and hydroxide ions OH . Further sodium ions Na may react with the hydroxide ions OH to reversibly produce sodium hydroxide NaOH . Consequently strongly alkaline electrolyzed water may be produced.

As the above reactions proceed the amount of strongly acidic electrolyzed water SAEW may gradually be increased around the rod which may be arranged at substantially the center of the container . On the other hand in an operation the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water produced in the vicinity of the internal wall of the container may be introduced into the intake port from an opening thereof and discharged to the outside of the container through the delivery pipe when the on off valve is opened. In this way the intake port may also function as a first outlet port in the present disclosure. In an example such discharged strongly alkaline electrolyzed water may be used for an intended purpose.

As a result of this the strongly acidic electrolyzed water SAEW which may include hydrochloric acid HCl and hypochlorous acid HClO hydrogen ions H may be diffused from the vicinity of the rod so that the pH of electrolyzed water remaining in the container may become more acidic. While sodium hydroxide NaOH hydroxide ions OH which may remain in the vicinity of the internal wall of the container and may be contained in the newly generated SAEW may be neutralized by hydrochloric acid HCl and hypochlorous acid HClO hydrogen ions H . Consequently the electrolyzed water having a pH in the range from strongly acidic to neutral i.e. electrolyzed water having a sterilizing action and a pH in the physiologically neutral range suitable for biological use may be generated and gradually increased in the container .

In an operation the electrolyzed water having a pH in the range from strongly acidic to neutral may be introduced into the intake port from an opening thereof when the on off valve is opened. By way of this such electrolyzed water may easily be extracted from the container through the delivery pipe . In this way the intake port may also function as a second outlet port in the present disclosure.

The sterilizing liquid production device may also include a display device of which a screen may be arranged at a portion of the housing . The sterilizing liquid production device may be configured so that electric power can be supplied from an external commercial source and may thus include a cable having a plug to be inserted into an electric outlet and an AC DC converter to convert AC current from the commercial source into DC current for the sterilizing liquid production device . The delivery pipe of the second pipe may be connected to a joint pipe which may have characteristics of flexibility.

The sterilizing liquid production device as discussed above may electrolyze the salt solution S to produce the strongly acidic electrolyzed water SAEW . The produced SAEW may be discharged to the outside through the second pipe while the electrolyzed water having a sterilizing action and a pH in the physiologically neutral range suitable for biological use may be extracted.

As a result of the various configurations described in detail above the present disclosure may include one or more of the following advantages some of which have been discussed above. For example according to the present disclosure electrolyzed water which may have a sterilizing effect and a pH in the physiologically neutral range suitable for biological use may easily and effectively be produced and obtained by a simple configuration of an electrolyzer device and a simple method using the same. Specifically electrolyzed water which may have a pH in the range between strong acidity and neutrality may be easily obtained from a container of the electrolyzer device. Further the electrolyzer device may allow the pH of the extracted acidic or substantially neutral electrolyzed water to easily be selected by controlling an amount of the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water. Thus the electrolyzer device may allow the produced electrolyzed water to be used effectively thereby avoiding unnecessary disposal thereof.

More specifically a configuration of a conventional electrolyzer device may be complex as it may use a pair of parallel plate electrodes and a diaphragm wall arranged between the electrodes. Further such a conventional device may require complicated work to obtain the electrolyzed water within a physiologically neutral pH range.

Further the electrolyzer device in the present disclosure may employ the sidewall of the container as the cathode thereby allowing the configuration of the electrolyzer device to be simplified even further. Moreover a graphite rod can be employed as the anode and the costs of the electrolyzer device may thereby be reduced.

Moreover as the graphite rod may be arranged as the anode in the vicinity of a center of the container the anode may be surrounded by the cathode at a constant distance and thereby the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water may be obtained at the vicinity of the sidewall of the container.

Specifically since an intake port may be arranged so as to extend along the sidewall of the container in the transverse section thereof the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water can be discharged from the intake port. This may allow the pH of the electrolyzed water in the container to be adjusted by discharging an amount of the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water.

As shown in the figures an electrolyzer device can include a container having a cylindrical shape with a cylindrical internal wall and being configured to receive liquid to be electrolyzed an anode comprising a conductive rod positioned in the container and operatively coupled to a power supply a cathode positioned on surfaces of an internal wall within the container so as to surround the anode the cathode operatively coupled to the power supply a first pipe in liquid connection with the container the first pipe including a first intake port positioned in the vicinity of the cathode relative to the anode the first intake port having a first opening directed along curvature of the cylindrical internal wall so as to be directed along the cathode and a second pipe in liquid connection with the container the second pipe including a second intake port positioned in the vicinity of the anode relative to the cathode the second intake port having a second opening directed toward the anode wherein at least one of the first pipe or second pipe extends into the container in order to position at least one of the first intake port or second intake port. Such extension of the first pipe into the container provides the first intake port to be positioned in the vicinity of the cathode relative to the anode so as to be closer to the cathode than anode and such extension of the second pipe into the container provides the second intake port to be positioned in the vicinity of the anode relative to the cathode so as to be closer to the anode than cathode.

Using an experimental device which implemented the electrolyzer device a dilute salt solution S was electrolyzed. The values of the pH and available chlorine AC concentration of the electrolyzed water extracted from the first pipe were measured by changing the time in which power was applied to the pair of electrodes electrolysis time and the amount of the strongly alkaline electrolyzed water discharged. It should be noted that a pH meter was used for measuring the pH and absorptiometry was used for measuring the AC concentration. Of the obtained measurement results the levels of the discharged strongly alkaline electrolyzed water pH and available chlorine AC concentration of the extracted electrolyzed water at 30 minutes after the start of the electrolysis are listed in TABLE 1.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

While the present disclosure has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the present disclosure as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be limited only by the attached claims.

