---

title: Systems and methods for enhanced user equipment assistance information in wireless communication systems
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for communicating enhanced user equipment (UE) assistance information between nodes in wireless communication systems. The UE achieves power savings and latency requirements more effectively by communicating its preferences, constraints and/or requirements to an evolved Node B (eNodeB) in the form of UE assistance information. The UE assistance information may include, for example, an indication of a preferred set of discontinuous reception (DRX) settings, current data traffic conditions, expected data traffic conditions, power or performance preferences, and/or an indication of the UE's mobility between cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515757&OS=09515757&RS=09515757
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09515757
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 646 223 filed May 11 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to wireless communication networks. Specifically this disclosure relates to systems and methods for communicating enhanced user equipment assistance information between nodes in wireless communication systems.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless mobile device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems the base station can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the base station or eNodeB to the wireless mobile device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless mobile device to the base station.

In many wireless systems including previous LTE systems UEs have little or no control over certain functions and processes that prolong the UE s battery and or achieve better performance e.g. in terms of latency for applications running on the UE. Rather many such functions and processes are determined by the eNodeB without input from the UE.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

As discussed above UEs have little or no control over certain functions and processes that prolong the UE s battery and or minimize latency for applications running on the UE. For example a base station such as an eNodeB controls the RAN functions to support the UE. However due to the proliferation of smartphones and other mobile devices that run diverse mobile internet applications the UE can achieve power savings and latency requirements more effectively if it is allowed to communicate its preferences constraints and or requirements to the eNodeB in the form of UE assistance information.

The eNodeB can use the UE assistance information to adopt certain RAN functions and parameters to enhance the UE s and network s performance. For example the UE assistance information may be useful to the eNodeB in selecting optimal discontinuous reception DRX settings in order to achieve improved power savings at the UE .

Certain embodiments disclosed herein provide enhancements to the UE assistance information that enable the eNodeB to adjust the DRX parameters per UE based on UE indications e.g. the packet inter arrival time and or traffic type characteristics to achieve desired performance requirements and or to save power. For example the UE assistance information according to certain embodiments may include a packet inter arrival time IAT a mobility state indicator MSI a data and or traffic type characteristic a timer alignment timer TAT feedback value and combinations of the foregoing. Each of these different types of UE assistance information is discussed in detail below. Skilled persons will recognize from the disclosure herein that other embodiments may use UE assistance information having additional or different elements such as other DRX parameters or parameter sets battery constraint indicators quality of experience QoE metrics and or a request to go to idle mode. After discussing the examples of UE assistance information examples for signaling the UE assistance information an example UE are provided.

In one embodiment the UE assistance information includes data associated with UL packet IAT at the UE . The packet IAT is a measurement of the time period between packet arrivals at the UE and may correspond to the types of applications currently running on the UE . The UE may measure the packet IAT but the eNodeB does not know the packet IAT of the UL packets at the UE . It is possible for the eNodeB to guess the UL packet IAT at the UE by processing the UL packets at the eNodeB . However such estimations by the eNodeB are generally not accurate because the packet IAT of the packets seen by the eNodeB may be altered based on the grants that the eNodeB s UL scheduler provides to the various UEs within a cell. Thus certain embodiments provide the UE assistance information from the UE to the eNodeB including data associated with packet arrival.

It may be useful for the eNodeB to know the types of applications currently running on the UE . For example if the UE determines a long packet IAT the eNodeB may put the UE into idle mode or set a longer DRX cycle length to save power. If however the UE measures a short packet IAT the eNodeB may set a shorter DRX cycle length.

Embodiments discussed below include using a single bit of packet IAT UE assistance information using multiple bits of packet IAT UE assistance information selectively reporting different formats of packet IAT and selectively reporting packet IAT information or next packet arrival information.

In certain embodiments the UE is configured to communicate traffic type characteristics. The traffic type may relate to the packet IAT or other factors such whether an application is active or running in the background or whether the screen saver of the UE is active because the user has not been interacting with the device. Thus packet IAT is one of several ways available to the UE to determine whether UL traffic is background traffic or active traffic. For example the UE may perform packet IAT measurements for use in internal calculations or processing. If the measured packet IAT is relatively short e.g. one or two seconds or less then the UE may determine that the UL traffic is active traffic. If however the measured packet IAT is relatively long e.g. multiple seconds tens of seconds or minutes then the UE may determine that the UL traffic is background traffic. In addition or in other embodiments the UE may know that current traffic is background traffic because there is not any active or open application running on the UE .

In another embodiment the UE is configured to communicate traffic type information e.g. determined using the packet IAT information or another method to the eNodeB using a plurality of bits of UE assistance information . Thus the UE may provide the traffic type with different levels of granularity depending on the number of bits used.

In other embodiments the UE assistance information may use three or more bits to increase the granularity of the traffic type information or the packet IAT information. For example a plurality of bits may be used to communicate the actual packet IAT time e.g. 10 seconds .

In certain embodiments the UE is configured to selectively communicate packet IAT information using different formats or statistical representations. The selection may be based on for example the current type of traffic. Packet IAT may be different for each packet. Rather than sending a different packet IAT for each packet some embodiments may represent more than one packet using a statistical form of the packet IATs over a particular period or for a specified event. For example the packet IAT may be represented as a minimum IAT and a maximum IAT. As another example the packet IAT may be represented by a mean IAT and a maximum IAT e.g. with an understanding that the minimum IAT can be zero .

For certain applications the traffic is bursty and or infrequent. For example a plurality or burst of packets may be transmitted every several seconds or so. An average IAT or mean IAT for bursty packet traffic does not provide sufficient information because it does not indicate how the packets arrive. A packet IAT for the duration of the burst of packets is referred to herein as a short IAT and a packet IAT for the duration between two consecutive bursts is referred to herein as a long IAT. The short IAT may be very small e.g. on the order of one or a few milliseconds. The long IAT may be very large e.g. on the order of one or more seconds. In one embodiment the UE reports both the short IAT and the long IAT to the eNodeB to accurately describe bursty traffic. The UE may report average values of the short IAT and or the long IAT.

In certain embodiments the UE may selectively report next packet arrival information rather than a packet IAT value e.g. average IAT or maximum IAT . The next packet arrival information may be a prediction by the UE or may be based on information passed from an application via an application programming interface API to the device media access control MAC layer. In some cases information about very next packet arrival time can be more beneficial than the average or max IAT.

As discussed above the packet IAT is a measure of the interval between two successively arriving packets or bursts or packets. The packet IAT is useful for example to decide if the current DRX configuration of the connected mode is appropriate or should it be adjusted. The next packet arrival time on the other hand corresponds to the interval between a current uplink transmission and a next arriving packet. The next packet arrival time is useful for example to decide if the UE should be put in idle mode when no packets are expected in the near future or whether the UE should be kept in the connected mode when packets are expected soon.

Some UEs may not have the capability to determine the packet IAT and or to predict the next packet arrival time. Thus in certain embodiments the UE is configured to indicate its capability of determining the packet IAT and predicting the next packet arrival time to eNodeB e.g. when establishing a connection with the eNodeB . This capability information may be communicated for example using a feature group indicator FGI bit. For example one of the currently undefined FGI bits bit numbers to such as bit number can be used.

As discussed below other types of messages e.g. RRC messages may also be used to communicate the arrival time values and other types of UE assistance information. For example UE specific IAT or next packet arrival information may be sent to the eNodeB by including the information in one of the information elements IEs of the uplink dedicated control channel UL DCCH messages. In one embodiment an IE called UE IAT NextPacketArrival includes the IAT or next packet arrival information and may be included in the UEInformationResponse message used by the UE to transfer information requested by the eNodeB . An example UE IAT NextPacketArrival message structure is shown below which includes the options of short long and regular IATs 

In one embodiment the UE assistance information includes an MSI of the UE . When the UE is traveling between cells the overhead or resources required for handover from a first eNodeB to a second eNodeB is greater if the UE is in active mode than it is if the UE is in idle mode. When the UE is in the active mode the first eNodeB communicates the information necessary for the handover to the second eNodeB. When the UE is in idle mode however the information necessary for handover is not in the first eNodeB. Rather the information in the idle mode is in a mobility management entity MSE of the evolved packet core. Thus for example communicating the MSI from to UE to the eNodeB reduces signaling overhead and system resources by allowing the eNodeB to release the RRC connection and move the UE to an RRC idle state when it is moving at high speed.

In one embodiment the MSI bit is preconfigured via signaling through open mobile alliance device management OMA DM or an operator e.g. for fixed location or machine type communication MTC only devices . In another embodiment the MSI bit is updated based on signaling from a global navigation satellite system GNSS or other navigation system. In another embodiment the MSI bit is updated through MSE and the number of cell reselections or handovers performed during a predetermined period of time. For example in an RRC idle state the tracking may be done based on counting the number of cell reselections in a selected period. Whereas in an RRC connected state the tracking may be done based on counting the number of handovers in a selected period. Skilled persons will understand that one or multiple solutions can be used to identify the mobility state of the UE . The mapping of the mobility status information available in the UE to the indicator e.g. the MSI bit in and transporting the MSI bit as part of the UE assistance information to the eNodeB helps the eNodeB to make faster and more accurate UE settings decisions which in turn helps the UE to save battery life.

In one embodiment the UE assistance information includes data type characteristics and or traffic type characteristic. An example of traffic type is the background or active traffic discussed above with respect to . As another example the UE assistance information may include an indication of whether traffic is mobile originated MO type traffic or mobile terminated MT type of traffic. MO and MT type traffic refers to whether the traffic is expected to be UL only DL only both UL and DL type traffic. illustrates a data structure of the UE assistance information including a traffic type bit according to one embodiment. In this example the UE sets the traffic type bit to 0 to indicate that the traffic is UL triggered data e.g. a social networking application uploading text and or photos and the UE sets the traffic type bit to 1 to indicate that the traffic is DL triggered data e.g. a web browser application downloading a web page . The eNodeB may use the traffic type information to adjust its UL allocations and or the DRX cycles based on the expected periodicity of the indicated traffic type.

In one embodiment the data and or traffic type may be in the form of a power preference indication. For example the UE may communicate a preference for normal power settings when processing active traffic and a preference for reduced or low power settings when processing background traffic. illustrates a data structure of the UE assistance information including a power preference bit according to one embodiment. In this example the UE sets the power preference bit to 0 to indicate a preference for normal power settings e.g. in active mode and the UE sets the power preference bit to 1 to indicate a preference for low power settings e.g. in background mode . Based on the power preference bit the eNodeB can selectively adjust the UE s DRX configuration settings and other parameters. When the power preference bit is set for low power settings e.g. optimized power savings for example the eNodeB may select a long DRX cycle or RRC connection release.

In one embodiment the UE assistance information includes TAT feedback indicating a particular or desired value for the TAT. In LTE systems the eNodeB configures the TAT for each UE. The UEs use their TAT timers to maintain UL time alignment. When the TAT expires for a particular UE the eNodeB releases the UL control channels for that UE and the UE cannot provide UL transmissions until it performs a UL time alignment procedure.

In certain embodiments the UE is configured to provide feedback using the TAT timer to indicate to the eNodeB to release its UL control channels. In one such embodiment the UE provides the feedback by requesting that the TAT value be set to a minimum value or by requesting another specific value e.g. as the UE might stay connected for a longer time but does not want to waste UL resource . In addition or in other embodiments the UE may request that the TAT be set to a very high value to prevent the timer from expiring for a longer time such as during a longer DRX sleep period. A high TAT value may be useful for example where the UE is expected to have low or no mobility e.g. for certain MTC devices such as devices like smart meters or sensors .

The embodiments described below for communicating the UE assistance information from the UE to the eNodeB are provided by way of example. Skilled persons will recognize from the disclosure herein that many different types of messages formats or protocols may be used.

The eNodeB sends the list of DRX sets to the UE at connection establishment or reestablishment using a RadioResourceConfigDedicated IE to modify the MAC MainConfig IE . The eNodeB may send the list of DRX sets at any time if for example the list changes. In one embodiment the MAC MainConfig IE lists N number of DRX sets available at the eNodeB . To support multi DRX switching multiple sets of DRX sets 

The MAC MainConfig IE may include a drxset index parameter that identifies a specific DRX set available at the eNodeB . The drxset index helps to reduce signaling overhead for multi DRX embodiments because the eNodeB can send the drxset index which may be a few bits depending on the value of N rather than all of the DRX parameters related to that particular DRX set. In certain embodiments however the eNodeB initially sends a list of all DRX sets available at the eNodeB to the UE . The MAC MainConfig IE may also include an assigned DrxSetIndex parameter that indicates to the UE the DRX set number to be used for the first time after getting the list of DRX sets.

Referring again to the UE AssistanceInfo IE may include for example a preferred DRX set or preferred DRX index data expected power or performance preferences MSI or other types of UE assistance information e.g. background active traffic other traffic characteristics TAT timer feedback IAT and or next packet arrival time as discussed above . In one embodiment the UE AssistanceInfo IE sent from the UE to the eNodeB is included in the UL DCCH. An example UL DCCH message structure including the UE AssistanceInfo IE is provided as 

In other embodiments the UE AssistanceInfo IE is defined as one of the noncritical extensions of existing IEs that can be carried by the UL DCCH messages such as RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete RRCConnectionReestablishmentComplete rrcConnectionSetupComplete and or ueInformationResponse as shown in the example UL DCCH message structure above. Such messages are generally sent in response to some eNodeB initiated RRC messages. Thus the UE may not be able to send UE assistance information exactly when needed because it is waiting for one of these messages to be triggered. As shown in certain embodiments of the UE AssistanceInfo IE include a new UL RRCUEAssistanceMessage for communicating UE assistance information transmission triggered by the UE. In such embodiments the UE can send the UE assistance information to the eNodeB at any time.

For example the RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message may include a data Expected field to indicate that indicate that data is expected to arrive in the near future a power Or Performance preferred field to indicate the characteristics of a running application in terms a power savings preference or a performance preference a mobility State Indication field to indicate mobility e.g. in terms of the number of handovers or cell reselections per unit time a preferred DrxSet field to indicate a specific set of DRX settings requested by the UE to optimize its performance a preferred Drxset Index field with an index value corresponding to a DRX set that the UE wants to configure in the future combinations of the foregoing and or other fields to communicate the UE assistance information disclosed herein.

By way of example a UE assistance parameter called powerPreference Indication may be used to indicate whether the UE supports power preference indication discussed above and an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message may include a powerPrefIndicationConfig IE that is used to provide information related to the UE s power saving preference. The powerPrefIndicationConfig IE includes a PowerPrefIndication field that may be set to a lowpowerconsumption state to indicate that the UE prefers a configuration that is primarily optimized for power savings. Otherwise the UE sets the PowerPrefIndication field to a normal state.

In one embodiment a UE capable of providing power preference indications may initiate the procedure of communicating its power preference in several different situations including upon being configured to provide power preference indications and upon change of power preference. Upon initiating the procedure the UE determines whether it transmitted a power preference indication since it was configured to provide power preference indications. If it did not then the UE initiates transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message. If the UE has already transmitted a power preference indication it determines whether its current power preference information is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message. If the current power preference is different and a power preference indication timer has expired the UE initiates transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message with the current information. Also if the UE had sent an updated power preference indication to a source cell just prior to handover then after handover has completed the UE initiates transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message with the current information.

An example UEAssistanceInformation message structure including the PowerPrefIndication field is provided as 

In response to the UE AssistanceInfo IE the eNodeB may take one or more actions or may decide to take no action. For example the eNodeB may respond by releasing the UE e.g. making it go into idle mode . As shown in the eNodeB may also respond to the UE AssistanceInfo IE by sending a drxSet Config IE to the UE with a request to change the DRX setting. The drxSet Config IE may include a newly assigned DRX set or DRX set index. In one embodiment the drxSet Config IE is an extension of the RadioResourceConfigDedicated IE. The MAC main configuration information is transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE using RadioResourceConfigDedicated. The RadioResourceConfigDedicated IE is used to setup modify and release radio bearers RBs to modify the MAC main configuration to modify the semi persistent scheduling SPS configuration and to modify the dedicated physical configuration. In certain embodiments the RadioResourceConfigDedicated IE is modified to include a new element referred to herein as drxSet Config IE that can also be used to modify the DRX configuration.

The UE may query whether the drxSet Config IE is present in the radioResourceConfigDedicated message When the fullConfig IE is present in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message the radioResourceConfigDedicated message usually does not include the drxSet Config IE. If the drxSet Config IE is present however the UE queries whether the drxset index is present in the message. If the drxset index is present the UE reads the current drxset index included in the drxSet Config IE and configures the corresponding DRX set as the current DRX setting to use until further change. If however the drxset index is not present the UE gets the Current drxSet and configures the corresponding DRX set as the DRX setting to use until further change.

If the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message does not include a fullConfig IE then the UE does not perform the DRX sets update from the MAC MainConfig IE. Rather after receiving a new radioResourceConfigDedicated message the UE queries whether the drxset index is present in the message. If the drxset index is present the UE reads the current drxset index included in the drxSet Config IE and configures the corresponding DRX set as the current DRX setting to use until further change. If however the drxset index is not present the UE gets the Current drxSet and configures the corresponding DRX set as the DRX setting to use until further change.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implements as one or more modules which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

