---

title: Apparatus for performing magnetic resonance force microscopy on large area samples
abstract: An apparatus for performing magnetic resonance force microscopy on one or more large area samples comprising a base plate, one or more heat sink plates coupled to the base plate, one or more suspension mechanisms coupled to the base plate and the heat sink plates, a probe head suspended from the one or more suspension mechanisms for scanning the one or more samples and a sample cylinder comprising a sample stage coupled to the probe head for sample positioning and an outer drum for isolating the sample stage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549661&OS=08549661&RS=08549661
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08549661
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to magnetic imaging and more particularly to an apparatus for performing magnetic resonance force microscopy on large area samples.

Magnetic resonance force microscopy MRFM is an imaging technique that acquires magnetic resonance images MRI at nanometer scales and possibly at atomic scales in the future. An MRFM system comprises a probe coupled to an interferometer. The probe applies a magnetic field to a sample and measures variations in a resonant frequency of the probe. The resonant frequency variations are indicative of the tomography of the sample. More specifically an MRFM probe comprises a cantilever tipped with a ferromagnetic for example iron cobalt particle to resonate as the spin of electrons in the particles of a sample are reversed. There is a background magnetic field generated by a background magnetic field generator which creates a gradient field in the sample. As the ferromagnetic tip moves close to the sample the atoms nuclear spins become attracted to the tip and generate a small force on the cantilever. Using an RF magnetic field applied by an RF antenna the spins are then repeatedly flipped causing the cantilever to oscillate in a synchronous motion i.e. a resonant frequency . When the cantilever oscillates the magnetic particle magnetic moment remains parallel to the background magnetic field and thus it experiences no torque. The displacement of the cantilever is measured with an interferometer laser beam to create a series of 2 D images of the sample which are combined to generate a 3 D image. Often audio vibrations in the experimental environment where the probe sits cause unwanted inaccuracies in the measurements and cause malfunction of components in the MRFM system distorting the displacements of the cantilever and introducing errors in the interferometer readings. This causes the 2D and 3D images of the sample to be inaccurate. In addition current MRFM systems do not allow a user to easily disconnect various portions of the system or for rapid sample exchange to be performed easily and conveniently.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an apparatus for performing magnetic resonance force microscopy on large area samples allowing for modularity rapid sample exchange and vibration isolation.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to an apparatus for performing magnetic resonance force microscopy on one or more large area samples comprising a base plate one or more heat sink plates coupled to the base plate one or more suspension mechanisms coupled to the base plate and the heat sink plates a probe head suspended from the one or more suspension mechanisms for scanning the one or more samples and a sample cylinder comprising a sample stage coupled to the probe head for sample positioning and an outer drum for isolating the sample stage from an external environment.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise an apparatus for performing magnetic resonance force microscopy on large area samples. The apparatus uses a geometry known as Springiness Preservation by Aligning Magnetization SPAM . By adopting the SPAM geometry and using a novel probe geometry accurate scanning of large area samples is achieved. The heat generated by the RF circuitry and the heat sinking of wires is isolated while keeping the rest of the probe cool. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention also provide rapid sample exchange using a modular design uniform technique for storage of extra optical fiber and connectors for easy probe assembly and disassembly and use of three dimensional interferometers to determine relative sample to magnetic sensor position. In addition vibration isolation is achieved using springs to couple a base plate and the probe head components.

In an exemplary embodiment a Teflon rod is fitted at spring anchor points designed to be a friction fit. In other exemplary embodiments polyethylene string e.g. dental floss is used at the anchor points between the springs and plates for preventing the propagation of sound waves and other vibration through the springs. The impedance mismatch between the metal and the strings reflects sound waves back into the metal keeping them from being absorbed into the probe head. Polyethylene string also facilitates applying different tensions in the various springs and allowing the probe head to hang level with the base plate so the probe head does not touch the vacuum can body of the apparatus . A sample positioning stage resides on cylinder base plate for holding a sample to be scanned. According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the sample positioning stage is a three dimensional positioning stage known in the art as an Attocube stack.

In an exemplary embodiment cylinder is drilled with several holes to increase stiffness and resonant frequency thus reducing vibrations. Other parts of the probe head are also subject to similar design techniques. Electrical wires for powering the electrical components of the probe head are connected to contacts on the contact plate . The contact plate dissipates heat and isolates the dissipated heat from the other parts of the MRFM apparatus . Circuit board also has electrical connectors for powering components of the stage head and to make disassembly and removal of sample stage simple. Base plate is a high conductivity metal ring made of copper in an exemplary embodiment attached to lower base plate via screws and . In other embodiments the base plate is attached to the base plate via other securing mechanisms such as pins clamps and the like. In other embodiments the base plate is shaped like a ring square rectangle or the like made of a high conductivity metal like copper or aluminum. The base plate acts as an eddy current damping ring to suppress any vibrations from the external environment from affecting the probe head. The base plate is especially useful in an embodiment where the MRFM apparatus is made out of stainless steel or titanium. In an embodiment where the MRFM apparatus is made of reasonably pure aluminum or copper the base plate is not required. In an embodiment where the MRFM apparatus is sufficiently well isolated from vibration the Eddy Current damping provided by base plate may not be required.

The assembly consisting of contact plate and heat sinks and are used to heat sink electrical wires coming down from the top of the MRFM apparatus . The top of the wires are room temperature but the bottom end of the wire at the base head plate must be approximately 4 K. This is accomplished by having the wires heat sunk to an object near 4 K to remove the heat transferred through the wires from room temperature. Base head plate is cooled by being attached to plate via high purity copper foils or wires. Plate is then connected via a copper mass to a closed cycle cooler or a liquid helium bath. Electrical wires are connected to connectors on the circuit board which contact a sapphire plate not shown . The sapphire plate is beneath the circuit board and at 4 K the sapphire plate provides thermal conductivity but is an electrical insulator. The wires then connect to the connectors and onto the other components of the MRFM apparatus . In another exemplary embodiment a metal block and two screws are used to compress the circuit board to the sapphire not shown to the base plate .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the magnetic particle at the tip of the cantilever is made of for example cobalt nickel or similar metal. The magnetic sensor is brought close to the sample while the entire apparatus is immersed in a background magnetic field. The magnetic field causes the magnetic moments electrons or nuclear magnetic moments of the sample to attract the particle and the magnetic sensor to bend. A magnetic field from the RF antenna is then applied causing the direction of the spin in the electrons of the sample to reverse pushing the magnetic sensor in an opposing direction.

The background magnetic field sets a uniform magnetic field over the sample and the magnetic particle modifies this field. The sample is exposed to RF signals from the RF antenna causing only the particles in resonance with the RF magnetic field to reverse their spin directions. According to an exemplary embodiment the RF signal generated by the RF antenna is 50 MHz to 380 MHz. In an exemplary embodiment the geometry of the RF antenna is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 056. Therefore there is a bowl shaped slice through the sample in which the particles of the sample flip directions. As the positioning of the sample is modified in three dimensions an image is reconstructed using the readings from all the slices. An interferometer comprised of an optical fiber measures small displacements in the cantilever .

Plate clamps the unjacketed bare optical fiber against plate using screw to hold them together. Plate clamps the fiber jacket against plate coupled by screw . In this configuration any forces or torque applied to the optical fiber is applied to the jacket of the optical fiber which is significantly more robust than glass fiber making it more difficult to break the glass fiber while handling the MRFM apparatus . The cantilever positioning mechanism holds the cantilever in position attached by screws not shown to the immovable base attached to base plate . Optionally the cantilever positioning mechanism incorporates a handle making for convenience in mounting and dismounting the cantilever and inserting and removing the cantilever in and out of the probe head .

The RF antenna positioning mechanism for the RF antenna is implemented as a mechanism comprised of plates and plate attached to plate which is attached to plate in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In an exemplary embodiment the RF antenna positioning mechanism is a mirror image of the optical fiber positioning mechanism . In other embodiments the RF antenna positioning mechanism is different from the optical fiber positioning mechanism . Plate is a mechanical ground for the mechanism . Plate is attached to the base plate via screws or other attachment mechanisms though in other embodiments plate is integrated with base plate as one plate. Plate and form the mechanism for two dimensional positioning. In other embodiments the plates and are replaced with a 2D or 3D Attocube . Plate is attached directly to plate using screws or other attachment mechanisms. Plate and plate clamp plate in place. Plate is a mechanical ground for the RF antenna . The RF antenna is attached to the mechanical ground and the RF antenna position is modified by various screws used to regulate the mechanism . As discussed above plate and plate allow RF antenna to be modified in two dimensions and plate slides between plates and providing for the third axis of adjustment for RF antenna . Optionally an external clamp and mechanical adjustment stage is used to position the RF antenna for greater precision or safety i.e. to avoid collision with the cantilever or the optical fiber . As described in related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 145 mechanical ground thermally isolates the heat from the RF antenna out of the rest of the probe head .

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

