---

title: Beamforming coordination in heterogeneous networks
abstract: Technology for spatial domain beamforming coordination at a low power node (LPN) in a heterogeneous network (HetNet) is disclosed. One method can include the LPN collecting spatial feedback information of macro node interference from a plurality of wireless devices in a LPN cell. The LPN can compile the spatial feedback information into a spatial feedback report. The LPN can send the spatial feedback report from the LPN to a macro node for calculating a beamforming vector to reduce the macro node interference for the plurality of wireless devices in the LPN cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977307&OS=08977307&RS=08977307
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08977307
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 556 109 filed Nov. 4 2011.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a transmission station and a wireless device. Some wireless devices communicate in downlink transmission using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM and communicate in an uplink transmission using single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA combined with a desired digital modulation scheme via a physical layer. Standards and protocols that use OFDM include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node e.g. a transmission station can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with a wireless device e.g. mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node or eNodeB to the wireless device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets are used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes can generally be referred to as low power nodes . The macro node can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. HetNets can be used to optimize performance particularly for unequal user or traffic distribution and improve spectral efficiency SE per unit area of a cell. HetNets can also achieve significantly improved overall capacity and cell edge performance.

Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes. In ICIC an interfering node referred to as an aggressor node may give up use of some resources in order to enable control and data transmissions between a low power node referred to as a victim node and a wireless device affected by interference from the aggressor node referred to as a victim device . The nodes such as the macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN can also be grouped together with other transmission stations in a Coordinated MultiPoint COMP system where transmission stations from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In heterogeneous networks HetNets interference mitigation can include coordinated time domain resource blanking of macro node in a macro cell and LPNs in LPN cells e.g. pico cells . Interference mitigation by resource blanking can increase system overhead due to unused resources in the network. Coordinated beamforming CB and scheduling can provide another interference mitigation technique. Coordinated beamforming CB and scheduling can provide multi point beamforming with coordination e.g. Coordinated MultiPoint COMP or multi base station multiple input multiple output multi BS MIMO systems with distributed scheduling using a low capacity high latency backhaul link. The coordinated multi point transmission with distributed scheduling used for the coordinated beamforming CB and scheduling can also define processes for resource partition and feedback schemes to assist the beamforming coordination.

The interference characteristics of HetNets can be significantly different from interference characteristics of homogenous networks. For example due to the transmission power of the macro node the interference from super ordinate macro cell eNB can dominate the wireless devices e.g. UE UE and UE of a LPN cell over interference from other LPNs e.g. eNB eNB and eNB or wireless devices e.g. UE UE UE and UE . Interference handling from macro cell to sub ordinate LPN cells can be used for efficient HetNet operation. The HetNet can have high spatial correlation of interference from macro cell on the wireless devices within the LPN cell coverage area due to the relatively small size of LPN cells to a macro cell size and LPNs location near to a macro cell edge.

Based on spatial characteristics of the LPN cell time frequency resources e.g. subframes or system resources can be partitioned to improve interference mitigation. In an example the macro cell eNB can logically subdivide available time frequency resources into resource partitions e.g. subframes which resources may be physically adjacent or distributed in a frequency domain. Although the resource partitions is described in relation to a subframe any type of resource component such as a radio frame a radio subframe a slot a frequency carrier a frequency subcarrier a physical resource block PRB or a subband may used for the resource partitions. The macro cell eNBresource partition of illustrates four logical time frequency resource partitions. The first three partitions Partition Partition and Partition can correspond to the set of time frequency resources allocated for the beamforming and scheduling coordination of the macro cell eNBwith the LPN cells. Partition can be allocated for coordination between the eNBand the eNB Partition can be scheduled for coordination between the eNBand the eNB and Partition can be scheduled for coordination between the eNBand the eNB. The fourth time frequency partition Partition can be used for macro cell eNBtransmissions without coordination e.g. no coordination with LPN transmissions. The resource partitions can depend on the number of deployed LPN cell the macro cell and LPN cell traffic loads and LPN cell positions. The resource partitions can be semi statically configured via higher layer signaling such as radio resource control RRC signaling. The parameters of a resource partitioning can be signaled by the macro cell eNBto the subordinate LPNs via a backhaul link using an X2 interface. Each LPN can then provide the resource partitioning information to the served wireless device about a size and a position of a partition designated to the LPN cell for beamforming coordination mode with the macro cell eNB. In another example the resource partitions can be dynamically configured.

The partitions can generally be categorized as coordinated time frequency resource partitions e.g. Partition Partition and Partition and non coordinated time frequency resource partitions e.g. Partition . For example a beamforming coordination BC mode between the macro cell eNB and LPN cell eNB can operate in Partition . To enable beamforming coordination on the allocated resources e.g. Partition the wireless devices e.g. UE served by the LPN cell eNBcan provide the spatial feedback information about the interference from macro cell eNB. The spatial information may consist from a quantized principle eigen vector e.g. v which can be reported in the form of precoding matrix indicator PMI of the codebook and or a signal path gain which can be reported in the form of a reference signal received power RSRP and or a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR . Due to distributed scheduling operation at the LPN cell the spatial feedback information about interference channels can represent a majority of the wireless devices connected to the LPN and can be applicable for an entire coordinated resource partition e.g. Partition . For example the LPN cell eNBcan collect the spatial feedback information including the macro cell eNBinterference channel from the connected wireless devices v over a time frequency resource e.g. a time slot the LPN cell eNBcan compile the spatial feedback information at the LPN into a spatial feedback report and the LPN cell eNBcan report or send the compiled spatial feedback information e.g. spatial feedback report to the macro cell eNBin some statistical form or reduced message.

For example in one embodiment the spatial feedback report by the LPN cell eNB to macro cell eNB may include one or a set of the most frequently reported PMI indexes along with each reported PMI index s report probability. In another embodiment the LPNs can report a quantized principle eigen vector corresponding to matrix

Due to a relative small size of LPN cells to the size of the macro cell and LPN cells location near to macro cell edge interfering eNB signals can be highly spatially correlated among the wireless device e.g. UEs served by one LPN cell or set of LPN cells in a same geographical direction as a LPN cell. Due to a spatial correlation property of wireless device within the LPN cell the interference mitigation can be performed effectively for the wireless devices inside of one LPN cell.

For example the macro cell eNB during scheduling of the wireless devices e.g. UE in Partition can use the spatial feedback information and or the spatial feedback report obtained from the LPN cell eNB for beamforming calculation. The macro cell eNBcan suppress interference in the spatial direction corresponding to the most frequently reported PMI a calculated dominant principle eigen vector a matrix G or other spatial feedback report. The macro cell eNBcan suppress interference by using zero forcing procedure or other processes for interference cancellation. The beamforming of the macro node can direct the beamforming transmissions away from the LPN cells using coordination in the specified partition.

The inference level of LPN cell wireless devices for each time frequency partitions can be significantly different e.g. UE versus UE due to different beamforming applied at the macro cell eNBfor each resource partition. In an example for the time frequency Partition the interference level of the LPN cell wireless devices e.g. UE with coordination in Partition can be substantially smaller due to interference mitigation from the macro cell eNB than interference on other LPN cell wireless devices e.g. UE and UE in other partitions. Also for the time frequency Partition the interference level of the LPN cell wireless devices e.g. UE with coordination in Partition can be substantially smaller due to interference mitigation from the macro cell eNB than interference on the same LPN cell wireless devices e.g. UE without coordination in other partitions e.g. Partitions . In an example Partition can provide interference mitigation and coordination with the macro cell eNB for wireless devices e.g. UE served by LPN cell eNB Partition can provide interference mitigation and coordination with the macro cell eNB for wireless devices e.g. UE served by LPN cell eNB and Partition can provide interference mitigation and coordination with the macro cell eNB for wireless devices e.g. UE served by LPN cell eNB.

The channel quality indicator CQI for a wireless device can differ between a coordinated time frequency resource partition with suppressed interference from the macro cell eNB and a non coordinated time frequency resource partition including interference from the macro cell eNB. To account for differences in the CQI calculation between coordinated time frequency resource partition and non coordinated time frequency resource partition the interference can be separately measured by a wireless device e.g. UE on the partitions with coordination e.g. Partition and without coordination e.g. Partition . Higher layer signaling e.g. RRC signaling can be used to indicate to the wireless device the different resource partitions on which separate interference measurements and CQI reports are provided. The upper layer signaling can include radio resource control RRC . For example higher layer signaling can indicate that a wireless device UE in LPN cell eNB provide interference measurements and CQI reports for Partition e.g. the coordinated time frequency resource partition and separate interference measurements and CQI reports for Partition e.g. the non coordinated time frequency resource partitions . In another embodiment the wireless device can measure the interfering channel e.g. eNB UE and the macro cell eNBcan apply beamforming based on feedback from the wireless device. For example in the frequency Partition the UEcan assume substantial interference suppression from the macro cell eNBand make measurements and calculations without the contribution of the interfering channel. In another embodiment in the frequency Partition the UEcan assume the macro cell beamforming is substantially orthogonal to the dominant or principle eigen vector reported by the UEor the spatial feedback report of the LPN cell eNB serving the UE. Additional information about a beamforming strategy on resource partitions can be provided by macro cell eNBto wireless devices via the LPNs. CQI can be calculated using an estimation of a propagation channel between a LPN and a wireless device and interference. The propagation channel between LPN and the wireless device can be substantially the same for coordinated and uncoordinated partitions e.g. non coordinated partitions but the interference can be different between coordinated and uncoordinated partitions.

LPN cells with similar spatial characteristics can be grouped together into one resource partition for more efficient heterogeneous system operation. LPNs or LPN cells with similar spatial characteristics can include LPNs generating or compiling a substantially same spatial feedback report or LPNs in substantially similar geographical direction from the macro node.

The spatial domain beamforming coordination using the coordinated time frequency resource partition and the non coordinated time frequency resource partitions can provide interference mitigation with efficient use of time frequency resources. The interference mitigation can be performed for specific time frequency resources e.g. partitions corresponding to wireless devices e.g. UEs with similar interference spatial characteristics. The use of coordinated and non coordinated resource partitions can avoid the drawbacks of blank transmissions in other interference mitigation schemes due to full usage of the available time frequency resources.

In one example the time frequency resources or resource components can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission or uplink transmission between a node or a transmission station or eNodeB and the wireless device or UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard WiMax an IEEE 802.11 standard WiFi or another type of communication standard using OFDM may also be used. An uplink transmission may have a similar frame structure to the downlink transmission used in to transmit uplink information from the wireless device to a node.

The spatial domain beamforming coordination described can provide various benefits including interference mitigation on semi static time frequency resources. The spatial feedback information can include interference spatial information from a majority of the wireless devices or an entire set of wireless devices for interference mitigation. The interference measurements and CQI calculations can be made on pre defined semi static time frequency resources.

Table 1 illustrates an example performance analysis of spectral efficiency SE and cell edge performance using the described spatial domain beamforming coordination i.e. coordinated beamforming CB and scheduling where the SE and the cell edge performance is measured in bits per second Hertz bps Hz . A 4 2 antenna configuration was used in evaluation results for a non CoMP configuration and two CoMP configurations. The CoMP configurations include a uniform UE dropping configuration and a clustered UE dropping configuration. For performance analysis a full buffer traffic model a macro node four LPNs and 30 UEs per macro area e.g. macro cell were used. In the uniform UE dropping configuration the UEs were evenly distributed throughout the macro area. In the clustered UE dropping configuration two thirds 66 of the UEs were clustered around the LPNs and or served by the LPNs and one third 33 of the UEs were evenly distributed through the rest of the macro area. The clustered UE dropping configuration can represent hot spots where a majority of the UEs are located a tight radius around the LPNs. The described spatial domain beamforming coordination for both the CoMP uniform and clustered UE dropping configurations can offer performance benefits over a baseline non CoMP configuration.

Due to distributed operation based on a node basis e.g. eNB basis the CoMP configuration for spatial domain beamforming coordination can substantially simplify the complexity of a scheduling algorithm relative to a conventional CoMP configuration without spatial domain beamforming coordination which can provide a centralized scheduling operation across the entire CoMP cluster e.g. over number of eNBs . Additionally a significant part of scheduling from eICIC can be reused for spatial domain beamforming coordination CoMP configuration.

Another example provides a method for spatial domain beamforming coordination at a low power node LPN in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of collecting at the LPN spatial feedback information of macro node interference from a plurality of wireless devices in a LPN cell as in block . The operation of compiling the spatial feedback information at the LPN into a spatial feedback report follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be sending the spatial feedback report from the LPN to a macro node for calculating a beamforming vector to reduce the macro node interference for the plurality of wireless devices in the LPN cell as in block .

The spatial feedback information can include a quantized principle eigen vector a precoding matrix indicator PMI of a codebook a signal path gain a reference signal received power RSRP a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR or combinations of this information. The plurality of wireless devices can include a majority of the wireless devices connected to the LPN.

The operation of compiling the spatial feedback information can further include categorizing the spatial feedback information of the plurality of wireless devices and selecting a most frequently reported category of PMIs for the spatial feedback report. The spatial feedback information can include a precoding matrix indicator PMI .

In another example the operation of compiling the spatial feedback information can further include quantizing a dominant principle eigen vector corresponding to a matrix

The method can further include the low power node LPN transmitting a coordinated signal to a wireless device in a coordinated time frequency resource partition. The coordinated signal can have reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition. The LPN can receive from the wireless device a coordinated channel quality indicator CQI feedback. The coordinated CQI feedback can include an estimation of a propagation channel and interference during the coordinated time frequency resource partition at the wireless device. The LPN can modulate and code the coordinated signal using a coordinated modulation and coding scheme MCS based on the coordinated CQI feedback. The LPN can transmit a non coordinated signal to the wireless device from LPN in a non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The non coordinated signal can include interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The LPN can receive from the wireless device a non coordinated CQI feedback. The non coordinated CQI feedback can include an estimation of a propagation channel and interference including a macro node interference channel during non coordinated time frequency resource partition at the wireless device. The LPN can modulate and code the non coordinated signal using a non coordinated MCS based on the non coordinated CQI feedback. The coordinated MCS can differ from the non coordinated MCS.

The method can further include the low power node LPN semi statically configuring coordinated time frequency resource partitions and non coordinated time frequency resource partitions via backhaul link using the X2 interface for X2 signaling or the backhaul link signaling. A coordinated signal can be transmitted to a wireless device having reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition. A non coordinated signal to the wireless device can include interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The coordinated time frequency resource partitions and the non coordinated time frequency resource partitions can include a radio frame a radio subframe a slot a frequency carrier a frequency subcarrier a physical resource block PRB a subband and combinations of these time frequency resources.

Another example provides a method for spatial domain beamforming coordination at a macro node in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of receiving at the macro node a plurality of spatial feedback reports wherein a spatial feedback report is received from each low power node LPN in a coordination set of the HetNet and each spatial feedback report provides information about interference from the macro node at a reporting LPN as in block . The operation of calculating a beamforming vector for the time frequency resource partition using at least one spatial feedback report from the LPNs associated with the time frequency resource partition wherein the time frequency resource partition provides a time frequency resource for transmission coordination between the macro node and LPNs associated with the time frequency resource partition and the beamforming vector is configured to suppress interference in the spatial direction of the LPNs associated with a time frequency resource partition follows as in block .

The method can further include the macro node grouping of LPNs with similar spatial characteristics into a same time frequency resource partition as determined by the spatial feedback reports of the LPNs. In another example the method can further include the macro node transmitting a channel using the beamforming vector during the time frequency resource partition. The operation of calculating the beamforming vector can further include using a zero forcing process for interference mitigation.

The spatial feedback report can include a most frequently reported category of precoding matrix indicator PMI of codebook by wireless devices served by a reporting LPN a quantized dominant principle eigen vector of the wireless devices served by the reporting LPN a matrix G generated by the reporting LPN from the wireless devices served by the reporting LPN and combinations these feedbacks. The quantized dominant principle eigen vector can correspond to a matrix

The method can further include the macro node semi statically configuring coordinated time frequency resource partitions and non coordinated time frequency resource partitions via backhaul link using the X2 interface for X2 signaling or the backhaul link signaling. A coordinated signal can be transmitted to a wireless device in a specified LPN cell having reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition. A non coordinated signal to the wireless device in the specified LPN cell can include interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The coordinated time frequency resource partitions and the non coordinated time frequency resource partitions can include a radio frame a radio subframe a slot a frequency carrier a frequency subcarrier a physical resource block PRB a subband and combinations of these time frequency resources. The operation of receiving the plurality of spatial feedback reports can further include X2 signaling or backhaul link signaling with the LPNs via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection.

Another example provides a method for spatial domain beamforming coordination at a wireless device in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium. The method includes the operation of receiving at the wireless device a coordinated signal from a low power node LPN in a coordinated time frequency resource partition wherein the coordinated signal has reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition as in block . The operation of calculating a coordinated channel quality indicator CQI from an estimation of a propagation channel and interference during the coordinated time frequency resource partition follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be receiving at the wireless device a non coordinated signal from the LPN in a non coordinated time frequency resource partition wherein the non coordinated signal includes interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition as in block . The method further includes calculating a non coordinated CQI from an estimation of a propagation channel and interference including a macro node interference channel during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition as in block .

The method can further include the wireless device transmitting the coordinated CQI to the LPN to enable transmission with coordinated modulation and coding scheme MCS for the coordinated signal. The wireless device can transmit the non coordinated CQI to the LPN to enable transmission with non coordinated MCS for the non coordinated signal to be determined the LPN. In another example the wireless device can transmit spatial feedback information of macro node interference channel from the wireless device to the LPN. The spatial feedback information can include a quantized principle eigen vector a preceding matrix indicator PMI of a code book a signal path gain a reference signal received power RSRP a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR or combinations of these feedbacks. The coordinated time frequency resource partitions and the non coordinated time frequency resource partitions can include a radio frame a radio subframe a slot a frequency carrier a frequency subcarrier a physical resource block PRB a subband and combinations of these time frequency resources. The wireless device can include a user equipment UE or a mobile station MS . The wireless device can be configured to connect to at least one of a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and a wireless wide area network WWAN . The wireless device can include at least one of an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

The macro node can include a beamforming coordination device . The beamforming coordination device for the macro node can include a receiving module processing module a scheduler or a transceiver module . The receiving module can be configured to receive a plurality of spatial feedback reports. A spatial feedback report can be received from each low power node LPN in a coordination set of the HetNet. Each spatial feedback report can provide information about interference from the macro node at a reporting LPN. The spatial feedback report can include a most frequently reported category of precoding matrix indicator PMI by wireless devices served by a reporting LPN a quantized dominant principle eigen vector of the wireless devices served by the reporting LPN a matrix G generated by the reporting LPN from the wireless devices served by the reporting LPN and combinations of these reports. The quantized dominant principle eigen vector can correspond to a matrix

The processing module can be configured to calculate a beamforming vector for a time frequency resource partition using at least one spatial feedback report from the LPNs associated with a time frequency resource partition. The time frequency resource partition can provide a time frequency resource for transmission coordination between the macro node and LPNs associated with the time frequency resource partition. The beamforming vector can be configured to suppress interference in the spatial direction of the LPNs associated with the time frequency resource partition. The processing module can be further configured to calculate the beamforming vector using a zero forcing process for interference mitigation. The scheduler can be configured to group LPNs with similar spatial characteristics into a same time frequency resource partition as determined by the spatial feedback reports of the LPNs. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit a channel using the beamforming vector during the time frequency resource partition.

The LPN can include a beamforming coordination device . The beamforming coordination device for the LPN can include a receiving module a spatial feedback processor a transmitting module a modulating and coding module and a configuration module . The receiving module of the LPN can be configured to collect spatial feedback information of macro node interference from a plurality of wireless devices in a LPN cell. The spatial feedback processor can be configured to compile the spatial feedback information at the LPN into a spatial feedback report. In an example the spatial feedback information can include a precoding matrix indicator PMI or PMI index. The spatial feedback processor can be configured to categorize the spatial feedback information of the plurality of wireless devices and select a most frequently reported category of the PMIs for the spatial feedback report. In another example the spatial feedback processor can be configured to quantize a dominant principle eigen vector corresponding to a matrix

The transmitting module can be configured to send the spatial feedback report from the LPN to a macro node for calculating a beamforming vector to reduce the macro node interference for the plurality of wireless devices in the LPN cell. In an example the transmitting module can be further configured to transmit a coordinated signal to a wireless device in a coordinated time frequency resource partition and transmit a non coordinated signal to the wireless device a non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The coordinated signal can have reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition. The non coordinated signal can include interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The receiving module of the LPN can be further configured to receive from the wireless device a coordinated channel quality indicator CQI feedback and receive from the wireless device a non coordinated CQI feedback. The coordinated CQI feedback can include an estimation of a propagation channel and interference during the coordinated time frequency resource partition at the wireless device. The non coordinated CQI feedback can include an estimation of a propagation channel and interference including a macro node interference channel during non coordinated time frequency resource partition at the wireless device. The modulating and coding module can be configured to modulate and code the coordinated signal using a coordinated modulation and coding scheme MCS based on the coordinated CQI feedback and modulate and code the non coordinated signal using a non coordinated MCS based on the non coordinated CQI feedback. The coordinated MCS can differ from the non coordinated MCS.

The configuration module can be configured to semi statically configure coordinated time frequency resource partitions and non coordinated time frequency resource partitions via upper layer signaling with the macro node. A coordinated signal transmitted to a wireless device can have reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition. A non coordinated signal to the wireless device includes interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition.

The wireless device e.g. UE can include a beamforming coordination device . The beamforming coordination device can include a downlink receiving module a measurement module and an uplink transmitting module . The downlink receiving module can be configured to receive a coordinated signal from a low power node LPN in a coordinated time frequency resource partition and receive a non coordinated signal from the LPN in a non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The coordinated signal can have reduced interference from a macro node transmission in the spatial direction of the wireless device using beamforming during the coordinated time frequency resource partition. The non coordinated signal can include interference from a macro node transmission during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition.

The measurement module can be configured to calculate a coordinated channel quality indicator CQI from an estimation of a propagation channel and interference during the coordinated time frequency resource partition and calculate a non coordinated CQI from an estimation of a propagation channel and interference including a macro node interference channel during the non coordinated time frequency resource partition. The uplink transmitting module can be configured to transmit the coordinated CQI from the wireless device to the LPN to enable transmission with coordinated modulation and coding scheme MCS for the coordinated signal and transmit the non coordinated CQI from the wireless device to the LPN to enable transmission with non coordinated MCS for the non coordinated signal to be determined the LPN. The uplink transmitting module can be further configured to transmit spatial feedback information of macro node interference channel from the wireless device to the LPN. The spatial feedback information can include a quantized principle eigen vector a preceding matrix indicator PMI of a code book a signal path gain a reference signal received power RSRP a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR or combinations this information.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

