---

title: Real-time video image analysis for providing virtual interior design
abstract: System, method, and computer program product are provided for using real-time video analysis, such as augmented reality, to assist a user of a mobile device with interior design. Through the use of real-time object recognition features, logos, artwork, products, locations, etc. can be recognized in a real-time video stream and can subsequently be matched with data associated with such to assist the user with selecting the proper design elements for a space, such as a kitchen. The proper design elements may be based off of several factors regarding the design space, include the dimensions of the space, the location of windows, doors and outlets, geographic and positional data, other space features, current design elements, architectural features, décor, and style data of the space, etc. This invention provides a virtual area with design elements, such that a user may view the area and determine the proper décor for the area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08668498&OS=08668498&RS=08668498
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08668498
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This Non provisional patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 969 titled Real Time Video Image Analysis for Providing Virtual Interior Design filed on Jul. 18 2011 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Home owners and renters have many options when it comes to furnishing and decorating their homes or apartments. Home owners may add design elements such as furniture paint flooring lighting decorations and or the like to their homes to enhance the look of their home and make the home unique to the home owner. Furthermore there are many options for each of these design elements. For example a coffee table may come in many different sizes shapes colors with accessories with drawers etc. There are so many options that there are retails stores solely dedicated to design elements. Furthermore selecting and positioning these design elements can be a difficult task for most home owners. In fact many home owners turn to professional interior designers to design rooms of their home.

Many factors may play a role in interior design. For example a home owner s background likes dislikes dimensions of a room location of the home and the like all play a role in which design elements a person selects for their home. Even with advances in technology knowing the design that the home owner may like the best may be a challenging task even for the home owner.

Today modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like have the capability to facilitate payment for a cup of coffee or provide a boarding pass for a flight. These advances combine multiple technologies through a handheld mobile device to provide a user with an array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such mobile devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common and standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices compasses sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that can be used with mobile devices. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR presentment application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands. The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatuses e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with designing or decorating an interior space.

Using real time video analysis such as augmented reality or the like the user may capture information regarding a defined design space such as the user s property around his her house. The system reviews the captured information and provides the user of mobile device virtual interior design information such as indications of design elements that may fit within the design space and conform to the overall look of the space prior to the user actually moving the design elements into the design space and visualizing the completely designed and furnished MOM.

Interior design information may be provided to a user based on an analysis of several factors relating to the captured design space the user wishes to receive design ideas. These factors include the dimensions of the space the location of windows within the space the location of doors within the space the location of outlets electrical communication television and the like within the space current design elements in the space e.g. furniture pictures drapes carpet rugs flooring hardwoods parquet etc. architectural features columns bay windows etc. etc. d cor color schemes design style etc. and or other features found within the space. The style of the current room design may also be captured as a factor such as contemporary arts and crafts classic etc. Further geographic and positional information may be of importance as determined via GPS and compass of the mobile device capturing the image. The geographic location of the room may aid in determining design styles types of fabrics etc. For example a room located near a beach may be more apt for cottage or beach designs. A room located in a geographic area in cold climes may be more apt for design elements imbuing a sense of warmth. Compass direction of the mobile device capturing the photo or image may be an aid in determining which direction the windows in the space face for indications of lighting shading and heat exposure to decorative elements.

Based on these factors the system may provide a virtual layout of the design area with recommended positions of design elements. In one example the user may have several design elements that he she wishes to incorporate into the design space. The user may capture images of these design elements and the system may recommend positioning the design elements in the space based on the factors. In another example the user may be shopping for a sofa at a local retail store. If the user is unsure about whether the sofa will fit into the design space the user may capture an image of the sofa. The system may then analyze the design element with respect to the design space and provide the user with a virtual image of the sofa in the design space. In this way the user may visualize whether the sofa will fit in the desired location in the design space. The user may then select the indicator associated with that design element the sofa and purchase the element via his her mobile device.

In some embodiments the indicator associated with that specific design element may also provide other design elements suitable for that space. For example if the user selects the indicator associated with the sofa the system may provide other sofas with similar features that may also fit in that space. The system may also recommend other colored sofas based on the d cor of the design space.

In some embodiments the user may select from the real time video display a design element within the design space. The user may then move the design element to other locations within the design space on the display in order to get a visual of the possible positioning of that element within the design space. The system may then analyze the factors for the location in which the user moved the element to and determine if the design element will be suitable for the new user defined position.

In yet other embodiments the user may provide a design elements that he she wants to have incorporated into the design space. The user may provide the design element by capturing an image of it finding it on the Internet at a retailer and or the like. The system may then position the design elements that the user provides in suitable positions within the design space. For example a user may wish to add a painting to his her living room. The system may position the painting on a wall in the living room that the system recommends based on the factors associated with the design space.

In another example the user may be in a retail store and see a specific design element that he she would really like to have in a design area. The user may use real time video analysis such as augmented reality or the like to capture information regarding the design element. The system may then provide the user with a display incorporating that design element into the user s design space. In this way the user may visualize the design element in his her space and determine if he she wishes to purchase the design element.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for providing interior design recommendations comprising receiving a captured an image of an interior area for the interior design from a user building a directory of data relating to the interior area to design wherein the directory comprises information regarding characteristics of the interior area to design receiving information about products from a mobile device wherein the products are to be incorporated in the interior area to design identifying the products associated with the received information about products matching the product with the directory of data relating to the interior area to design and presenting the products and indicators associated with the products via the mobile device of a user over the captured image of the area to design wherein the user may position the products within the captured image of the interior area to design.

In some embodiments the directory further comprises information regarding the dimensions of the area geographical location and prior decorating information with respect to the user.

In some embodiments receiving product information comprises manually inputted data wherein the manually inputted data indicates user products preferences. Receiving product information may also comprise receiving real time imaging of a product. The products may include furniture to be incorporated into the area and or other items to be incorporated into the area. In some embodiments presenting the products and indicators associated with the products comprises superimposing the products and indicators associated with the products over real time video that is capture by the mobile phone of the area.

In some embodiments identifying the products associated with the received information about products further comprises capturing a tag located on or proximate to the product and reading the tag to identify the product.

In some embodiments presenting an indicator associated with the product comprises displaying the indicator on a display of the mobile device. The indicator associated with the product may further comprise superimposing the indicator over real time video that is captured by the mobile device. The indicator is also selectable by the user. When the user selects the indicator the user receives an offer to purchase the product.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to elements throughout. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution. Still in other embodiments of the invention the financial institution described herein may be replaced with other types of businesses that offer payment account systems to users.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

Some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving design spaces. Design spaces include any space indoor or outdoor that a user may wish to decorate with furniture flooring paint pictures or other design elements. Design spaces typically include rooms in a house rooms in an apartment office space hotel rooms outdoor patios mobile homes and or the like. Further some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as including design elements. Design elements include any items that a user may wish to place in a design space. Design elements may include furniture paint flooring entertainment items pictures tables lamps furniture cooking items vegetation and or the like.

Next in block a determination is made as to which images from the real time video stream are associated with design spaces or design elements the user of a mobile device may visualize. The determination is made by analyzing the real time video stream for objects logos dimensions compass information and or other design space indicating or design element indicating features to determine what is within the video stream field and to then provide matches e.g. associations of design elements with design spaces based on several factors. These factors include the dimensions of the space the location of windows within the space the location of doors within the space the location of outlets electrical communication television and the like within the space current design elements in the space e.g. furniture pictures drapes carpet rugs flooring hardwoods parquet etc. architectural features columns bay windows etc. etc. d cor color schemes design style etc. and or other features found within the space. The style of the current room design may also be captured as a factor such as contemporary arts and crafts classic etc. Further geographic and positional information may be of importance as determined via GPS and or compass of the mobile device capturing the image. The geographic location of the room may aid in determining design styles types of fabrics etc.

Thereafter at block one or more indicators are presented on the display of the mobile device in conjunction with the real time video stream. In some embodiments the indicators are presented when the user captures a design element or a design space. Each of the indicators is associated with an image determined to be a design element or a design space. The images associated with a design element are matched with the design space of the user of the mobile device such that the design elements selected are specifically integrated into the users design space. For example if a user selects a sofa from a retail store as the design element. The system will integrate it into the design space of the user. Furthermore the system will determine based on the factors of the design space a recommended position for the sofa within the design area. The user may view the design area with the sofa in the location recommended by the system or the user may move it to different locations within the design area. The indicator may take various forms such as display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot or the like. In specific embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that a user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command and or the like the design element or indicator to provide display of specifics related to the design element and offers for purchasing the element. In some embodiments the specifics related to the design element may include other user s comments about the element different colors different sizes and different shapes of the element. In addition the information related to the design element or design space may include a review of the element or area by the system.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments the user is an individual. The user may a home owner renter or any other individual wishing to use real time video analysis for interior design information. The user may be in range of any design space or design element for which the user may wish to consider implementing using the real time video system. In some embodiments the user may purchase a design element via selecting the indicator associated with the element. The transaction for purchase of the design element may be made by the user using the mobile device such as a mobile wallet e.g. smart phone PDA etc. or other types of payment options such as credit cards checks cash debit cards loans lines of credit virtual currency etc. that allow the user to make a transaction to purchase the design element.

As illustrated in the real time video image server generally comprises a communication device a processing device and a memory device . As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the mobile device . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

In some embodiments the processing device may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processing device may recognize design elements or design spaces that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processing device may recognize specific design elements and or classes of elements and store information related to the recognized design element in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of a design element and or class of elements the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes a design element that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the design element may be the same design element previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the design element. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of a design element is accepted as the final recognition of the element.

As further illustrated in the real time video image server comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of a server application . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to design information including but not limited to data created and or used by the server application or a directory created by the user .

In the embodiment illustrated in and described throughout much of this specification the server application may analyses design spaces captured by a user using a real time video stream. The server application analyzes factors associated with the design space in order to predict a recommended location to place various design elements within the design space. The factors the server application analyzes includes but is not limited to the dimensions of the space the location of windows within the space the location of doors within the space the location of outlets electrical communication television and the like within the space current design elements in the space e.g. furniture pictures drapes carpet rugs flooring hardwoods parquet etc. architectural features columns bay windows etc. etc. d cor color schemes design style etc. and or other features found within the space. The style of the current room design may also be captured as a factor such as contemporary arts and crafts classic etc. Further geographic and positional information may be of importance as determined via the GPS and compass of the mobile device capturing the image. The geographic location of the room may aid in determining design styles types of fabrics etc.

Once the server application analyzes the user s design space the server application provides the user a virtual design space incorporating proposed design elements based on the factors. For example the user may have captured his her living room using the real time image capture on his her mobile device . The server application after analyzing the factors associated with the living room provides the user a virtual image of his her living room that includes the design elements the user may have already in the living room or in a directory of elements to place into the living room. The server application then recommends a location of the elements so that they fit into the space. The server application may recommend several different variations of the design elements. In this way the user may visualize several different designs of the space and select the one the user likes. In other embodiments the user may move the design elements into different locations within the virtual design space. For example the server application may recommend a coffee table located in the center of the room. However the user may wish to remove the coffee table from the center of the room and add two end tables instead. If the user wishes to do that he she is able to select remove move and or add different design elements within the virtual design area such that the user may find a combination of design elements that are satisfactory to him. Furthermore the virtual image of the design space provides the user an ability to visualize a proposed interior design.

In some embodiments the server application may further provide access to a directory storing design elements or design spaces of a user . The server application allows the user to manually input via a mobile device or other device with similar processing features such as a computer tablet hand held device etc. design elements that the user wishes for the system to consider when adding design elements to a design space. The user inputs may be added by the user through the use of an interface social networking site and or the like. In this way the user may provide user inputs by several means thus allowing for easy accessibility to update the user s design element requests. The data stored within the server application provides computer readable instructions to the processing device to allow for selection of design elements and determining a recommended location for design elements. The server application stores the user inputted design element so that the server application may incorporate the inputted design elements into a design space when appropriate.

In some embodiments as described in further detail below the server application may recognize objects within an environment . In other embodiments the object recognition application may recognize objects within an environment. The object may be interpreted with respect to data in the memory device and be recognized as a possible design element that may be available to the user . In this way the real time video image server provides object interpretations and analysis with respect to the data on the real time video image server .

Whether the design elements are already located in the design space or are manually inputted by the user the user may select the design element and move it within the design space. In this way the user may place the design elements where he she wishes and view the design space with the design elements in various locations. When the user moves the design element into a location within the design space an indicator may show the reasons the design element was not recommended for that location. For example an electrical outlet may be covered up by the design element.

In some embodiments the server application may analyses design elements captured by a user using a real time video stream at a store or retailer. In other embodiments the object recognition application may analyze design elements capture by a user using a real time video stream at a store or retailer. The server application analyzes the design elements the user captures and stores the design elements in the memory device . The server application may incorporate the design element into a design space such that the user may be able to visualize the design element in the design space. For example the user may be shopping at a retail store for a new refrigerator. The user may be able to capture an image of the refrigerator and incorporate it into the design space or kitchen virtually. In this way the user may visualize whether the new refrigerator will fit in the space provided for the refrigerator in the kitchen. The server application may determine that the design element in this case the refrigerator fits in the space provided for the element several ways. First the server application may use a form of visual scaling to determine the size of the design element. Visual scaling includes the server application establishing pre determined sizes for objects found within the captured image and visually scaling the size of the element based off of the size of the object. Second the server application may use user inputted dimensions. These dimensions may be inputted by a user or the user may capture an image of the dimensions of the element. Third the system may provide the server application a database with dimensions of several design elements with the database therefore the server application may determine that the refrigerator is one of the design elements within the database and provide the user with the dimensions.

The server application may also provide an indicator to the user associated with the design element. In other embodiments the AR presentment application may provide an indicator to the user associated with the design element. The indicator may provide the user with the ability to purchase the design element or indication as to other similar design elements. For example if the refrigerator the user selected in the retail store does not fit into the space provided in the kitchen the server application may provide through the indicator other similar refrigerators that may fit in the space. The indicator may also provide information about the design element. For example the capacity brand energy use etc. of the refrigerator.

The server application may further provide the user on the display of a mobile device offers to purchase the design elements or similar design elements. Offers may be from several retailers of the design element thus giving the user options from whom to purchase. Offers to purchase may further include special offers in the form of a discount coupon etc. that may expire within a predetermined amount of time or may be available to the user at any time he she wishes to make a transaction. If the user selects to purchase the design element through the indicator on the display of the mobile device the server application may communicably link with the user s desired financial institution to authorize the transaction. In this way the system may provide convenient purchasing of a design element that the user wishes to include in his her design space.

As further illustrated is an environment in which the user utilizes a mobile device to capture real time video of an environment in an augmented reality experience. As described in further detail below with respect to the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing real time video of the surrounding environment . The real time video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with a camera capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Objects include but are not limited to a design element design space and or the like that the user may wish to utilize the system for. Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to the mobile device . A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted to identify specific objects . In some embodiments the marker may be interpreted by the mobile device . In other embodiments the marker may be interpreted by the real time video image server . In yet other embodiments the marker may be interpreted by both the mobile device and the real time video image server . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus marker for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device and or the financial institution application to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots of a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

In some embodiments markers may be recognized by the server application . In yet other embodiments markers may be recognized by the object recognition application of the mobile device . For example the server application may identify a marker as being a specific design element the server application may then provide real time data indicating the proposed location for the design element within the design space of the user . For example the marker may identify the design element as a bookshelf. In this way the server application may provide an appropriate location within the user s design space for the bookshelf such as against a wall near a desk. In some embodiments the server application may provide an indicator of the other types of design elements that may be recommended in the design space. In other embodiments the AR presentment application of the mobile device may provide an indicator of the other types of design elements that may be recommended in the design space. For example with a design space including a bookshelf and a desk server application may also suggest lamps calendars a phone or other design elements that may go into an office environment.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The mobile device may generally include a processing device communicably coupled to such devices as a memory device user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer a camera a positioning system device one or more chips etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or a datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server.

The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory device . For example the processing device may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processing device may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application and or an AR presentment application . The object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory device of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the chip . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application from a server. In this way the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may remain at the server such as the real time video image server within the server application .

The object recognition application provides the mobile device with object recognition capabilities. In this way objects such as products and or the like may be recognized by the object itself and or markers associated with the objects . This is described in further detail below with respect to . In this way the object recognition application may communicate with other devices on the network to determine the object within the real time video stream.

The AR presentment application provides the mobile device with AR capabilities. In this way the AR presentment application may provide superimposed indicators related to the object in the real time video stream such that the user may have access to the targeted offers by selecting an indicator superimposed on the real time video stream. The AR presentment application may communicate with the other devices on the network to provide the user with indications associated with targeted offers for objects in the real time video display. The presentation and selection of indicators provided to the user via the AR presentment application is described in further detail below with respect to .

The chip may include the necessary circuitry to provide both the object recognition and or the AR functionality to the mobile device . Generally the chip will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s . The chip and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the chip may provide both the object recognition and the AR functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the chip as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the chip functionality may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the chip may be incorporated within the memory device and or the processing device . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the chip is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition and AR capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the chip functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processing device may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network such as but not limited to the real time video image server . In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processing device may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network . In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an application interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application the AR presentment application and or the chip . In some embodiments the application interface may further execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the server application . The application interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the application interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network . In some embodiments the external data is stored in the memory device of the real time video image server .

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processing device . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In some embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device .

The mobile device may also include a memory device operatively coupled to the processing device . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory device may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory device may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory device may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processing device to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory device may include such applications as an object recognition application an AR presentment application a web browser application an SMS application an email application etc.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within chip or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network such as but not limited to the real time video image server . For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the mobile device is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display utilizing the AR presentment application . The virtual image is generally a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the virtual image and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the virtual image may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the virtual image information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the virtual image .

In embodiments in which the virtual image provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the virtual image by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device via the AR presentment application . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the virtual image in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the virtual image utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the virtual image is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the virtual image onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application to merely identify an object just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the virtual image . The mobile device is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the virtual image may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The virtual image may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image . Additionally the virtual image may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image. In other embodiments the virtual image may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the virtual image may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the AR experience to his her needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the Marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the virtual object provided via the AR presentment application . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a virtual object associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other bases for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentment application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed virtual objects . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to design elements and design spaces. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate application and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server.

At block the user views a design space. In this way the user may capture real time images of the design space he she wishes to add furniture paint flooring or design. In some embodiments the user may capture real time images of design spaces that he she wishes to incorporate into his her design space. Once the user enters the design space or passes by a design space that the user likes the user may point his her mobile device at the design space as shown in block . In some embodiments the design space may also include design elements.

At block the user may capture images of design spaces and or design elements as part of a real time video stream. In some embodiments the user may point his her mobile device at a design space such as a living room bedroom patio kitchen etc. In other embodiments the user may point his her mobile device at a design element such as furniture pictures paint samples flooring etc. Once the user has captured images the system may receive information associated with the image . The image may be a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot an entirety of a video or any portion in between. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment. The image may further comprise of multiple single images compiled together.

Once the server application or mobile device receives the information associated with the image a comparison of the information from the image to identifying data or a directory stored in the memory device is performed as illustrated in block . The directory may first determine the landscape element or landscape area in the image from the information sent to the system. For example if the user is using real time video stream to identify his her living room the data from the image the user took may provide data to the server application or the mobile device such that the factors associated with the design space that have been previously analyzed may be known. Second the directory may include a database of information for design elements and design styles. The information for design elements includes data about each design element as it pertains to the factors for the design space . Therefore once the system determines the design element in the image or manually inputted by the user the directory may compare the factors of the user s design space to the data of that particular design element to determine a score for that design element. The score of the design element provides an indication on how close of a match the design element is in relation to the design space based on the factors. In this way the system may score each element to determine which element may be best situated for the user s design space. The database for design styles functions similar to the database for design elements. In this way the system may determine a score for how closely the design element matches the design style of the user .

At block factors are analyzed with respect to a design space to provide recommended design elements for the design space. The recommended design elements are presented in the design space virtually on the mobile device of the user . In this way the user may virtually view his her design space with design elements positioned in the space. Furthermore the system provides the user tools to be able to move the design elements within the design space. In this way the user may visualize different design possibilities for the space. Determining a recommended location for a design element within the design space depends on the design element properties and how those properties coincide with the design space. To determine if the properties of the design element is appropriate for a design space design space factors are analyzed. Design space factors allow the system to recommend a position for design elements. For example a large piece of furniture may only fit into a space if it is positioned a specific way. Therefore if the user wishes to have that piece of furniture in the space the design space factors recognize that the piece of furniture will only fit if positioned the specific way. Furthermore the design space factors may realize that a large design element may not even fit into the space. For example if the only entry into the space is through a small door way the design factors analyze this to determine if a large design element may even fit through the door way.

Design space factors include dimensions window and door locations outlet locations geographic and positional data other space features current design elements architectural features and d cor . Dimensions including the length width and height of the design space. This also takes into about variations in the walls such as bulk heads and the like. Furthermore dimensional data takes into account accessories built into the space. These accessories may include sinks toilets built in bookshelves counter tops and the like. For example if the user wishes to put a design element such as an oven into a space in a built in cabinet in the user s kitchen the system may determine the exact dimensions of the space for the oven such that the user may go to a store and be confident that the oven he she wishes to purchase will fit in the space provided. Dimensional data provides the system an indication of the type of design space the user is designing. For example if the system recognizes a toilet and a sink the system will recommend design elements that are associated with bathroom d cor. Dimensional data further provides the system with an indication as to what is behind the walls such as plumbing electrical and the like. In this way the dimensional data may provide an indication as to where not to drill or cut into walls or floors. Furthermore dimensional data may provide an indication of load bearing and non load bearing walls. In this way a contractor designer or user may know what walls may be relocated without effecting a load bearing wall. Finally dimensional data provides the system an indication as to what size design elements may be utilized in the space.

Window and door locations includes determining the positioning and size of each window and door in the design space. Determining the location of windows and doors aids the system in determining the positioning of design elements. For example the system will make sure to position larger design elements like bookshelves or sofas away from doors and windows so these design elements do not block the doors or windows. Furthermore determining the location of doors and windows may determine the type of design area the user is designing. For example if there is one door and several windows wherein the view from the windows is elevated the system may recognize that the user is designing an upstairs room such as a bedroom. The system may take this into account and recommend lighter weight or less bulky design elements so that carrying the design elements up stairs is not as challenging. The system may also recognize the size of the windows and doors. In this way the system may recognize that only a limited number of design elements may fit into the room through the door .

The system also analyzes the outlet locations in the design space. Outlets may be electrical outlets communication outlets television or cable outlets location of speaker wires switches lights and or the like. In this way the system may recognize outlets and recommend a position for design elements based on the position of outlets. For example if only one wall in a living room has a television outlet the system may recognize this and position a television on that wall. In another example if the user is designing an office space the system may recognize the positions of the outlets so that a desk with a computer is located near communication and electrical outlets. In some embodiments the system recognized lighting such that the ambient lighting in the design space is mimic in the virtual environment. In this way the user may view paint colors and the like to determine how the color looks in the space. The system may also allow for input of different lighting into the area and show the amount of light that the new lighting fixtures may provide to the room. The selected lighting may be based on the function for the room the location of the room and or other factors.

Geographic and positional data provide location and directional basis for the design space to the system. Geographic and positional data are determined by GPS and compass features of the mobile device. The geographic location of the space may aid in determining design styles types of fabrics etc. For example a space located near a beach may be more apt for cottage or beach designs. A space located in a geographic area in cold climes may be more apt for design elements imbuing a sense of warmth. Furthermore geographic location data may provide the system with recommendations for installing air conditioning units heat pumps etc. In this way depending on the location of the design space the user may be informed of the most appropriate air conditioner for his her space. Compass direction of the mobile device capturing the photo or image may be an aid in determining which direction the windows in the space face for indications of lighting shading and heat exposure to decorative elements. In this way the system may recognize the location of the user s design space and better predict the design elements the user may wish to incorporate into his her design space.

Other design space features allow the system to recognize current and past decorating styles available. Each individual user has a different design style. Some users may prefer decorating in a western theme while other users may prefer a more modern d cor. In this way the system may recognize different styles of the user or styles that the user may wish to incorporate into the design space when selecting recommended design elements and locations for those elements. Other design space features allows the system to recognize the unique styles of the user by including the style captured in the design space as well as recalling prior design spaces the user has decorated. This also includes recognition of the design elements that the user has purchased in the past. For example if a user has purchased stainless steel appliances in the past the system may recognize and suggest a stainless steel oven when the user is wishing to purchase a new oven. In this way the more the user uses the system for designing spaces the more the system retains and learns about the user and the user s likes with respect to d cor. Therefore the next time the user uses the system for designing a space the system may incorporate prior design styles of the user when recommending design elements.

Current design elements include design elements that are already in the design space. These elements may be pictures furniture drapes carpet rugs flooring etc. The current design elements provide the system with an indication as to the style the user typically likes thus the system may be able to match design elements with the current design element in the space.

Architectural features such as columns bay windows unique woodwork etc. provide the system with an indication as to the style of the design space such as if the space is colonial craftsman style Mediterranean or the like. Architectural features may allow the system to predict design elements that may cooperate with the overall style of the design space.

D cor such as color schemes patterns etc. or style such as contemporary arts and crafts colonial craftsman Mediterranean classic etc. provide further indication to the system as to the type of design elements that the user may wish to continue to have within the design space. D cor may also include designers television shows or the like that the user may wish to incorporate ideas or styles from. Furthermore the system may provide the user information on interior designers that may be able to help the user . The system may match the interior designer s style with the style of the user . D cor may also all for the system to select and recommend artwork or artists for the design space that the user may like based on his her current d cor.

The user or user s family may also be considered for in the factors analyzed. The user or user s family may require specific design elements to accommodate for elderly handicapped or children living within the user s space. For example the user may be an elderly person needing wheel chair ramps bathroom handles etc. for easier access. Therefore the design space may be directed to the needs of the user .

As further detailed in once the factors are analyzed for providing a recommended location for design element within a design space in block in decision block a determination is made as to whether the mobile device is still capturing video stream of the design space or design elements. If no video stream is being captured then no indicator is presented in block . If a video stream is still being captured then in block indicators are continuing to be presented with respect to the design elements within the design space. The indicators are associated with a design element the user may visualize in a virtual design space environment. In some embodiments the user may select the indicator. The selected indicator may allow the user to move and subsequently position the element in other locations within the design space. In yet other embodiments the user may obtain further detail about the location recommended for the design element by selecting the indicator. For example the user may select an indicator associated with a television. The system may then inform the user that the reason for recommending that location for the television was because of outlets specifically television outlets.

If the user selects the indicator in block the user may also have the option of moving the design element within the virtual design space. In this way the user may view the design element in different positions within the design space so that he she may make a determination of where he she likes the design element positioned. The system may also provide an indication of perceived problems with moving the design element to that location. For example if a user moves a chair from the recommended location to the corner of the room the system may indicate to the user that the chair may not be able to fully recline or swivel if it is positioned in the corner.

At block the user may capture images of the design elements in a retail store or business as part of a real time video stream. In some embodiments the user may point his her mobile device at a design element such as a sofa chair television table picture lamp flooring paint color etc. These design elements may in a retail store a business on television on the internet or the like. Similar to above with respect to once the user has captured the images the system may receive the information associated with the image . Once the server application or mobile device receives the information associated with the image a comparison of the information from the image to identifying data stored in the memory device is performed as illustrated in block . The directory may determine the design element in the image. If the system has recognized the design element previously it is stored in the memory device. As such if the design element is captured again data associated with the element will be easily obtained by accessing the directory. The directory may also include manually inputted information regarding design elements. Therefore if the user has inputted the design element into the system via an interface or the like the system will recognize the design element. In some embodiments the system may determine the design element without accessing the directory. The system may determine the size and shape of the design element without accessing the directory. Furthermore the system may be able to reach out to outside sources to determine details associated with the design element.

Manual inputs may be provided by the user through the use of an interface social networking site by other selection methods which may include but are not limited to sending a communication via email text voice message video message conference or like means of selecting an opt in function. The user may opt in to using an interface such as a selection interface such as illustrated in .

The design selection interface may be provided to the mobile device of the user by the server application . The user may access the interface in any means he she would typically access the system or the Internet. provides one embodiment of a selection interface that allows a user to opt in to provide manually inputted design elements for consideration within the user s design space. The real time video image server receives a request from a user to manually input design elements.

The user may provide design elements he she wishes to consider in his her design space within the select design element section . In the select design element section the user may find design elements that he she wishes to incorporate into his her design space. In the design element section the user may search for design elements within a category of design elements listed. The design element categories include wall and floor treatments furniture accessories and other .

If the user is searching for a design element the user may select a category from which to search for the design element in the design element section . Once the user has selected a category for example the wall and floor treatment the user may select the method of searching from the find design element section . The methods of searching for a design element include the Internet a captured image or from a retail store . If the user selects the Internet the user is directed to a search engine to search for the design element. For example if the user is looking for a specific paint color to virtually view on the user s design space the user may select the wall and floor treatment section then search the Internet for the specific color the user wants to visualize. The user may then add the color to his her directory by selecting the add button. Once the user has added the color to the directory he she may apply the color to his her design space and virtually view the color in his her space. In this way the user may determine if the color is the one he she would like to paint the walls of his her space with prior to any paint being applied to the walls of the space.

If the user has previously captured an image of a design element from one of the categories the user may select the captured image section and up load the image. In this way the system may incorporate that design element into the design space of the user . The capturing of an image may have occurred using the mobile device a computer camera or the like.

The user may also search retailers for design items in section . Retailers may include a retail store a business a website of a retailer or business designer line celebrity line or the like. For example a user may be in a retail store that carries design elements. The user may see a design element that he she would like to include in his her design space. Therefore the user may capture the design element and store it in the directory for positioning in his her design space.

Once the user has found the design elements desired the user may add the design elements to a directory for the system to incorporate the design elements into the user s design space. In some embodiments the system is able to position the element in the user s design space immediately. For example if the user captures an image of a design element at a retail store the system may instantly position the element within the user s design space. In this way the user may have a virtual image of his her design space with the design element so that the user may decide if he she wishes to purchase that design element at the retailer.

Adding design elements from the directory may be done by the user in the design space section of the selection interface . In the design space section the user may select the design space to add the element to in section . For example a user may have multiple design spaces he she is designing. In this instance the user may be an interior designer and have several clients in which he she is currently designing rooms for. In this way the user may select which design space he she would like to add a design element to in section . In section the user in this example has three design spaces to select from space space and space . Once the user has selected a design space to include the design element in the user may select the location of the design element in section . In this way the user may move the design element to the location within the design space that he she would like the design element to be positioned. The system will provide a recommended location to the user for the design element but the user may position the element any location he she desires. In this way the user may virtually view his her design space with the design element in it. For example the user may visualize the design space with the design element in it on the display of the mobile device . The user would not have to purchase the design element and bring it to the design space to determine if the design element is what the user wants for the space instead the user may virtually view the design space with the design element. In another embodiment the user may capture the virtual design space and the system may communicate the design space to friends and or family members of the user through social networks picture message emailing text messaging or the like. In this way friends or family members of the user may vote on or comment about whether they like or dislike the user s design choices.

After the user has selected the design element and positioned the design element in the desired location within the design space the user may purchase the design element in section . If the user found the design element online at a retail store in a magazine in a showroom or the like the system will find the design element or a similar design element and provide a link for the user to purchase the design element. The system may directly connect with the user s financial institution to provide an easy payment method for the user . Once the user has completed using the selection interface the user may select the finished button so that the system may store the manual inputs from the user .

Using the selection interface or other means the user may provide manually inputted design elements that the user may wish to include in to his her design space. The user may add these design elements at any time convenient to the user . Design elements may also be provided by the user through social networks the user may subscribe to.

Returning to after the system has received a captured image of a design element or the user has provided manual input factors of the design space are analyzed to determine a recommended location of the design elements in block . Once the factors are analyzed for providing a recommended design element into a design space in block in decision block a determination is made as to whether the mobile device is still capturing video stream of the design elements. If no video stream is being captured then no indicator is presented in block . If a video stream is still being captured then in block indicators are continuing to be presented with respect to the design elements. The indicators are associated with a design element the user may visualize in a virtual design space environment. In some embodiments the user may select the indicator. The selected indicator may allow the user to obtain further detail about the design element. Further details about the design element may include dimensions of the element specifications associated with the element color options for the element or other similar elements that would fit in the space.

If the user selects the indicator in block the user may have the option of purchasing the design element in block . The indicator may provide the user with the best price of the design element. For example the user may be at a retail store but the indicator may provide the user with an offer to purchase the same design element for a discounted rate as compared to the retail store. Therefore the user may elect to purchase the design element from the indicator instead of the retail store. Furthermore the system may provide the user with a direct link to the user s financial institution so that if the user chooses to purchase the design element the user may do so without communicating a payment method.

In some embodiments if the user selects the indicator in block the system may recommend the user not to purchase the design element. The system may analyze the design element selected compared to the design space of the user and determine that the design element does not match or fit into the design space. Therefore the system may recommend the user not purchase the design element. If this occurs the system may provide the user with other alternative design elements that are similar to the selected design element that may match the user s design area.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system a machine a device a computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business process a computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the functions by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical infrared electromagnetic and or semiconductor system apparatus and or device. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

It will also be understood that one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

It will further be understood that some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of systems methods and or computer program products. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

It will also be understood that the one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as user financial behavior history user purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional patent applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

