---

title: Online address book with multi-use input bar and profile bookmarking
abstract: An online address book is configured to include a multi-user input bar to receive search items intended to match contacts existing in a user's contact list. If a search term does not match any entry in the current contact list the search is extended by the multi-user input bar to include further candidate contacts. Candidate contacts are acquired through social profiles available from a set of networking sites linked-to over the Internet. A candidate contact that does match the search term is added to the contact list with a public profile whose contents are populated with contact data acquired from social profiles available through the networking sites. This practice of profile bookmarking may be applied iteratively across candidate contacts from various networking sites to build an extensive public profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984049&OS=08984049&RS=08984049
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 08984049
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120201
---
This patent document pertains generally to data processing and more particularly but not by way of limitation to an online address book with multi use input bar and profile bookmarking.

The widespread connectivity provided by the Internet makes it the ideal source of connections for a user desiring to develop networking contacts. Networking is highly desirable by persons wanting to develop more extensive connections with contacts for career advancement pursuit of job possibilities and simply to have persons to share common interests with. A user may take advantage of the broad spectrum of communication possibilities over the Internet to search for connections with networking sites hosting news information blogs job possibilities and professional networking possibilities to name just a few of the likely connections possible through the Internet.

In the course of pursuing these communication possibilities the user may encounter a wide range and large number of contacts. Because of the wide variety of connections available on the Internet the user may often find that a candidate contact encountered during pursuit of their communication connections is not a member of their network. Consequently the user may not have immediate ways to connect with a prospective contact let alone have enough background information on the candidate contact to determine whether they would make a good addition to their network. A contact may have posted an interesting blog comment at a professional networking site and when encountered by the user they may wonder if this person would make a good candidate contact for including him communications with other contacts in their personal network. Without further profile information being available for the contact the user may not be able to ascertain any corroborating interests or general information that would help in determining the user s interest in considering them a candidate contact and perhaps inviting the person to further communication within their network.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

In the course of pursuing Internet communication connections the user of an online address book with profile bookmarking capabilities may be able to bookmark the social profiles of communication connections with Internet users not already in the contact list of their online address book and add a selected social profile corresponding to a newly encountered contact to their address book. The user may also gain further profile information about the candidate contact from further networking sites and have the option of including the associated further social profile information available from these sites.

From snippets of a candidate contact s profile information gained during Internet navigation an online address book user may be interested in reviewing further information about the candidate contact. The user may generally sense that further information from the candidate contact s profile alluded to in part by the encountered snippet would be of further interest to them in deciding whether to pursue including the candidate contact in their network and contact list. Additionally a user may desire having further profile information available from further networking sites that the candidate contact may be affiliated with.

Initial search entries may reveal matches to existing contacts in the user s contact list within the online address book . The initial search terms entered reveal the broadest match to the user s existing contacts. Each successive character added further refines the match of existing contacts. As a character is entered as part of an initial search term existing contacts in the user s contact list that match the search term are displayed in a drop down menu . For example entering the letter J may present a snippet of the profile of existing contacts whose name begins with the letter J. Each existing contact determined to match the search term is presented in the drop down menu with a snippet of profile information. The snippet of profile information may include each respective contact s profile portrait.

Each existing contact matched is displayed with a snippet of their existing profile portrait along with a user selectable link to navigate directly to their existing profile entry within the online address book . Contacts matching the search term up to a given point of characters entered may be displayed in a drop down menu format beneath the multi use input bar . As further characters are added to the search term being entered in the multi use input bar fewer existing contacts may match and the number of entries of existing contacts in the drop down menu will correspondingly become fewer.

After entry of a search term in the multi use input bar that is refined beyond any match to the user s existing contacts candidate contacts may be presented and organized according to the networking sites they are found on during the search. For example candidate contacts may be presented according to a professional networking site a social networking site and a short messaging site . The candidate contacts may be presented with a user selectable link to their social profile as well as a create link . When selected the create link creates a new public profile within the contact list of the user s online address book . This type of new profile creation may be referred to as bookmarking social profiles or profile bookmarking. Either term refers to the building of a contact record based on public profile information.

By way of further example when the first create link corresponding to a social networking site is selected for creation of the public profile of a contact a snippet of their social profile from the social networking site is presented. Along with the snippet of the social network social profile a social network connection link is also presented. The social network connection link initiates a connection to the contact at the social networking site .

The user may recognize that a further candidate contact may correspond with the candidate contact from the social networking site chosen by selection of the selected create link . The user may continue the profile bookmarking process by selection of a profile bookmarking link corresponding with the further candidate contact .

A merged set of associated social profile information available from the social networking site and the short messaging site networking site is presented in the new public profile . Further candidate contacts may be presented according to the search of the remaining professional networking site . Along with the snippet of the social profile and the social network connection link a snippet of a short message social profile and a short message network connection link are presented as well. In addition to literally providing selection links these social profile snippets and network connection links provide an indication of the social profiles that have been merged into the new public profile being displayed.

After being selected from the bookmark bar of the browser and prior to providing the profile bookmarking pop up window the bookmarklet determines the identity of the present candidate contact by either parsing a remainder of a user identifier path name locating a universal locator link in a public contact profile and acquiring the identity by using an application programming interface API or determining a contact identifier contained within a body of the markup language representation. The identity location technique may be determined according to the representation of the candidate contact at the networking site.

The bookmarklet may be installed in the bookmark bar of the browser by the user s first selecting an applications tab . From amongst a listing of possible applications not shown a bookmarklet installation webpage may be presented which includes a bookmarklet installation link. By click dragging the bookmarklet installation link to the bookmark bar of the browser the bookmarklet may be completely installed. In so doing the bookmarklet is immediately available for profile bookmarking of any candidate contact navigated to as in the networking sites described above for example.

Profile bookmarking may typically have available the name company name and work history of a candidate contact from public profile information. Profile bookmarking can be applied in successive iterations to several different public profiles at various networking sites. In this way profile bookmarking may build a public profile with social networking data without being connected e.g. being friends or following with the candidate contact. In fact after selection the candidate contact may become a public contact within the contact list presented in the online address book of the user. A public contact may be presented within a contact list presented in the online address book along with the users existing contact records. The new public contact may have a contact record including a grayed out graphical icon or symbolic logo corresponding to networking sites that the public profile information has been acquired from.

Classically a user would have to build all of the data and links to a candidate contact themselves. Through the use of profile bookmarking all of the work of searching locating retrieving and presenting user selectable links for bookmarking are done automatically for the user and thus saves the user from a considerable amount of effort. By using profile bookmarking the user is able to view a contact during the course of navigating the Internet and on noting a contact that the user feels the might be interested in tracking but not necessarily interested in connecting to yet can build a profile and gather a significant amount of publicly shared information as well as subscribe to publicly shared status updates for the contact. In this way the user can become familiar with a candidate contact before committing to friend them or follow them and commit their own personal information to an otherwise unknown contact. This ability in developing a public contact through profile bookmarking is especially beneficial when the user may be about to meet the candidate contact in an upcoming business meeting or social encounter.

A linking module may be configured to link to a networking site according to a selection indication received from a user device. The user may establish the links to the networking sites at the time of initial setup of the online address book. A mapping module is configured to map a set of contact descriptors corresponding to a marked contact indicator into a contact record to be associated with the contact. The set of contact descriptors may be taken from the public profile at the networking site corresponding to the contact. A multi use input bar module is configured to accept contact descriptors received from the user device and initiate searches for a candidate contact. A bookmarklet module is configured to be installed in a bookmark bar of a network browser and receive a selection indication associated with the contact indicator. All of the profile bookmarking modules are communicatively coupled to one another through a module system bus .

Subsequent to the transmitting at least a portion of a further contact profile and a marking link the method goes on with receiving a indication of selection of the further contact indicator according to the marking link and the method continues by searching to locate an identifier from within a markup language representation the identifier corresponding to one of a remainder of a user identifier path name universal locator link in a public contact profile and a contact identifier contained within a body of the markup language representation. Responsive to the searching to locate an identifier the method continues with finding an identifier of the further contact indicator and prior to the transmitting at least a portion of a contact profile including a marking link the method concludes with determining the contact list does not include the further contact indicator.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Finally boundaries between various components operations and data stores may be somewhat arbitrary and particular operations may be illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the invention s . In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the invention s .

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. Furthermore all publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

