---

title: III-Nitride semiconductor structures with strain absorbing interlayer transition modules
abstract: There are disclosed herein various implementations of semiconductor structures including III-Nitride interlayer modules. One exemplary implementation comprises a substrate and a first transition body over the substrate. The first transition body has a first lattice parameter at a first surface and a second lattice parameter at a second surface opposite the first surface. The exemplary implementation further comprises a second transition body, such as a transition module, having a smaller lattice parameter at a lower surface overlying the second surface of the first transition body and a larger lattice parameter at an upper surface of the second transition body, as well as a III-Nitride semiconductor layer over the second transition body. The second transition body may consist of two or more transition modules, and each transition module may include two or more interlayers. The first and second transition bodies reduce strain for the semiconductor structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08957454&OS=08957454&RS=08957454
owner: International Rectifier Corporation
number: 08957454
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 449 046 entitled III Nitride Material Interlayer Structures filed on Mar. 3 2011 which is hereby incorporated fully by reference into the present application.

In addition each of the following U.S. patent documents is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present application 

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AR0000016 awarded by Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy ARPA E . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

As used herein the phrase III Nitride material or III Nitride refers to a compound semiconductor that includes nitrogen and at least one group III element including aluminum Al gallium Ga indium In and boron B and including but not limited to any of its alloys such as aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN indium gallium nitride InGaN aluminum indium gallium nitride AlInGaN gallium arsenide phosphide nitride GaAsPN aluminum indium gallium arsenide phosphide nitride AlInGaAsPN for example. III Nitride material also refers generally to any polarity including but not limited to Ga polar N polar semi polar or non polar crystal orientations. A III Nitride material may also include either the Wurtzitic Zineblende or mixed polytypes and may include single crystal monocrystalline polycrystalline or amorphous structures.

III Nitride materials are semiconductor compounds that have relatively wide direct bandgaps and can have strong piezoelectric polarizations which can enable high breakdown fields high saturation velocities and the creation of two dimensional electron gases 2DEGs . As a result III Nitride materials are used in many microelectronic applications as field effect transistors FETs high electron mobility transistors HEMTs and diodes.

In many commercial applications large area low cost and readily available substrates are needed for the deposition and crystal growth of III Nitride materials thin films and resulting device structures. Consequently many III Nitride materials are grown on non III Nitride substrates using one of several different thin film deposition techniques. However III Nitride materials have a different lattice constant parameter than most commonly used non III Nitride substrate materials. In some cases this lattice parameter difference or lattice mismatch can be relatively large and can lead to the formation of crystal defects in the III Nitride material layers that may impair the performance of devices formed using the III Nitride material layers. While the III Nitride materials are being epitaxially deposited the lattice parameter mismatch of the III Nitride structure interlayers can also build stress within the III Nitride substrate composite structure that may cause macroscopic deformation of the composite structure at growth temperatures. The stress and consequential deformation may tend to build as the thickness of the III Nitrides layers increase and may reach deformation limits that. if exceeded. could result in excessive warp bow and plastic deformation or slip of the composite structure. If this occurs during growth of the III Nitride the resulting deformation may result in physical separation of the composite structure from the growth platform. This can lead to mechanical instability of the composite structure within the deposition chambers as well as loss of uniform heating across the composite structure resulting in thickness and compositional non uniformity for additional III Nitride interlayer growth. The impact is a detrimental loss to fabricated device yields across the wafer and less than optimal designed device performance.

The inherent lattice parameter mismatches associated strain on the composite structure and consequential deformation during growth thus presents limitations to the thickness that can be achieved for the growth of III Nitride materials in conventional structures. Such limitations may prevent the realization of III Nitride device structures requiring relatively thick material stacks to achieve performance specifications such as those required by high voltage breakdown HEMTs for example.

Additionally differences in the material lattice thermal coefficients of expansion amongst and between the III Nitride materials and the substrate can result in the development of significant stress during cool down from relatively high growth temperatures to room temperature that can also lead to large macroscopic deformation in terms of wafer warp and bow epi structure cracking as well as substrate plastic deformation and dislocation propagation e.g. slip of the resulting material substrate structure. Such deformation can be large enough so as to make semiconductor device fabrication impracticable.

The present disclosure is directed to III Nitride semiconductor structures with strain absorbing interlayer transition modules substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures and as set forth more completely in the claims.

The following description contains specific information pertaining to implementations in the present disclosure. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present disclosure may be implemented in a manner different from that specifically discussed herein. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary implementations. Unless noted otherwise like or corresponding elements among the figures may be indicated by like or corresponding reference numerals. Moreover the drawings and illustrations in the present application are generally not to scale and are not intended to correspond to actual relative dimensions.

III Nitride materials include for example gallium nitride GaN and its alloys such as aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN indium gallium nitride InGaN and aluminum indium gallium nitride AlInGaN . These materials are semiconductor compounds that have a relatively wide direct bandgap and can have strong piezoelectric polarizations enabling high breakdown fields high saturation velocities and the creation of two dimensional electron gases 2DEGs . As a result and as noted above III Nitride materials such as GaN are used in many microelectronic applications as field effect transistors FETs high electron mobility transistors HEMTs and diodes.

As further noted above in many of these applications large area low cost and readily available substrates are needed for the deposition and crystal growth of III Nitride materials thin films and resulting device structures. However differences in the properties between III Nitride materials and non III Nitride substrates can lead to difficulties in growing layers suitable for many applications.

For example GaN has a different thermal expansion coefficient e.g. thermal expansion rate than many non III Nitride substrate materials such as silicon carbide and silicon. This difference in thermal expansion can lead to large scale distortion of the shape of the composite structure epitaxial layers or epi layers and substrate resulting in excessive warp bow and or cracking of III Nitride layers deposited on such non III Nitride substrates after completion of III Nitride deposition and cooling of the structure from growth temperature down to room temperature and thereby making further device fabrication impracticable. The cracking phenomena can prevent GaN materials from being suitable for use in many applications. Moreover excessive warp and bow can prevent the subsequent standard processing of the wafers required for device fabrication singulation and packaging e.g. lithography etch metal deposition dicing and so forth .

In addition III Nitride materials are characterized by lattice parameters also referred to as lattice constants in the art that differ from those of commonly used non III Nitride substrate materials. In some cases the lattice parameter differences can be relatively large lattice parameter difference hereinafter referred to as lattice mismatch . Lattice mismatch typically leads to the formation of crystal defects in GaN or other III Nitride material layers deposited on non III Nitride substrates. The presence of such defects can impair the performance of devices formed using the III Nitride material layers. In extreme cases the strain generated in the epi layers due to the lattice mismatch amongst and between the III Nitride layers and substrate can cause macroscopic deformation during growth as well. This can occur during elevated temperatures required for epitaxy and is independent of the differences in thermal expansion coefficients. This also can lead to warp and bow of the composite structure as well as plastic deformation and defect propagation in the epi and or substrate e.g. slip. Any macroscopic deformation of the composite structure during growth can lead to poor uniformity in thickness and composition of the resulting epi layers that may be detrimental to high yielding device fabrication and performance.

Some conventional techniques have been developed to address crack and defect formation as well as wafer bowing in III Nitride materials deposited on non III nitride substrates through use of one or more buffer layers and the use of transition layers prior to the deposition of the III Nitride material on the underlying transition and buffer layers. An example of such a conventional technique is shown as semiconductor structure in . According to conventional semiconductor structure III Nitride graded transition body is formed over substrate . III Nitride layer is then formed over graded transition body . Graded transition body is typically formed of AlGaN where the gallium content is varied from a relative lower concentration at first surface to a relative higher concentration at second surface . Alternatively the graded transition body is typically graded from a relative small lattice parameter at first surface to a relative larger lattice parameter at second surface . It is noted that although shown as a single layer in graded transition body may include one or more layers or interlayers. However the conventional approach depicted in has not fully overcome the challenges associated with growing III Nitride bodies on non III Nitride substrates especially in the case of growing thick epitaxial layers e.g. greater than 2 3 microns 2 3 m . Common practices used in the field typically employ grading of the III Nitride composition or lattice parameters graded in one direction only of the transition layers and interlayers e.g. from a high Al concentration to a low Al concentration or from a low Ga concentration to a high Ga concentration or from a small lattice parameter to a large lattice parameter . By using this type of grading scheme the resulting strain on the composite structure tends to drive the deformation in one direction. However this has had only limited success in managing deformation of thinner layers typically less than 2 m as the grading schemes used do not counter the deformation during growth but only try to limit the magnitude of the deformation. As a result in order not to exceed deformation limits the allowable III Nitride layer net thickness is limited. Therefore there continues to be a need for solutions providing large diameter wafers capable of supporting thicker III Nitride layers with little or no cracking and with warp and bow levels within acceptable limits. Ideally a solution is needed which would counter the deformation by employing different grading schemes during growth and allow for the deposition of III Nitride structures with arbitrary thicknesses.

The present application is directed to semiconductor structures including one or more III Nitride interlayer modules formed over a III Nitride transition body scheme. The modular interlayer approach is adopted in order to reduce strain in the III Nitride epi layers that can result from differences in thermal expansion rates between the III Nitride material and a non III Nitride e.g. silicon substrate as well as reducing strain in the epi layers and substrate associated with the lattice mismatch between each of the epi layers and the substrate which can occur during epi layer formation at elevated growth temperatures. This reduction of strain can enable use of large diameter wafers capable of supporting thicker III Nitride layers with little or no cracking and with warp and bow levels within acceptable limits. It can also allow for the formation of thicker III Nitride layers during III Nitride epi layer growth without exceeding deformation limits at elevated growth temperatures. The initiation of each modular interlayer counters the deformation of the composite structure during growth and allows for continuation of growth without exceeding an approaching deformation limit. As a result the modular interlayer approach can be used to scale the epi structure to an arbitrary thickness by repeating the formation of the module as many times as needed to achieve a desired total thickness and enables formation of electronic devices which advantageously exhibit low leakage low dynamic Rdson high punch through voltage lateral breakdown voltage and progressively higher vertical breakdown capability.

It is noted that although SiNx GaN AlN and AlGaN materials will be specifically referenced in the present description different materials can be used to provide the advantages described above. Furthermore while four exemplary nitride based materials are described herein e.g. SiNx GaN AlN and AlGaN it will be appreciated that additional materials can be included in a semiconductor structure according to the present concepts.

Referring to a cross sectional view of semiconductor structure is shown accord to one implementation of the present inventive principles. As shown in semiconductor structure includes substrate which may be a non III Nitride substrate first transition body second transition body and III Nitride layer . Also depicted in are first surface and second surface of first transition body and upper surface of second transition body .

Substrate may be resistive or conductive and may be formed using materials such as group IV materials e.g. Si SiC Ge SiGe and the like III Nitride materials sapphire or other suitable material. Substrate may be single crystal or polycrystalline or may be formed as a composite substrate. Moreover as used in the present application silicon substrate refers to any substrate that includes a silicon surface. Examples of suitable silicon substrates include substrates that are formed substantially entirely of silicon e.g. bulk silicon wafers silicon on insulator SOI substrates silicon on sapphire substrates SOS and SIMOX substrates among others. Suitable silicon substrates also include composite substrates that have a silicon wafer bonded to another material such as diamond AlN or other polycrystalline materials.

In some implementations silicon substrates having different crystallographic orientations may be used. In some cases for example silicon substrates may be preferred for substrate . In other cases silicon or substrates may be preferred for substrate . In certain other implementations substrate may be a silicon substrate having various device layers homojunctions heterojunctions or circuit layers embedded therein or formed on the front side or back side of substrate . Substrate may be a semi spec standard thickness silicon substrate or may be a thicker or in some implementations a thinner than semi spec standards substrate. In some implementations substrate may have a diameter of less than approximately one hundred millimeters 100 mm for example. In other implementations substrate may have a diameter between approximately 100 mm and approximately 150 mm and in other implementations substrate may have a diameter of approximately 150 mm to approximately 200 mm or larger. In yet other implementations substrate may include a textured surface or may have a non planer surface.

First transition body may be a graded transition layer or a transition body including interlayers. In certain implementations it may be desirable for first transition body to have a low gallium concentration at first surface and a higher gallium concentration at second surface . Alternatively it may be desirable for first transition body to have a smaller lattice parameter at first surface and a larger lattice parameter at second surface . In one implementation first transition body may be formed of a single layer of AlGaN for example. However as will be described in greater detail below in certain other implementations first transition body may include a plurality of interlayers. Second transition body is situated over first transition body and may be formed of a graded III Nitride transition module with more than one interlayer for example as will also be described in greater detail below. III Nitride layer may be implemented as buffer layer for example and may be formed of an suitable III Nitride material such as GaN or AlGaN for instance.

Referring now to a cross sectional view of semiconductor structure A is shown according to another implementation. As shown in semiconductor structure A includes substrate layer intermediate body first transition body second transition body III Nitride buffer layer and device layer . As further shown in according to the example implementation of semiconductor structure A first transition body may be a graded transition body including interlayers and and second transition body may be a transition module formed as interlayers and . First transition body and second transition body correspond respectively to first transition body and second transition body in and may share any of the characteristics attributed to those corresponding features above. Also depicted in are first surface and second surface of first transition body and upper surface of second transition body .

As shown in layer can be formed over substrate . It is noted that when a layer is referred to as being on over or overlying another layer body or substrate it can be directly on the layer body or substrate or an intervening layer or layers may also be present. A layer that is directly on another layer body or substrate means that no intervening layer is present. It is further noted that when a layer is referred to as being on over or overlying another layer body or substrate it may cover the entire layer body or substrate or a portion of the layer body or substrate.

In some implementations layer is formed over substrate and may be a strain absorbing layer such as a silicon nitride based strain absorbing layer for example. When implemented as a strain absorbing layer layer may help to absorb strain that arises due to lattice mismatch between the crystal structure of substrate and the crystal structure of intermediate body . In the absence of strain absorbing layer for example this lattice mismatch induced strain is typically accommodated by the generation of misfit dislocations in intermediate body at its interface with substrate . Thus by providing an alternative mechanism for accommodating strain the presence of layer may reduce the generation of misfit dislocations. Moreover when implemented as a strain absorbing layer layer can help absorb strain that arises due to differences in the thermal expansion rate of substrate as compared to the thermal expansion rate of intermediate body and or the overlying material stack including first transition body second transition body III Nitride buffer layer and device layer .

In some implementations layer may be formed of a silicon nitride based material. As used herein the phrase silicon nitride based material refers to a compound that includes silicon and at least nitrogen. A silicon nitride based material may take on the specific stoichiometric form of SiNor of any number of stoichiometric forms described as SiN or may be the non stoichiometric form generally described as SiN.

It is noted that in certain other implementations such as when a III Nitride substrate is used as substrate it may not be desirable to form layer .

As shown in intermediate body may be formed over layer . In certain implementations intermediate body may be a III Nitride layer. In certain implementations intermediate body is used as a nucleation layer for subsequent growth of overlying III Nitride layers or bodies. It may be preferred that intermediate body be substantially an AlN layer for example. Use of an AlN layer as intermediate body may be advantageous for establishing a stable hexagonal or wurtzitic crystal polytype upon which to deposit overlying hexagonal or wurtzitic III Nitride materials and device structures. In other implementations an AlN intermediate layer may be preferred for intermediate body so as provide a dielectric or electrically insulating layer from substrate which may be beneficial for the isolation and integration of III Nitride based devices and silicon based devices on a common substrate. It is noted that in some implementations intermediate body may be formed of two or more layers.

As further shown in first transition body may be formed over intermediate body . In some implementations first transition body is a first III Nitride graded transition body including two or more interlayers. In certain implementations it may be desirable for first transition body to have a lower gallium concentration at first surface and a higher gallium concentration at second surface . Alternatively it may be desirable for first transition body to have a smaller lattice parameter at first surface and a larger lattice parameter at second surface . In one implementation first transition body may be formed of a single layer of AlGaN for example. However as shown by semiconductor structure A in certain other implementations first transition body may include a plurality of interlayers such as interlayer and interlayer . It may be advantageous for interlayer to have a smaller lattice parameter than interlayer . Moreover it may be advantageous for interlayer to have a higher aluminum concentration than interlayer . For example it may be desirable for interlayer to be formed of AlGaN where x 30 . It may also be desirable for interlayer to be formed of AlGaN where y

In certain other implementations it may be desirable for first transition body to have a high gallium concentration at first surface and a low gallium concentration at second surface . Alternatively it may be desirable for first transition body to have a larger lattice parameter at first surface and a smaller lattice parameter at second surface . In other implementations first transition body may include additional interlayers such as through repetition of interlayers and or through including additional interlayers with different compositions than interlayers or including interlayers with different grading schemes than those of interlayers or or including interlayers having the same composition lattice parameter or grading schemes but which may additionally include an impurity or dopant within one some or all of the interlayers.

Referring now to second transition body second transition body may be formed over first transition body . In some implementations second transition body may be a III Nitride body forming a single layer. Alternatively second transition body may be formed as a transition module including two or more interlayers such as III Nitride interlayers for example as shown in . In certain implementations it may be desirable for second transition body to have a low gallium concentration or smaller lattice parameter at a lower surface overlying second surface of first transition body and a high gallium concentration or larger lattice parameter at upper surface . Second transition body may be formed of AlGaN for example and have a higher aluminum concentration at the lower surface overlying second surface of first transition body and a lower aluminum concentration at upper surface . Alternatively second transition body may be formed of AlInGaN for example and have a smaller lattice constant at the lower surface overlying second surface of first transition body and a larger lattice constant at upper surface . In certain other implementations second transition body may be formed of a graded transition and thus may be a graded III Nitride transition body for example or may include superlattice structures.

In implementations in which second transition body includes multiple interlayers or superlattice structures it may be advantageous for second transition body to be formed of three AlGaN interlayers as shown by interlayers and . It may also be advantageous for interlayer to have a high aluminum content. In addition or alternatively it may also be advantageous that interlayer have substantially no gallium content or be formed substantially entirely of AlN. It may also be desirable for the thickness of interlayer to be thinner than layers and . In certain implementations it may be advantageous for the thickness of interlayer to be thinner than that of layer which may be thinner than interlayer . It may also be advantageous for interlayer to be less than 10 nanometers 10 nm thick and in some cases less than 5 nm thick.

It may also be advantageous for second transition body to be formed of three AlInGaN interlayers. As such it may be advantageous for interlayer to have a smaller lattice constant than the lattice constant of interlayers and . In certain implementations it may be advantageous for the lattice parameter of interlayer to be smaller than the lattice parameter of interlayer may be smaller than the lattice parameter of interlayer

According to the present implementation interlayer is formed over interlayer and may be formed of AlGaN. For example interlayer may be formed of AlGaN where 0.90 z 0.25. However in other implementations the value z may be approximately 0.35 e.g. z 0.35 .

Interlayer may be formed over interlayers and and may be formed of AlGaN. In certain implementations for example interlayer may be formed directly on interlayer or directly on interlayer . In other implementations interlayer has a lower concentration of aluminum and is formed of AlGaN where 0.25 w 0.04. However in other implementations the value w may be approximately 0.06 e.g. w 0.06 .

In some implementations one or more of interlayers and may each be of a constant composition or may each be graded in composition. In some other implementations the III Nitride alloy composition of two or more superlattice interlayers may be the same but they may be differentiated by containing different dopants or impurities or be formed using different deposition conditions e.g. temperature pressure nitrogen or hydrogen atmospheres .

The specific details of the compositions grading and thickness of first and second transition bodies and may depend on the selection of substrate for example as well as on the characteristics of III Nitride buffer layer and device layer formed over first and second transition bodies and . Substrate considerations may include for example surface finish thickness and wafer diameter. Buffer and device layer considerations may include for example III Nitride buffer layer composition and thickness as well as the composition and thickness of the active or channel layer spacer layers barrier layers and any additional device layers all referred collectively in as device layer . Additional considerations include breakdown voltage dynamic Rdson current collapse or other transient phenomena related to field induced charge state changes causing temporal variation in the electron density of the 2DEG and leakage properties of devices fabricated in device layer as well as the total thickness of the III Nitride material stack and any wafer crack bow warp or deformation constraints. For example for low or medium voltage power FETs which may be defined respectively as having breakdown voltage Vbd 

Referring to a schematic of semiconductor structure A is shown superimposed below a corresponding schematic of potential plot B of the deformation of the composite structure at various times during the formation of semiconductor structure A. Actual measurement of the deformation may vary greatly in both feature and relative magnitude and is meant only to guide the current discussion. The deformation may be associated with allowable warp or bow of the composite structure while the structure is at elevated temperature and are typically caused by lattice constant difference and thicknesses of the various interlayers transition bodies and substrate. At elevated temperature during growth if the deformation limit is exceeded the structure may warp or bow and result in loss of uniformity of temperature across the structure. This in turn may lead to non uniformities in both the continued deposition of uniform layer thickness and or uniform layer alloy composition both capable of adversely affecting device performance and device fabrication yield. In extreme cases the structure may macroscopically deform so severely that the epi layers may crack the substrate and or epi layers may plastically deform e.g. crystal slip may occur the wafer may break or may move out of position in the crystal growth chamber.

In other examples the deformation targets may refer to predetermined levels of deformation which may not be detrimental at the elevated growth temperatures but may lead to detrimental deformation upon cooling from the elevated temperatures required for epitaxy down to room temperature after formation of the structure and are caused by the differences in thermal coefficients of expansion. In the ideal case the growth is terminated with some level of deformation at high temperature but upon cooling the entire structure relaxes to a lower deformation level or near stress free state at room temperature.

Again referring to in region I of potential plot B as layer intermediate body and first transition body are formed they add stress to the composite structure which results in the deformation of the composite structure. As growth continues the deformation will approach the critical deformation limit and if the growth were allowed to continue unabated the structure would eventually exceed a critical deformation limit and result in excessive warp bow slip or even cracking of the structure. To prevent exceeding the critical deformation limit second transition body is initiated in region II subjecting the structure to an opposing stress state. In the current example interlayer counters the stress state however not so much that it may also cause exceeding a deformation limit at the other extreme. Once the stress state is adequately modified interlayers and are formed within region III as are buffer layer and device layer . The formation of semiconductor structure A can then be terminated at substantially the optimal final deformation state without exceeding the critical deformation limit and semiconductor structure A is cooled down to room temperature in region IV. Upon cooling the final deformation determined by the resultant sum of the stresses due to mismatches in thermal expansion of the substrate and the final as grown composite structure is substantially minimized.

In implementations in which a thicker III Nitride material stack is desired or perhaps a breakdown voltage of approximately 300V or greater is needed it may be advantageous to form a structure which includes second transition body formed from a series of repeated interlayers or additional transition modules as shown and described in greater detail below by reference to . In other implementations second transition body may include additional interlayers having compositions other than those characterizing interlayers or . That is to say in addition to interlayers and second transition body may include more interlayers with different grading schemes than those used to implement interlayers or . Alternatively in addition to interlayers and second transition body may include other interlayers having substantially the same composition lattice parameter or grading schemes as interlayers and but may include an impurity or dopant within the additional interlayers or have the same compositions but be deposited under different growth conditions for example.

Referring back to III Nitride buffer layer may be formed over first and second transition bodies and . III Nitride buffer layer may be a GaN or AlGaN buffer layer for example. In some implementations III Nitride buffer layer is formed of AlGaN where v 0.10 or 0.08. In some implementations III Nitride buffer layer may be intentionally doped unintentionally doped or undoped. In certain other implementations III Nitride buffer layer may be undoped and exhibit a low carbon concentration of less than approximately 5E17 cm. In certain other implementations III Nitride buffer layer may exhibit a graded impurity concentration. Second transition body enables formation of III Nitride buffer layer to thicknesses with acceptable levels of deformation exceeding thicknesses that would be achievable without the addition of second transition body in composite semiconductor structure A. In some implementations III Nitride buffer layer may be more than approximately 1 m thick in other implementations III Nitride buffer layer may be only approximately 0.5 m to approximately 1.0 m thick while in yet other implementations III Nitride buffer layer may be approximately 0.1 m to approximately 0.5 m thick. In addition it is noted that III Nitride buffer layer may include a plurality of interlayers.

Referring now to device layer device layer may be a III Nitride device layer formed over III Nitride buffer layer as shown in . In some implementations device layer may be formed of several device interlayers necessary to form for example a fabricated device such as a diode FET or HEMT device interlayers not shown in . Other possible fabricated devices include optoelectronic devices such as light emitting diodes LEDs lasers and detectors sensors. In addition or alternatively device layer may include device structures involving single or multilayer spacers capping channel and barrier layers for example.

Referring to a cross sectional view of semiconductor structure A is shown according to another implementation. In some situations it may be advantageous to develop a III Nitride stack which is thicker than 2 3 m or to form devices having a breakdown voltage greater than 300V for example. In such situations semiconductor structure A may prove advantageous. According to the implementation shown by semiconductor structure A modified second transition body replaces second transition body in . As shown in second transition body may include first transition module repeated three times. In one implementation each transition module may include three interlayers and . Interlayers and may be formed of AlInGaN and may be substantially the same as the corresponding interlayers described by reference to . However according to the present implementation multiple transition modules are formed in order to accommodate the added strain that a thicker III Nitride epi structure or larger diameter non III Nitride substrate may require for example by modifying the deformation of the composite structure with the initiation of each transition module . Alternatively the use of additional transition modules may allow for thicker epi structures with the initiation of each transition module subjecting the structure to an opposing stress state. As interlayer is grown additional stress is added that can once again cause the composite structure to approach a critical deformation limit. The thickness of each of transition modules and their constituent interlayers and is governed by the lattice parameter of the interlayers and the resulting stress added to the composite structure due to the mismatch in lattice parameters of the constituent layers. In the current example interlayer acts to counter the net stress state however not so much that it may also cause a deformation limit at the other extreme to be exceeded. It is noted that although shows three transition modules in other implementations more or less than three transition modules may be utilized. It is further noted that in one implementation one or more additional interlayers may be formed between transition modules .

Referring to a schematic of semiconductor structure A is shown superimposed below a schematic of potential plot B of the deformation of the composite structure at various times during the formation of semiconductor structure A. Actual measurement of the deformation may vary greatly in both feature and relative magnitude and is meant only to guide the current discussion. As in the deformation may be associated with the interlayer lattice constant differences and thicknesses of the various interlayers transition layers and substrate and or may be associated with the differences in thermal coefficients of expansion particularly in the cooling from high temperatures.

In region I of potential plot B as layer intermediate body and first transition body are formed they add stress to the composite structure which results in the deformation of the composite structure. As growth continues the deformation approaches a critical deformation limit. To prevent exceeding this critical deformation limit second transition body is initiated in region II starting with first transition module subjecting the composite structure to an opposing stress state. In the current example interlayer of transition module counters the stress state however not so much that it may also cause exceeding a deformation limit at the other extreme. Once the stress state is adequately modified interlayers and are formed within region III. Again as interlayer is grown a deformation limit is approached. However in this example a thicker composite structure is desired to attain the required device performance levels than the use of one transition module will allow without exceeding a deformation limit. As such to once again prevent exceeding a deformation limit during growth the first transition module is terminated and a second transition module is initiated in region IV. Similar to the first transition module interlayer of the second transition module again counters the stress state. Once the stress state is adequately modified interlayers and are formed within region V completing the formation of the second transition module .

A third transition module may then be formed in regions VI and VII or if thicker III Nitride material is required a forth fifth and so forth transition modules may be formed similar to first and second transition modules to achieve the desired total epitaxial thickness completing the formation of the second transition body . Finally in Region VIII buffer layer and device layer are formed and growth of composite semiconductor structure A is then terminated once again without exceeding a critical deformation limit. Semiconductor structure A is then cooled down to room temperature in region IX. Upon cooling the final deformation which occurs due to mismatches in thermal expansion of the wafer is substantially minimized due to termination of the growth near the substantially optimal final as grown deformation condition achieved in region VIII.

Alternatively and as shown by semiconductor structure in another exemplary implementation may modify second transition body in through substitution of transition modules for some of transition modules . As shown in according to one such implementation second transition body includes transition module and transition module formed of interlayers and repeated twice. In certain implementations transition module may be formed over transition module as depicted in . In other implementations transition module may be formed between two transition modules . It is noted that although interlayers and are depicted as having similar thicknesses in that representation has been adopted merely to simplify the description of semiconductor structure . In other implementations interlayers and can have the differing thicknesses discussed in greater detail above.

According to the present implementation interlayers and forming transition module have one interlayer in common with the interlayers forming transition module e.g. interlayer . However in other implementations transition modules and may have several interlayers in common or may have none in common. In some other implementations the interlayer compositions of transition modules and may be substantially the same but their respective thicknesses or deposition conditions may be different. Although only a limited number of possible variations are presented as example implementations in the interest of clarity it is to be understood that second transition body can be adapted in a number of ways consistent with the present concepts. For example one alternative implementation may utilize two or more transition modules with each transition module having a different number of interlayers and or wherein each interlayer differs in composition from every other interlayer included in second transition body .

Referring to semiconductor structure presents one additional example implementation of a semiconductor structure according to the present concepts. According to the implementation shown in second transition body in is replaced by second transition body . As shown by semiconductor structure second transition body may form a multi interlayer or superlattice region including transition module and transition module repeated twice. Transition module may include three interlayers for example interlayer formed over interlayer formed over interlayer as shown in . Moreover according to the present implementation transition module may include three interlayers for example interlayer formed over interlayer formed over interlayer . In certain implementations interlayers and may both be AlN interlayers for example with AlN interlayer being formed thinner or thicker and at a lower or higher temperature than AlN interlayer

Thus the semiconductor structures disclosed herein are configured to reduce strain and subsequent macroscopic deformation associated with the differences in lattice parameters and thermal expansion coefficients of the constituent layers within the composite semiconductor structure. As a result the disclosed semiconductor structures can advantageously enable use of large diameter wafers capable of supporting thicker III Nitride Layers with little or no cracking with minimal plastic deformation or dislocation propagation and with resultant warp and bow levels within acceptable limits. Consequently the semiconductor structures disclosed herein can be used to enable formation of devices exhibiting low leakage low dynamic Rdson high punch through voltage and high vertical breakdown capability.

From the above description it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts described in the present application without departing from the scope of those concepts. Moreover while the concepts have been described with specific reference to certain implementations a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of those concepts. As such the described implementations are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the present application is not limited to the particular implementations described herein but many rearrangements modifications and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

