---

title: Mechanism for facilitating dynamic and trusted cloud-based extension upgrades for computing systems
abstract: A mechanism is described for facilitating dynamic and trusted cloud-based extension upgrades for computing systems according to one embodiment of the invention. A method of embodiments of the invention includes detecting a computing device needing an upgrade. The upgrade may relate to a hardware component at the computing device needing an upgrade element for the upgrade. The method may further include calling a first cloud server to provide the upgrade over a network. The first cloud server may have first resources including the upgrade element. The method may further include facilitating the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the first cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949818&OS=08949818&RS=08949818
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08949818
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to computer upgrading environments. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to a mechanism for facilitating dynamic and trusted cloud based extension upgrades for computing systems.

Software applications and various hardware computing resources often require updating and or upgrading to continue to perform better however current updating upgrading environments are limited in terms of updates upgrades particularly as they relate to hardware resources and features which can limit capabilities provided to software applications and other computing resources. For example when a new or upgraded hardware feature is needed it may not be available at the system to be added and may require the user to wait until a new hardware platform is available in the market. In other words often new services cannot be enabled on older platforms and one has to wait for a new platform or the capability to become available which could take several months or even years .

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in details in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.

In one embodiment a mechanism is provided for facilitating dynamic and trusted cloud based extension upgrades at computing systems without having to require hardware upgrades. For example a computing system having an older platform may not be capable of employing an enhancement such as a new application programming interface API etc. without a hardware upgrade. In this case in one embodiment the mechanism may contact one or more cloud extension servers to obtain the enhancement such as the API without having to perform the hardware upgrade on the computing system. Throughout this document various security environments such as trusted execution environment TEE are used as examples but it is contemplated that embodiments of the invention are not limited to simply the security environments and that they may be applied to any number and type of system software and hardware upgrades such as APIs Graphical User Interface GUI windows camera features audio features etc.

Computing device includes an operating system O S serving as an interface between any hardware or physical resources of the computer device and a user. Computing device further includes one or more processors memory devices network devices now shown drivers not shown or the like as well as input output I O sources such as touchscreens touch panels touch pads virtual or regular keyboards virtual or regular mice etc. It is to be noted that terms like computing device node computing node client memory client host server memory server machine device computing device computer computing system and the like may be used interchangeably and synonymously throughout this document.

In one embodiment various resources N are placed at a number of cloud extension servers N also referred to as cloud extensions cloud systems cloud servers or simply cloud to be accessed and provided as upgrades to the host machine using cloud based upgrade mechanism over a network e.g. Internet . In one embodiment trust verification logic is used to establish trust between cloud based upgrade mechanism and one or more cloud extension servers to verify and authenticate each cloud extension server and its resources before any communication or exchange may take place. The establishing of trust or verification or authentication may be done using any one or more of existing authentication techniques or trust establishment protocols such as key exchange protocols enhanced privacy identification EPID based sigma key exchange etc. This trust establishment process may be a one time process such as trust establishment may be performed between cloud based upgrade mechanism and cloud extension server and thereafter with cloud extension server and so on as new cloud extension servers N are continuously added to the cloud network and placed in communication with mechanism .

With the establishment of trust any future communication between mechanism and cloud servers is authorized to occur over network . Now let us suppose if an upgrade e.g. hardware upgrade to a component is needed at the host machine the mechanism may automatically detect the need for an upgrade using detection logic . Mechanism may automatically detect the upgrade need or be reached by a software application or the operating system or some other logic at the host machine. For example detection logic detects the TEE hardware at the host machine calling on an Elliptic Curve Cryptography ECC API that does not exist in the current TEE hardware. In response in one embodiment platform check logic checks and verifies whether the upgrade capability already exists at the local platform of the host computing device. For example platform check logic checks the platform to see whether the platform contains the ability to upgrade the TEE hardware to have an ECC API. If the capability already exists at the local platform the upgrade is locally performed and there is no need to contact any of the cloud servers .

If the local platform is determined to be incapable of performing local upgrades such as the upgrade is not available and requires a new piece of hardware or a new platform etc. call module of communication logic is used to call one or more cloud servers to determine whether any of resources N includes the needed upgrade. Continuing with the TEE hardware example if the platform is not capable of upgrading the TEE hardware with or providing it access to the ECC API call module calls on cloud servers N to determine whether one of cloud servers N can provide the needed ECC API.

In one embodiment upon calling on cloud servers N it is determined that resources at cloud server contains the needed upgrade element and may provide it to the host machine. With that determination cloud server answers back with providing access to the upgrade element. In other words in one embodiment the hardware needing the upgrade is provided access to the upgrade element contained within resources at cloud server without having to upgrade the existing hardware to a newer version or requiring a new platform or piece of hardware etc. Continuing with the TEE hardware example upon determining the ECC API is contained within resources and thus can be provided by cloud server TEE hardware is provided access to the ECC API at cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the TEE hardware at the host machine. In one embodiment this access can be short termed or long termed depending on various needs and resources of the host machine or as desired by the user e.g. system administrator software programmer end user consumer etc. .

It is contemplated that any number and type of components may be added to and or removed from the cloud based upgrade mechanism to facilitate various embodiments of the invention including adding removing and or enhancing certain features. For brevity clarity and ease of understanding of the cloud based upgrade mechanism many of the standard and or known components such as those of a computing device are not shown or discussed here. It is contemplated that embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular technology topology system architecture and or standard and are dynamic enough to adopt and adapt to any future changes.

Transaction sequence begins at with establishment of trust between cloud based upgrade mechanism and cloud extension server having resource . In one embodiment the cloud based upgrade mechanism may be employed at a host machine where hardware or an application may need an upgrade. At cloud based upgrade mechanism automatically detects or receives a notification for the need for an upgrade. At cloud based mechanism checks to determine whether the capability to upgrade already exists at a local platform within the host machine . If the capability exists the upgrade is performed locally.

At if the capability does not exist cloud based upgrade mechanism places a call with the cloud extension server to determine whether its resources can offer the needed upgrade. At the cloud extension server returns with an answer as to whether its resources can provide the needed upgrade. At the answer is forwarded on to the host machine . If not the cloud based upgrade mechanism may call another cloud based extension server for the upgrade. If yes at the hardware or application at the host machine needing the upgrade is provided access to the upgrade through the resources at the cloud extension server .

Method begins at block with preserving and providing of various resources at a number of cloud extension servers. In one embodiment resources may include hardware elements or components and software modules etc. that may be provided over a network to a computing device to upgrade its hardware or software components. In other words instead of having to upgrade or replace a piece of hardware at a computing device the computing system may be provided access to an upgrade element at a cloud extension server that can serve the same purpose without having to upgrade replace the hardware. At block a need for an upgrade at the computing device is detected or a notification regarding the upgrade is received. At block the capability of a local platform at the computing device is checked. At block a determination is made as to whether an update capability exists at the local platform of the computing device. If yes a local upgrade of the hardware is performed at block .

At block if the local capability does not exist one or more cloud extension servers are called over a network. At block one or more answers from the one or more cloud extension servers are received. The one or more answers disclose whether at least one of the one or more cloud extension servers include the needed upgrade element. At block at least one answer received from a cloud extension server having the upgrade element is forwarded to the computing device. At block the hardware needing the upgrade is provided access to the upgrade element at the cloud extension server to avoid having to upgrade or replace the hardware.

Computing system includes bus or a link an interconnect or another type of communication device or interface to communicate information and processor coupled to bus that may process information. While computing system is illustrated with a single processor electronic system may include multiple processors and or co processors such as one or more of central processors graphics processors and physics processors etc. Computing system may further include random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device referred to as main memory coupled to bus and may store information and instructions that may be executed by processor . Main memory may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor .

Computing system may also include read only memory ROM and or other storage device coupled to bus that may store static information and instructions for processor . Date storage device may be coupled to bus to store information and instructions. Date storage device such as magnetic disk or optical disc and corresponding drive may be coupled to computing system .

Computing system may also be coupled via bus to display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD or Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED array to display information to a user. User input device including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to bus to communicate information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys to communicate direction information and command selections to processor and to control cursor movement on display .

Camera and microphone arrays of computer system may be coupled to bus to observe gestures record audio and video and to receive and transmit visual and audio commands.

Computing system may further include network interface s to provide access to a network such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN metropolitan area network MAN personal area network PAN Bluetooth an intranet the Internet etc. Network interface s may include for example a wireless network interface having antenna which may represent one or more antenna e . Network interface s may also include for example a wired network interface to communicate with remote devices via network cable which may be for example an Ethernet cable a coaxial cable a fiber optic cable a serial cable or a parallel cable.

Network interface s may provide access to a LAN for example by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and or IEEE 802.11g standards and or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network for example by conforming to Bluetooth standards. Other wireless network interfaces and or protocols including previous and subsequent versions of the standards may also be supported.

In addition to or instead of communication via the wireless LAN standards network interface s may provide wireless communication using for example Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocols Global Systems for Mobile Communications GSM protocols Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocols and or any other type of wireless communications protocols.

Network interface s may including one or more communication interfaces such as a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for coupling to the Ethernet token ring or other types of physical wired or wireless attachments for purposes of providing a communication link to support a LAN or a WAN for example. In this manner the computer system may also be coupled to a number of peripheral devices clients control surfaces consoles or servers via a conventional network infrastructure including an Intranet or the Internet for example.

It is to be appreciated that a lesser or more equipped system than the example described above may be preferred for certain implementations. Therefore the configuration of computing system may vary from implementation to implementation depending upon numerous factors such as price constraints performance requirements technological improvements or other circumstances. Examples of the electronic device or computer system may include without limitation a mobile device a personal digital assistant a mobile computing device a smartphone a cellular telephone a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combinations thereof.

Embodiments may be implemented as any or a combination of one or more microchips or integrated circuits interconnected using a parentboard hardwired logic software stored by a memory device and executed by a microprocessor firmware an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and or a field programmable gate array FPGA . The term logic may include by way of example software or hardware and or combinations of software and hardware.

Embodiments may be provided for example as a computer program product which may include one or more machine readable media having stored thereon machine executable instructions that when executed by one or more machines such as a computer network of computers or other electronic devices may result in the one or more machines carrying out operations in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. A machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs Compact Disc Read Only Memories and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories EEPROMs Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memories magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing machine executable instructions.

Moreover embodiments may be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of one or more data signals embodied in and or modulated by a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem and or network connection . Accordingly as used herein a machine readable medium may but is not required to comprise such a carrier wave.

References to one embodiment an embodiment example embodiment various embodiments etc. indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include particular features structures or characteristics but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular features structures or characteristics. Further some embodiments may have some all or none of the features described for other embodiments.

In the following description and claims the term coupled along with its derivatives may be used. Coupled is used to indicate that two or more elements co operate or interact with each other but they may or may not have intervening physical or electrical components between them.

As used in the claims unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives first second third etc. to describe a common element merely indicate that different instances of like elements are being referred to and are not intended to imply that the elements so described must be in a given sequence either temporally spatially in ranking or in any other manner.

The following clauses and or examples pertain to further embodiments. Specifics in the examples may be used anywhere in one or more embodiments. The various features of the different embodiments may be variously combined with some features included and others excluded to suit a variety of different applications. Some embodiments pertain to a method comprising detecting a computing device needing an upgrade wherein the upgrade relates to a hardware component at the computing device needing an upgrade element for the upgrade calling a first cloud server to provide the upgrade over a network wherein the first cloud server having first resources including the upgrade element and facilitating the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the first cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising placing and maintaining the first resources at the first cloud server.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising calling a second cloud server having second resources to provide the upgrade if the first resources at the first cloud server do not include the upgrade element.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising facilitating the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the second cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising prior to calling the first cloud server checking whether a platform at the computing device is capable of performing the upgrade.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising facilitating the upgrade of the hardware component locally at the computing device if the platform is determined to be capable of performing the upgrade.

Embodiments include any of the above methods further comprising receiving an answer from the first cloud server wherein the answer includes information regarding whether the first resources include the upgrade element.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises a cloud based upgrade mechanism having first logic to detect a computing device needing an upgrade wherein the upgrade relates to a hardware component at the computing device needing an upgrade element for the upgrade second logic to call a first cloud server to provide the upgrade over a network wherein the first cloud server having first resources including the upgrade element and third logic to facilitate the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the first cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising fourth logic to place and maintain the first resources at the first cloud server.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the second logic is further to call a second cloud server having second resources to provide the upgrade if the first resources at the first cloud server do not include the upgrade element.

Embodiments include the apparatus above wherein the third logic is further to facilitate the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the second cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising fifth logic to prior to calling the first cloud server check whether a platform at the computing device is capable of performing the upgrade.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising sixth logic to facilitate the upgrade of the hardware component locally at the computing device if the platform is determined to be capable of performing the upgrade.

Embodiments include the apparatus above further comprising seventh logic to receive an answer from the first cloud server wherein the answer includes information regarding whether the first resources include the upgrade element.

In another embodiment a system comprises a computing device having a memory to store instructions and a processing device to execute the instructions wherein the instructions cause the processing device to detect a computing device needing an upgrade wherein the upgrade relates to a hardware component at the computing device needing an upgrade element for the upgrade call a first cloud server to provide the upgrade over a network wherein the first cloud server having first resources including the upgrade element and facilitate the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the first cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to place and maintain the first resources at the first cloud server.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to call a second cloud server having second resources to provide the upgrade if the first resources at the first cloud server do not include the upgrade element.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to facilitate the hardware component to access the upgrade element at the second cloud server without having to upgrade or replace the hardware component.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to prior to calling the first cloud server check whether a platform at the computing device is capable of performing the upgrade.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to facilitate the upgrade of the hardware component locally at the computing device if the platform is determined to be capable of performing the upgrade.

Embodiments include the system above wherein the processing device is further to receive an answer from the first cloud server wherein the answer includes information regarding whether the first resources include the upgrade element.

In another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for performing any one or more of the operations mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment at least one machine readable comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device causes the computing device to carry out a method according to any one or more of the operations mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment a computing device arranged to perform a method according to any one or more of the operations mentioned above.

The drawings and the forgoing description give examples of embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more of the described elements may well be combined into a single functional element. Alternatively certain elements may be split into multiple functional elements. Elements from one embodiment may be added to another embodiment. For example orders of processes described herein may be changed and are not limited to the manner described herein. Moreover the actions any flow diagram need not be implemented in the order shown nor do all of the acts necessarily need to be performed. Also those acts that are not dependent on other acts may be performed in parallel with the other acts. The scope of embodiments is by no means limited by these specific examples. Numerous variations whether explicitly given in the specification or not such as differences in structure dimension and use of material are possible. The scope of embodiments is at least as broad as given by the following claims.

