---

title: For-your-information events
abstract: A for-your-information event can be received in a computer system. The for-your-information event can include an event time field that indicates a scheduled time for the for-your-information event. The computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time of the for-your-information event on a calendar in response to receiving the for-your-information event. User input indicating that the for-your-information event is to be converted to a regular event can be received. In response to the user input, the computer system can convert the for-your-information event to a regular event. Converting the for-your information event can include automatically including the scheduled time of the for-your-information event as a scheduled time for the converted regular event. Also in response to the user input, the computer system can automatically block the scheduled time of the for-your-information event on the calendar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269064&OS=09269064&RS=09269064
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09269064
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20121126
---
In current calendaring systems digital calendar events can be sent to inform others about occurrences. For example if a user is to schedule a business team meeting on Friday from 1 00 PM to 2 00 PM the user can provide user input to generate and send an event in the form of a meeting invite from that user s user profile to user profiles for other users who are members of the business team. When the other users calendar applications in their computer systems receive the meeting invite those other calendar applications automatically block the Friday 1 00 PM to 2 00 PM time on calendars for the other team members user profiles. As used herein blocking a scheduled time for an event on a calendar refers to assigning the event to the scheduled time in a calendar data structure so that when a representation of a time period for the calendar that includes the scheduled time is displayed a representation of the event appears for the scheduled time. Additionally a representation of the meeting invite can be displayed for each of the other users and the representation can include user interface controls for providing user input on how to deal with the meeting invite a button for accepting the meeting invite a button for declining the meeting invite a button for tentatively accepting the meeting invite etc. .

The description below relates to for your information events and regular events. As used herein events are data structures whose data includes a representation of a scheduled time for the event. A for your information event is an event that defines a scheduled time. However the scheduled time for a for your information event is not automatically blocked in a main calendar such as a main calendar of a user profile receiving the event upon receiving the event. A regular event as used herein is an event that defines a scheduled time and for which the scheduled time is automatically blocked in the main calendar upon receiving the event. For your information events may be represented in a secondary display region but not in a main calendar region while the main calendar including regular events may be represented in the main calendar region. Also the main calendar may be shared including sharing of at least some level of detail regarding the regular events without for your information events being shared.

In one embodiment the tools and techniques can include receiving a for your information event in a computer system. The for your information event can include an event time field that indicates a scheduled time for the for your information event. The computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time of the for your information event on a calendar in response to receiving the for your information event. A regular event can also be received in the computer system. The received regular event can include a time field that indicates a scheduled time for the received regular event. The computer system can automatically block the scheduled time for the received regular event on the calendar in response to receiving the received regular event. A representation of the for your information event can be displayed. The representation can include a user interface control that can be selected by user input to convert the for your information event to a converted regular event and to block the scheduled time of the for your information event on the calendar for the converted regular event.

In another embodiment of the tools and techniques a for your information event can be received in a computer system. The for your information event can include an event time field that indicates a scheduled time for the for your information event. The computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time of the for your information event on a calendar in response to receiving the for your information event. User input indicating that the for your information event is to be converted to a regular event can be received. In response to the user input the computer system can convert the for your information event to a regular event. Converting the for your information event can include automatically including the scheduled time of the for your information event as a scheduled time for the converted regular event. Also in response to the user input the computer system can automatically block the scheduled time of the for your information event on the calendar.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form. The concepts are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Similarly the invention is not limited to implementations that address the particular techniques tools environments disadvantages or advantages discussed in the Background the Detailed Description or the attached drawings.

Embodiments described herein are directed to improved techniques and tools for sharing and handling of shared events. Such improvements may result from the use of various techniques and tools separately or in combination.

There is currently not a convenient way to send an event to a recipient without blocking time on the recipient s calendar but to allow the event to later be converted to an event with blocked time on the calendar. The techniques and tools discussed herein relate to for your information events that can be sent and received without automatically blocking the scheduled time for the event on a recipient s calendar. However after the for your information event is received user input may be provided to convert the for your information event to a regular event and block the scheduled time of the for your information event on the recipient s calendar. Such for your information events may be beneficial in providing recipients information on some types of occurrences such as occurrences where the corresponding user s attendance may be optional e.g. an informational meeting or speaker series or where a set time need not be scheduled e.g. deadlines . However if the recipient user decides to schedule the time the user may do so. For example a for your information event on an optional informational meeting may be converted to a regular event to block the scheduled time for the meeting on the user s calendar after the user decides to attend the meeting and provides user input to prompt the conversion.

The subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the benefits described herein. A particular implementation of the invention may provide all some or none of the benefits described herein. Although operations for the various techniques are described herein in a particular sequential order for the sake of presentation it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangements in the order of operations unless a particular ordering is required. For example operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover for the sake of simplicity flowcharts may not show the various ways in which particular techniques can be used in conjunction with other techniques.

Techniques described herein may be used with one or more of the systems described herein and or with one or more other systems. For example the various procedures described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or a combination of both. For example dedicated hardware logic components can be constructed to implement at least a portion of one or more of the techniques described herein. For example and without limitation such hardware logic components may include Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Program specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Program specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Techniques may be implemented using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Additionally the techniques described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. As an example implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Moreover virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the techniques or functionality as described herein.

The computing environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to scope of use or functionality of the invention as the present invention may be implemented in diverse general purpose or special purpose computing environments.

With reference to the computing environment includes at least one processing unit or processor and memory . In this most basic configuration is included within a dashed line. The processing unit executes computer executable instructions and may be a real or a virtual processor. In a multi processing system multiple processing units execute computer executable instructions to increase processing power. The memory may be volatile memory e.g. registers cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM EEPROM flash memory or some combination of the two. The memory stores software implementing for your information events. An implementation of for your information events may involve all or part of the activities of the processor and memory being embodied in hardware logic as an alternative to or in addition to the software .

Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines of and the other figures discussed below would more accurately be grey and blurred. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component e.g. if the display device includes a touch screen . Also processors have memory. The inventors hereof recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop handheld device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computer computing environment or computing device. 

A computing environment may have additional features. In the computing environment includes storage one or more input devices one or more output devices and one or more communication connections . An interconnection mechanism not shown such as a bus controller or network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically operating system software not shown provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment .

The storage may be removable or non removable and may include computer readable storage media such as flash drives magnetic disks magnetic tapes or cassettes CD ROMs CD RWs DVDs or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed within the computing environment . The storage stores instructions for the software .

The input device s may be one or more of various different input devices. For example the input device s may include a user device such as a mouse keyboard trackball etc. The input device s may implement one or more natural user interface techniques such as speech recognition touch and stylus recognition recognition of gestures in contact with the input device s and adjacent to the input device s recognition of air gestures head and eye tracking voice and speech recognition sensing user brain activity e.g. using EEG and related methods and machine intelligence e.g. using machine intelligence to understand user intentions and goals . As other examples the input device s may include a scanning device a network adapter a CD DVD reader or another device that provides input to the computing environment . The output device s may be a display printer speaker CD DVD writer network adapter or another device that provides output from the computing environment . The input device s and output device s may be incorporated in a single system or device such as a touch screen or a virtual reality system.

The communication connection s enable communication over a communication medium to another computing entity. Additionally functionality of the components of the computing environment may be implemented in a single computing machine or in multiple computing machines that are able to communicate over communication connections. Thus the computing environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computing devices such as a handheld computing device a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or another common network node. The communication medium conveys information such as data or computer executable instructions or requests in a modulated data signal. A modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired or wireless techniques implemented with an electrical optical RF infrared acoustic or other carrier.

The tools and techniques can be described in the general context of computer readable media which may be storage media or communication media. Computer readable storage media are any available storage media that can be accessed within a computing environment but the term computer readable storage media does not refer to propagated signals per se. By way of example and not limitation with the computing environment computer readable storage media include memory storage and combinations of the above.

The tools and techniques can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as those included in program modules being executed in a computing environment on a target real or virtual processor. Generally program modules include routines programs libraries objects classes components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The functionality of the program modules may be combined or split between program modules as desired in various embodiments. Computer executable instructions for program modules may be executed within a local or distributed computing environment. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media.

For the sake of presentation the detailed description uses terms like determine choose receive send block display convert share and operate to describe computer operations in a computing environment. These and other similar terms are high level abstractions for operations performed by a computer and should not be confused with acts performed by a human being unless performance of an act by a human being such as a user is explicitly noted. The actual computer operations corresponding to these terms vary depending on the implementation.

The main calendar can be data for a calendar such as a calendar for a single user profile or group of user profiles. The event handling application may also access one or more other calendars not shown such as one or more other calendars for a single user profile. The main calendar may incorporate events from one or more sub calendars e.g. a work calendar for a user profile a personal calendar for the user profile etc. . The event handling application can also access for your information event data . The for your information event data may include data structures for your information events. The main calendar and the for your information event data may be included in a single data structure or in separate data structures. For example events in the main calendar may be distinguished by for your information events by a flag in each event record or they may be distinguished by being included in separate collections. Also the main calendar and the for your information event data may be included in a data structure that includes other information such as e mail records.

The event sending computer system can generate and send regular events such as regular meeting invitations to the event receiving computer system. The event sending computer system may also send for your information events to the event receiving computer system . The event sending computer system may send multiple for your information events as part of a for your information calendar that may be provided in any of various ways such as by downloading the for your information calendar from a web server which can be the event sending computer system in that situation . The for your information events for your information calendars and or regular events may be sent in one or more of various different types of computing communications such as email messages network messages intra application function calls application programming interface calls etc.

The event handling application in the event receiving computer system can receive for your information events for your information calendars and or regular events and can process those received items and incorporate them into the main calendar and the for your information event data . For example the event handling application can receive a for your information event and can include the for your information event in the for your information event data without blocking time on the main calendar . However the event handling application may display a representation of the received for your information event outside a display region for the main calendar e.g. in a secondary display region that is different from the display region for the main calendar . Additionally the event handling application may respond to user input by converting the for your information event to a regular event and automatically blocking a scheduled time from the for your information event on the main calendar .

The event handling application can also receive regular events and automatically block scheduled times for those regular events on the main calendar . For example the time may be blocked as busy out of the office tentative free etc.

Upon receiving a for your information event calendar the event handling application can include the for your information events in the for your information event calendar in the for your information event data and representations of the for your information event data may be displayed along with other for your information events . The for your information event calendar may be displayed separately from other for your information event data outside the main calendar such as in a separate secondary calendar. Also the for your information events in the for your information event data may each be converted to regular events in response to user input requesting such conversion.

The event receiving computer system can send one or more event responses to the regular events and or the for your information events . For example such responses may be sent in response to user input specifying treatment of received for your information events and or regular events . For example the user input may specify that a regular event is to be accepted declined or tentatively accepted and the event response may indicate this action to the event sending computer system . Similarly for your information events the event response may indicate that the for your information event has been successfully received has been ignored and or has been converted to a regular event .

While an example of the for your information event computer system has been discussed above various changes may be made to the system . For example the for your information events regular events and or for your information event calendars may be received at the event receiving computer system when the event or or calendar was sent from a different user profile on the computer system. Also while one event sending computer system and one event receiving computer system are shown the event sending computer system may also act as an event receiving computer system the event receiving computer system may also act as an event sending computer system and the for your information event computer system may include many sending and receiving computer systems and . Accordingly the event sending computer system can include an event handling application main calendar for your information event data etc. As another example while a single event handling application is shown as handling for your information events and regular events the event receiving computer system could include one application for handling regular events and another application for handling for your information events . In such an implementation conversion of for your information events to regular events could involve communications e.g. application programming interface calls between the applications.

Examples of for your information event displays will now be discussed. Such displays may be displayed in the event sending computer system the event receiving computer system and or some other computing system that is connected to the event sending computer system and or event receiving computer system . Each of the displays can be presented by an application such as a calendaring application. Such an application may also handle other information such as e mails that are not calendar items though some calendar events may be sent as email messages and related information such as contacts tasks etc. The displays can be surfaced as user interfaces on a computer display and the user interfaces may be represented in any of various ways such as with user interface elements data structures including multiple user interface elements e.g. trees of user interface elements etc. Such data structures can be used by rendering engines to render the user interface displays. User input directed to controls in the user interface displays can be recognized and responded to by invoking appropriate modules within the computer system to perform the techniques discussed herein.

Referring now to a user interface display for receiving user input for a for your information event is illustrated. For example the user interface display may be displayed and user input may be provided to fill in fields of the user interface display at the event sending computer system discussed above with reference to . For example the user interface display may be a dialog that is raised in the context of a sales team calendar. For example a user profile such as a profile with a name label of JOE ALLEN may have been logged into the sales team calendar when generating and filling in the user interface display .

The user interface display can include a TO field which can list labels names email addresses other aliases etc. for the user profiles to which the for your information FYI event is to be sent. In the example of the TO field lists EDIE BELL SALLY COURT MIKE DEAN and HAN KIM as recipients. The user interface display can also include a SUBJECT field which can list a subject for the for your information event.

Additionally the user interface display can include a scheduled time field which can list a scheduled time for the for your information event. The scheduled time may be a specific time including a time of day a range of times including times of day a date a range of dates etc. In the example the scheduled time field includes a START TIME entry box and an END TIME entry box. Additionally a check box for an ALL DAY EVENT is checked so that the for your information event will have a scheduled time that extends for one or more entire days. Accordingly in the example the start time and end time each list a date without a time of day. The user interface display can also include a message field which can include a message to be included in the for your information event resulting from the user interface display .

The user interface display can also include a reminder field which can indicate whether a reminder is to be provided to the recipients of the for your information event. For example a checkbox to the left of the word REMINDER can indicate that a reminder is to be provided if the checkbox is checked which it is not in the example provided . The reminder may be provided in any of various ways such as surfacing a user interface display making a sound etc. Additionally the reminder field can list an amount of time before the scheduled time for the reminder to be provided the reminder time . Also a SEND EMAIL checkbox can be checked to indicate that an e mail is to be sent to the recipient at the reminder time to remind the recipient of the for your information event. The fields and can be filled in response to user input and may also be edited in response to user input.

Additionally the user interface display can include a send control which can be selected by user input to initiate sending of the for your information event resulting from the user interface display . For example referring to the event sending computer system can respond to the user input selecting the send control by sending the information in the fields and of in a for your information event from the event sending computer system to the event receiving computer system .

Referring now to the for your information event resulting from the information in the fields and of can be received at the event receiving computer system . A representation of the for your information event can be displayed such as in the form illustrated as a user interface display in . The user interface display may be displayed automatically upon receipt of the for your information event or the user interface display may be displayed after additional user input e.g. user input selecting a less detailed representation of the for your information event . The user interface display can include a TO field including information from the TO field from and a from field listing the label for the user profile and possibly the calendar from which the for your information event came. Additionally the user interface display can include a subject field scheduled time field and a message field each including the information from the corresponding field or of the user interface display of . The user interface display may also include a sent time field listing a time when the for your information event was sent.

In addition to the informational fields and the user interface display may include controls which can be selected to provide user input instructing the event receiving computer system on how to handle the received for your information event . For example the controls can include a conversion control which can be selected to have the event receiving computer system convert the for your information event to a regular event and block the scheduled time from the scheduled time field on a calendar for a user profile that is active at the event receiving computer system such as EDIE BELL SALLY COURT MIKE DEAN or HAN KIM . For example this conversion may be performed by the event receiving computer system revising a flag in the for your information event or moving the event from a for your information event collection to a regular event collection. The event receiving computer system may also prompt for additional user input before or after converting the for your information event such as additional user input indicating one of multiple available time blocking categories for the converted event e.g. as busy out of the office tentative free etc. . Alternatively such a blocking category may be automatically selected such as using a default blocking category or the system may not use blocking categories.

The controls of the user interface display may also include an open calendar control that can be selected to prompt the event receiving computer system to open and display a calendar for an active user profile on the event receiving computer system e.g. by making a function or application programming interface call . The user interface display may also include an ignore control which can be selected to ignore the corresponding for your information event so that the for your information event is not included in the for your information event data and is not displayed with other for your information events . The user interface display can also include a close control which can be selected by user input to close the user interface display and leave the corresponding for your information event in the for your information event data .

Referring to a user interface display is illustrated providing an example of a user interface display of a calendar application. The user interface can include a view of a main calendar and for your information event representations with the for your information event represented by the user interface display of having been left as a for your information event in the for your information event data . The user interface display can include a main calendar region which can display representations of regular events in a main calendar being displayed in month view in the example although other views such as day views week views etc. may also be used such as a main calendar for an active user profile for the user profile having the label MIKE in the example of and in discussed below . As can be seen the main calendar region in the example displays representations of regular events blocking time on March 22nd March 29th and March 30th.

The user interface display can also include a for your information region . The for your information region can include representations of for your information events and the for your information region may additionally include other information such as representations of regular events that are also represented in the main calendar region . For example the user interface display of is for a current day of Mar. 22 2011. In the TODAY area of the for your information region regular calendar events for the current day can be represented under the heading APPOINTMENTS while for your information events on the current day may be listed under the heading OTHER EVENTS . Additionally the LOOK FORWARD area of the for your information region can include for your information events and regular calendar events beyond the current day e.g. for a month beyond the current day or some other amount of time beyond the current day .

As can be seen in this example the for your information region includes a for your information representation of the for your information event that was also represented by the user interface display discussed above with reference to . This for your information representation is included in the LOOK FORWARD area of the for your information region . However time on the main calendar in the main calendar region is not blocked for the for your information representation as can be seen in the empty March 31 calendar block in the main calendar region . The for your information representation can be an interactive control that can be selected to bring up additional information and or controls related to the for your information event represented by the for your information representation . For example selecting the for your information representation could result in the event receiving computer system displaying a drop down menu with options such as the options provided by the controls and discussed above with reference to . As another example selecting the for your information representation could result in the event receiving computer system displaying the user interface display discussed above with reference to .

Referring now to a user interface display is similar to the user interface display discussed above with reference to with a main calendar region including regular event representations and with a for your information region . However in the user interface display the date has moved forward to March 31 the date of the for your information event discussed above with reference to . Accordingly the for your information representation that represents the for your information event represented by the user interface displays of above is located in the TODAY area of the for your information region rather than the LOOK FORWARD area of the for your information region as was the case with the for your information representation in the user interface display of .

Several for your information event techniques will now be discussed. Each of these techniques can be performed in a computing environment. For example each technique may be performed in a computer system that includes at least one processor and memory including instructions stored thereon that when executed by at least one processor cause at least one processor to perform the technique memory stores instructions e.g. object code and when processor s execute s those instructions processor s perform s the technique . Similarly one or more computer readable storage media may have computer executable instructions embodied thereon that when executed by at least one processor cause at least one processor to perform the technique. The techniques discussed below may be performed at least in part by hardware logic.

Referring to a for your information event technique will be discussed. The technique can include receiving a for your information event in a computer system. The for your information event can include an event time field that indicates a scheduled time for the for your information event. The computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time of the for your information event on a calendar in response to receiving the for your information event. The technique can include receiving a regular event in the computer system. The received regular event can include a time field that indicates a scheduled time for the received regular event. Additionally the technique can include the computer system automatically blocking the scheduled time for the received regular event on the calendar in response to receiving the received regular event. The technique can also include displaying a representation of the for your information event. The representation can include a user interface control that can be selected by user input to convert the for your information event to a converted regular event and to block the scheduled time of the for your information event on the calendar for the converted regular event.

The technique may also include the computer system receiving an additional event. The additional event can include a time field that indicates a time for the additional event. The computer system can determine whether the additional event is a regular event or a for your information event. If the computer system determines that the additional event is a regular event then the computer system can automatically block time on the calendar for the additional event. If the computer system determines that the additional event is a for your information event then the computer system may not automatically block time on the calendar for the additional event.

The technique of may further include sharing the calendar. Sharing can include sharing the received regular event and sharing may not include sharing the for your information event. User input which indicates the for your information event is to be converted to a regular event can be received. In response to the user input the computer system can convert the for your information event to a regular event and can block time on the calendar for the converted regular event. For example the user input may include user input selecting the user interface control that is included in the displayed representation of the for your information event.

The technique can further include displaying a representation of the received regular event in a main calendar display region and displaying a representation of the for your information event in a secondary display region. The main calendar display region can include a plurality of representations of regular events and the secondary display region can include a plurality of representations of for your information events. The main calendar display region and the secondary display region can be displayed at the same time.

The for your information event can include a reminder setting and the reminder setting can be set to provide a reminder of the for your information event. The computer system can provide a reminder of the for your information event in response to the reminder setting.

Receiving the for your information event in the computer system can be part of receiving a calendar of for your information events. The calendar of for your information events can include the for your information event and the calendar can be designated as a for your information calendar in the computer system.

Referring now to another for your information event technique will be discussed. The technique can include receiving a for your information event in the computer system. The for your information event can include an event time field that indicates a scheduled time for the for your information event. The computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time for the for your information event on a calendar in response to receiving the for your information event. Additionally the technique of may include receiving user input such as a single user input action indicating that the for your information event is to be converted to a regular event. In response to the user input the computer system can convert the for your information event to a regular event. Converting can include automatically including the scheduled time of the for your information event as a scheduled time for the converted regular event. Also in response to the user input the computer system can automatically block the scheduled time of the for your information event on the calendar.

The technique of can additionally include the computer system displaying a representation of the for your information event prior to receiving the user input. The representation can include a control for converting the for your information event to a regular event and the user input can select the control.

The technique of may also include displaying a representation of the for your information event in a first display region but not in a second display region prior to converting the for your information event to the converted regular event. The technique may include displaying the converted regular event in the second display region after receiving the user input. The first display region and the second display region can both be display regions of a user interface for the computer system such as regions of a user interface for a calendar application in the computer system.

The technique may further include receiving an additional regular event in the computer system. The additional regular event can include a time field having a scheduled time. In response to receiving the additional regular event the technique can include automatically blocking the scheduled time of the additional regular event on the calendar.

Referring now to yet another for your information event technique will be discussed. The technique can include receiving a for your information event in a computer system. The for your information event can include an event time field that indicates a scheduled time for the for your information event. The computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time of the for your information event on a calendar in response to receiving the for your information event. Additionally a regular event can be received in the computer system. The regular event can include a time field that indicates a scheduled time for the regular event. The computer system can automatically block the scheduled time for the regular event on the calendar in response to receiving the regular event.

The technique of can further include the computer system receiving an additional event including a time field that indicates a scheduled time for the additional event. The computer system can determine whether the additional event is a regular event or a for your information event. If the computer system determines that the additional event is a regular event then the computer system can automatically block a scheduled time for the additional event. If the computer system determines that the additional event is a for your information event the computer system may not automatically block the scheduled time for the additional event.

The technique may also include sharing the calendar. Sharing the calendar can include sharing one or more regular events. Sharing the calendar may not include sharing the for your information event.

The technique can further include displaying one or more representations of the one or more regular events in a main calendar display region. A representation of the for your information event can be displayed in a secondary display region at the same time as displaying the representations of the regular event in the main display region. A user interface control associated with the for your information event can be displayed . User input indicating that the for your information event is to be converted to a regular event can be received . The user input can select the user interface control. In response to the user input indicating that the for your information event is to be converted to a regular event the computer system can convert the for your information event to a regular event and block the scheduled time of the for your information event on the calendar for the converted event.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

