---

title: Caller feedback in mobile devices
abstract: Caller feedback in mobile devices, in which, upon receiving a telephone call from a caller, a user selection of a control is detected, and a message associated with the selected control is determined and automatically transmitted to the caller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071945&OS=09071945&RS=09071945
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09071945
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 856 195 filed on Sep. 17 2007 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Within recent memory mobile telephones have evolved from a rare curiosity into a widely available indispensable business tool and social necessity. Many people have interpreted the rapid penetration and saturation of these products as a general societal advance. As with other supposed conveniences however many people also view mobile phones as a nuisance because they are capable of filling otherwise serene locales or moments of quiet reflection with annoying rings and inane conversation.

Typically a mobile phone rings flashes lights or vibrates to alert a callee of the existence of an incoming telephone call. Faced with a ringing mobile phone the callee generally may select a button to accept the call may allow the call ring through to voicemail or may select another button that sends the call through to voicemail without ringing through. If the callee is in a meeting and cannot accept the call however they often may choose to manually send the call through to voicemail without ringing through in order to quickly silence the ringing telephone.

The caller can often detect that the callee has manually sent their call through to voicemail if fewer than a customary number of rings such as four rings occurs before the call is connected to voicemail. In these circumstances the caller may wrongly presume that the callee is rudely screening their telephone call. In myriad social and business contexts the caller may take umbrage at this supposed personal slight potentially leading to loss of business opportunities and diminishment of the callee s social stature.

A user of a mobile device such as a cellular telephone may provide graceful feedback to a caller that the user is temporarily unavailable by providing a command to his or her device. Use of this command may cause the device to send a predefined message or a message that the user discretely generates on the spot to the caller indicating that the call is important to the user and will be returned. Alternatively the message may inform the caller that the user needs a few moments before they are able to speak and places the device in a mode such that the call is accepted but the caller does not hear the user until the user is ready and able to speak. For example the device may be muted to allow a user to accept a telephone call in a loud nightclub while transmitting a context providing message to the caller that the user is retreating to a quieter spot to initiate conversation. Other forms of feedback and handling of a call may also be provided.

According to one general implementation a selection of a control is detected upon receiving a telephone call from a caller. A message associated with the selected control is determined and automatically transmitted to the caller.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the control may be a physical button or an on screen control. The method may further include accepting the telephone call terminating the telephone call or activating a stand by mode based upon detecting the selection. In the stand by a telephone ringer may be set to off or vibrate the telephone call may be directed to voicemail or a hold state or a device receiving the telephone call may be powered off. The method may also include muting a microphone detecting a second selection of the control and un muting the microphone based on detecting the second selection.

In further examples the telephone call is accepted or terminated before or after transmitting the determined message. Before receiving the telephone call the control may implement a first function and upon receiving the telephone call the control may implement a second function associated with transmitting the determined message. The message may be a short messaging service SMS message or a voice message. A messaging modality may be determined from a modality hierarchy associated with the caller where the determined message may be transmitted to the caller via the messaging modality.

Additionally the message may be indicative that a callee is temporarily unavailable and may be further indicative of a time increment for which the callee is unavailable. A user interface including the control may be generated. The selection may be a manual selection by a callee or an automatic selection. Detecting the selection of the control may further include detecting a selection of the control while a device is ringing. Voice data may be recorded as the message based on detecting the selection of the control.

According to another general implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in a machine readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to detect upon receiving a telephone call from a caller a user selection of a control. The computer program product further includes instructions that cause the data processing apparatus to determine a message associated with the selected control and automatically transmit the determined message to the caller.

According to another general implementation a device includes an input module to detect upon receiving a telephone call from a caller a user selection of a control. The device further includes a processor to determine a message associated with the selected control and a telephony module to automatically transmit the determined message to the caller.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Generally a caller or call originator calling party or A party is a person that initiates a telephone call for example by dialing a telephone number. Conversely a callee or call recipient or called party is a person or device that receives a telephone call.

Telephone calls are generally placed through one or more networks such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN provided by one or more traditional commercial telephone company or by a cellular network of base stations provided by a commercial mobile telephone company as extended in various ways such as by the Internet private cellular telephone networks and other such networks. A telephone call is initiated when a caller dials or otherwise transmits a telephone number or other unique identifier of the callee. Through various mechanisms the network receives the unique identifier of the callee and generates the telephone call.

The telephone call is received when the callee is alerted of the incoming call where the alert provides a user with the opportunity to answer or otherwise accept the telephone call. A telephone call is still received by the callee even if the callee elects to not answer or otherwise accept the telephone call. Acceptance of a telephone call may occur by selecting an accept call button or if the telephone has a clamshell design by opening the telephone. Acceptance may occur by other mechanisms such as by a proximity sensor and or accelerometer that determine when a user has moved a device up to their ear or from a user speaking a command into a microphone. When the call is accepted a microphone and a speaker on the telephone activate to allow sounds to be transmitted between the caller and the callee.

A few seconds later after the telephone network which may include the traditional telephone network private cellular networks and or data networks such as the internet processes the telephone number data transmitted by Brian Sue s mobile phone rings upon receiving the telephone call i.e. immediately or very soon after receiving the telephone call or on the occasion of receiving the telephone call . For the purposes of this example it is assumed that Sue is unwilling or unable to accept Brian s call within a short period of time. For example Sue may be in an important meeting may be driving may be entering a mobile phone dead zone may be speaking to an important client on another telephone line or may simply be mentally focused on a critical project.

When the telephone call is received at the mobile phone caller information such as a telephone number picture or profile information of the caller is displayed if available. For example the network or carrier that the mobile phone operates on may provide a caller identification caller ID or automated number identification ANI service that provides the telephone number and or other data identifying the caller. Using this information the mobile phone may access and display other caller information that may be stored on the mobile phone . In for example the caller information displayed on the mobile phone includes a picture of Brian.

Sue who in this example is in a meeting and cannot be disturbed touches caller feedback control on the mobile phone . Caller feedback control is a physical button such as a keypad button an on screen virtual button control or a soft button. By selecting the caller feedback control Sue is able to immediately silence the ringer on the mobile phone as well as transmit a message to Brian that his call is important and will be returned. For example Sue may type a textual response that will be sent back to Brian such as in the form of a text message. The text message may also be generated automatically such as a previously identified message that Sue has prepared for similar calling situations.

Mindful that her meeting will end in five minutes and that Brian is an important client Sue may also want to send him a discreet customized voice message. Accordingly while holding down the control Sue whispers a voice message stating I ll call you back in 10 minutes into the mobile phone . Recording a short voice message on the fly is more personal and immediate and takes less time to generate than typing a text message. A voice message is a pre stored or dynamically recorded message that is sent by the callee to the caller. For instance when the telephone call has been accepted but the speaker is muted on the callee s side the callee can send a stored voice message across the active line.

If the control is a physical button Sue has the ability to select the control on the basis of feel for example while the mobile phone is ringing in her pocket or purse allowing her to quickly silence the ringer and provide feedback to Brian without fumbling or otherwise requiring her undue attention. Similar touch based activation may occur for example where the mobile phone is provided with an accelerometer and shaking or jerking of the mobile phone can indicate that the user wishes to invoke graceful caller feedback.

On selecting the control the mobile phone determines a message to send to Brian. In this example the control is associated with the predefined text message Y. I . As such the mobile phone sends the predefined text message via SMS multimedia messaging service MMS e mail or any other mechanism to the personal digital assistant . Furthermore the mobile phone accepts the telephone call mutes the microphone and speaker on the mobile phone transmits the voice message over the telephone network and disconnects the telephone call.

A user interface on the personal digital assistant displays the predefined text message to Brian and the personal digital assistant outputs the voice message at time 2 22 15 pm. Thus even though Sue rejected Brian s call Brian is provided with feedback that is graceful timely and personal. Such feedback reduces the likelihood that Brian will be offended at the rejection of his call.

In various configurations or based on data sharing settings the details of the message may by automatically or dynamically selected or modified. For example if Brian were a stranger or untrusted acquaintance to Sue the mobile phone may send a more generally message such as . Such an automatic and dynamic determination approach allows the callee to simply select a control to silence the phone while allowing the mobile phone to select the appropriate message to send as feedback based on various settings and profile information. Such a determination about the identity of the caller may be made using data such as ANI data received with the call which may then be compared to a contacts database for the user such as a database that identifies levels of security to be applied to particular contacts e.g. by labeling contacts as business contacts friends relatives etc. .

Although Brian may be able to detect that Sue has not rejected his call Sue s whispered voice message and the accompanying text message will prevent Brian from incorrectly presuming that his call has been rudely screened. While typical call rejection may provide abrupt feedback because no context or reasons for the rejection are presented to the caller graceful caller feedback may be characterized by the transmission of a message or messages that in certain implementations may place the reasons for the call rejection into context tactfully explaining or presenting information that appeals to the callers sense of importance and dignity. By transmitting predefined messages graceful feedback can occur via the selection of a single control thereby obviating the need for the user to manually enter complicated and time consuming text messages.

As noted above the feedback may take a variety of forms or combinations of forms. For example the feedback may be a pre typed or prerecorded message. Such message may be provide to a caller as the only available feedback message as an automatically selected message e.g. using the social status of the caller relative to the callee or as manually selected by the callee e.g. from a menu of messages displayed to the callee while the call is incoming . Also the feedback may take the form of information entered by the callee in real time while the call is incoming. As discussed above such information may include a typed or spoken message or a combination of the two.

For the purposes of this example it is assumed that Sue is temporarily unwilling or unable to speak with Brian but would be able to speak if she had a few seconds to retreat to a more appropriate location or compose herself for the conversation. For instance Sue may not wish for a nearby crowd of people to overhear her conversation or she may be in a noisy nightclub or in an elevator when the mobile device begins to ring. Furthermore Sue may be driving in a jurisdiction that does not allow for people to speak on mobile phones when driving and may want to have a few moments to pull over her vehicle before carrying on a conversation.

In each of these situations however and unlike Sue would be able to speak if she had a few moments to retreat to a quieter location or wait for a temporary situation to pass. Without the ability provide graceful caller feedback Brian s call may inadvertently be passed to voicemail or Brian may hang up before Sue answers the telephone call. Answering the mobile phone too quickly however could cause Brian to hear sensitive discussions from the meeting that Sue is retreating from or rudely blast Brian with loud sounds or music that are nearby to Sue when the telephone call is initially received.

After the telephone network processes the telephone number data transmitted by Brian Sue s mobile phone rings upon receiving the telephone call i.e. immediately or very soon after receiving the telephone call or on the occasion of receiving the telephone call . When the telephone call is received a user interface is generated on the mobile phone . The user interface includes caller information which in this case is a picture of Brian as well as caller feedback controls to which are respectively associated with the predefined text message HO. I C10 and I

Sue who is in a meeting and cannot be disturbed touches caller feedback control on the mobile phone . By selecting the caller feedback control Sue is able to silence the ringer on the mobile phone as well as transmit a message to Brian that she is on her way to answering the call.

On selecting the control the mobile phone determines a message to send to Brian. In this case the mobile phone checks Brian s caller profile and determines using a modality hierarchy that because Brian has poor eyesight voice messages have a higher priority than text messages. A text to speech converter converts the text message to a voice message. As such the mobile phone accepts the telephone call mutes the microphone and speaker on the mobile phone and transmits the voice message over the phone network. If Brian had poor hearing the mobile phone might have transmitted a text message instead of a voice message.

When Sue is able to speak she selects the control again which un mutes the microphone and speaker and the call proceeds normally. For example Sue may select the control when she gets off an elevator at her destination when she leaves a meeting or moves away from a noise source. In any case by transmitting predefined message telling Brian to hold for a few moments Sue no longer has to reject Brian s call outright in order to avoid the risks associated with prematurely accepting his call. Furthermore Brian is happy because his call has not been rejected and he may assume that Sue made an effort to allow the call to happen.

Furthermore upon being opened or otherwise interacted with the mobile phone or the telephone network can initiate a return telephone call to Brian. In a further implementation the mobile phone includes at least a first control which places a telephone call on hold for a short period of time if selected and a second control which notifies the caller that a more extended period of time will transpire before the call is returned. Each control may cause the phone to transmit a different message or initiate a different behavior by the mobile phone .

In more detail the process begins S when a telephone call is received from a caller S and a user interface including the control is generated S . For example the user interface which includes controls and is generated on the mobile device upon receiving the telephone call from the caller . In another example configuration such as where the control is a physical button the user interface is not generated.

The control may also be a soft physical button located adjacent to the display whose selection has different effects based upon software settings. In this case a user interface is generated upon receiving the call to provide a visual context to the soft button by providing a label that is physically adjacent to the soft button. By providing soft buttons to provide graceful caller feedback it may be relatively easier to alter the messages associated with each respective button because a physical button may also be physically labeled with and may thus be permanently constrained by an identified message.

A selection of the control is detected S . The selection of the control may be detected for example when a physical button or an on screen button on a device receiving the telephone call is selected pressed or otherwise interacted with by the callee. When the ringer on the device alerts the callee to the incoming telephone call the callee may not be willing or able to accept the telephone call. Accordingly the callee may select a control to silence the ringer and provide graceful feedback to the caller.

The control may be selected before the device begins to ring while the device is ringing after the device has ceased ringing or while communicating on an accepted or answered telephone call. For instance if the callee is already talking on an important call when a second caller initiates a telephone call the callee may select the control from a call waiting user interface. In this case a message may be sent by placing the first caller on hold switching to the telephone call of the second caller transmitting the message to the second caller placing the second caller on hold and switching back to the telephone call of the first caller.

A message associated with the selected control is determined S . The selection of the control or each selection of the control can affect the message that is sent to the caller as feedback. Therefore by associating a message with the control the callee may choose a control to select or choose a number of times to select the control based upon the information that they want to share with the caller. As such the user may choose a different control to select or may select a control a greater number of times to quickly modify or scroll through messages that could be sent as feedback.

The message may be output as a signal from the control itself or the processor may query a look up table or other database to determine the appropriate message associated with the control based on any number of conditions. Furthermore where a button is physically labeled with one particular message that may not be changed by the user the message is determined when the single message associated with that button is accessed by a processor.

In one example the callee may not be able to speak with the caller because the callee is stuck in a meeting. When deciding which message they should send as feedback to the caller the callee take many factors into account such as the present time the scheduled meeting end time the personality of the people who are attending the meeting their desire to receive an interruption the importance of the caller the specific predetermined messages available to be sent and other factors. In another example where the callee s mobile phone is ringing during a meeting or other important conversation the user may select the control one time just to silence the device knowing that a one time selection of the control transmits a tactful but general message such as Y. I

In one example configuration each selection of the physical button may be associated with a scrolling operation to increase a time increment associated with the messages such that the first selection of the control transmits I the second selection of the control transmits I the third selection of the control transmits I et cetera.

In another example configuration the time increment associated with a message may be dynamically controlled either automatically or by a user selection. For instance the user can type the number 9 into a keypad and then select the control thereby transmitting a message indicating that the callee will call back in nine minutes. Alternatively the number 9 may be indicative of a level 9 call importance or priority or a type 9 message which may tailor or select the message that is determined. In this regard different importance or priority levels or message types may be predefined for easy and quick selection by the user

In a further example configuration the user may select a setup option to associate different messages with different soft keys. For example the user can assign I message a I message a I message and an I message to four different soft keys.

Any of these approaches or other approaches for statically or dynamically manually or automatically associating a message or time increment with a control may be used. Additionally as in the case where the caller is a telemarketer the message need not be graceful and in fact may be intentionally abrupt. It is not necessary that the device receiving the telephone call be capable of transmitting more than one message or altering or dynamically modifying messages.

The determined message is automatically transmitted to the caller S thereby ending the process S . By sending the message to the caller the caller receives an indication that the callee is temporarily unable to receive a telephone call and provides some context to the reason for the unavailability or indication of when the callee will again be available.

In more detail process begins S when upon receiving a telephone call S a user interface including the control is generated S . When the control is a physical button the user interface is not generated or a user interface may be generated that does not include the control for example to provide a label to a soft button.

A selection of the control is detected S . When the ringer on the device that receives the telephone call alerts the callee to the incoming telephone call the callee may be not be available to immediately speak with the caller. Accordingly the control may be selected to silence the ringer as well as to provide the caller with feedback that the caller will be able to speak momentarily. If the control is an on screen control the callee selects the control by touching his or her finger or using another pointing device to select a portion of a touch screen display defined by the control.

The telephone call is accepted S and a stand by mode is activated S or vice versa. In the stand by mode a behavior of the device receiving the telephone call is changes. The changed behaviors may be preset or set or selected by the user. For example a microphone and or a speaker may be muted until a second selection of the control or a selection of a different control is detected. By muting the microphone the caller does not hear the ambient sounds near the device such as the sounds of the callee leaving a meeting or nightclub or fumbling with the device while activating a hands free kit. In further configurations the stand by mode sets a telephone ringer to off or vibrate the telephone call is directed to voicemail or a hold state or the device receiving the telephone call is powered off. In another example implementation the telephone call is accepted after the stand by mode is activated.

In addition to indicating that the user is currently unable to answer the call the control may also enter a stand by mode if the user needs a few seconds to answer the telephone call such as when the callee is rushing out of a conference room to a quieter or more private location. In the stand by mode the microphone may be muted and a predetermined message may be transmitted such as a voice or text message that states H. . . I . The stand by mode may be deactivated when the user retreats to a private location where they can speak and presses a control thereby un muting the microphone.

A message associated with the selected control is determined S . The selection of the control or each selection of the control affects the message that is sent to the caller as feedback. Therefore by associating a message with the control the callee may choose a control to select or choose a number of times to select the control based upon the information that they want to share with the caller. As such the user may choose a different control to select or may select a control a greater number of times to quickly modify or scroll through messages that could be sent as feedback.

The message may be indicative that a callee is temporarily unavailable and may be further indicative of a time increment for which the callee is unavailable. In one example the callee may not be able to speak with the caller because they are driving in a jurisdiction that does not allow a driver to speak on a mobile phone. In this regard the callee may simply select a physical button associated with an I . P. message.

The message does not need to be predetermined and may be created on the fly such as based on the selection of the control. For instance when the user selects the control or another control associated with a dynamic message creation function to begin and end recording a voice message such as I using a microphone an image or video of for example a nightclub a car steering wheel or an elevator cab using a camera. This dynamically recorded data may be transmitted instead of or in addition to the predetermined text message and may be used to provide additional context to or verify the veracity of the text message.

The message may be any type of message such as a voice message or an SMS message. The message may be predefined such as text message that indicates I or the meeting may be dynamically created such as by whispering the same message into a microphone while the phone is ringing and the control is selected.

The determined message is automatically transmitted to the user S . The message can be transmitted once or it may be transmitted or looped multiple times while the caller is retreating to an appropriate location. This message includes an indication that the caller is unable to immediately communicate on the call but will be able to speak in a short period of time if the caller chooses to remain on the line. At any time while the message is being output to the caller the caller or callee may choose to terminate the telephone call without speaking.

Before sending the message to the caller device the callee device may determine which modality of the caller device should be used. For instance if the caller device only includes a voice modality the caller device may convert a predetermined text message to a voice message using a text to speech module and transmit the voice message to the caller device. Alternatively if the caller device includes multi modal capabilities the caller device may transmit one or more of a text message a voice message and a video message based upon bandwidth manufacturer preset settings user selectable settings caller profile information or detected caller device capability information. These bases generally define a modality hierarchy that describes the propriety and order of multi modal message transmission.

The callee again selects the control or selects a different control when they are willing and able to speak with the caller. When the control is detected S the stand by mode is deactivated S and the process ends S . Upon deactivating the stand by mode the caller and callee may converse normally. The stand by mode may also be automatically deactivated for example after a predetermined amount of time passes when a noise level reduces to below a particular threshold or a position detector determines that the callee has stopped moving or has reached a particular location.

Among other components the callee device includes a processor for processing computer instructions an input module for receiving input from a user an output module for generating output to the user and a telephony subsystem for provide voice or data communication by connecting the device to other telephonic devices such as caller device over the network .

In further detail the input module includes receives input from and or generates at least one control such as a physical button on screen control or an accelerometer based input that is capable of being automatically or manually selected. Among other components the output module includes a display which may also function as a touch screen for the input module . The telephony sub system further includes a text message module that enables the device to send and receive text or SMS messages a voice module that enables the device to communicate voice data a ringer module that alerts the user of the device to incoming telephone calls through audio visual or tactile outputs and a voicemail module that enables the device to interact with and route incoming telephone calls to a carrier provided voicemail system.

Although further description of the caller device is omitted for the sake of brevity in many cases this device will have similar components as the callee device such as a processor an input module and an output module. In the cases where these devices are the same type of device compatibility is assured allowing communication between these devices to be deemed more reliable and further permitting more enhanced functions to be provided or enabled.

While the telephone call is being received for example when the mobile phone is ringing the selection of the soft button would not activate a phone book function but would rather cause the text message I to be transmitted to the caller. Thus before receiving the telephone call the control may implement a first function and upon receiving the telephone call the control may implement a second function associated with providing graceful caller feedback.

Similar to the selection of a multi function soft physical button the control may be a physical button that has an commonly ascribed function at times other than during the reception of a telephone call and a function associated with providing graceful caller feedback upon receiving the telephone call. Upon receiving an incoming telephone call for example the key may be associated with providing graceful caller feedback instead of the commonly ascribed function of outputting a space character.

Because the key the key or the keys are physically larger than most other keys and have a unique shape they would be easier for a user to locate and press quickly primarily using their sense of feel. The same may be true of buttons provided on the outside of a device such as on the device s edges or front face. In doing so the appropriate control could be selected without actually looking at or examining the device allowing the control to be selected while the user is in the dark or while the device is within a bag or item of clothing.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the various features described above is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor or processors to detect upon receiving a telephone call from a caller a user selection of a control determine a message associated with the selected control and automatically transmit the determined message to the caller.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker .

The display displays video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for activating graceful caller feedback. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 6GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit. Alternatively the antenna may be internal to the device .

The wireless or wireline computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wireline or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 6.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wireline connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIEWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wireline connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 6 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . The camera may also be associated with software to perform various functions on captured images.

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU is one of a number of computer processors including. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that detect upon receiving a telephone call from a caller a user selection of a control. The computer program product further includes instructions that cause the data processing apparatus to determine a message associated with the selected control and automatically transmit the determined message to the caller.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE ANDROID operating system APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 8 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime which generally makes up a Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom JAVA compatible virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX as well as unmodified JAVA files .CLASS .JAR . With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment because it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation because register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead because fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and because the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries which generally make up the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs includes a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications which generally make up the MIDP applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a caller feedback application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

The persistent core system services such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager are hosted by system processes although application processes such processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent. The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and caller feedback processes associated with the caller feedback application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

