---

title: Computerized authorization system and method
abstract: A computerized authorization system configured to authorize electronically-made requests to an electronic entity. The computerized authorization system comprises a store configured to store an indication of at least one predetermined electronic authorization device configured to authorize each electronically-made request. The computerized authorization system is further configured such that: in response to receiving an electronically-made request to the electronic entity, an indication of the request is output to the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device configured to authorize the request as indicated in the store; and in response to receiving an indication of authorization from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device, an indication of authorization of the request is output to the electronic entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08800004&OS=08800004&RS=08800004
owner: 
number: 08800004
owner_city: Cheshunt, Hertfordshire
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20120321
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to a computerized authorization system and method. Specific embodiments relate in particular to a computerized authorization system and method used for example for computer network security financial transactions and parental control.

A wide variety of systems are available for conducting electronic transactions in a more or less secure manner over a telecommunications link or the like.

One example is electronic payment by credit or debit card for example. Commercial practices for example are swiftly undergoing a change towards completely electronic purchases and payment transactions. By using various payment terminals and debit or credit cards payment transactions can be performed without handling hard cash at all.

When a user wishes to make a purchase in for example a retail store the card is swiped through a card reader and information relating to the identity of the card the identity of the retail store and the value of the goods or services being purchased is transmitted to a remote back end computer network operated by the card issuer such as a commercial bank or other financial institution . For further identification and security purposes the card user may be issued with a personal identification number PIN and be required to enter his or her PIN into the card reader. The remote card processing system checks for example that the user s card account contains sufficient funds or credit to cover the proposed transaction checks that the user s card account is currently operational and then after enforcing all the proper verifications issues a confirmation signal back to the card reader to indicate that the transaction may be authorized.

By providing an extra identification check by way of the PIN this system helps to prevent fraud but it is still not completely secure because the PIN may be intercepted together with card identification data when being transmitted between the reader and the remote server. If the thief is also able to obtain card identification details for example from a discarded till receipt or through conspiracy with the store employee it is a relatively simple matter to produce a fake card including all the appropriate identification information for later fraudulent use.

In another example with the emergence and adoption of the Internet and related technologies businesses are moving toward electronic integration of supply and financial chains.

To improve the confidentiality of communications and commerce over networks public key infrastructure PKI encryption systems have been developed. Using PKI encryption digital messages are encrypted and decrypted using ciphers or keys. PKI systems attempt to provide a high level of security because messages can be decoded only by persons having the recipient s private key. However it is well known in the industry that a weakness of PKI technology is its susceptibility to the man in the middle MITM attack.

A MITM attack is one in which a fraudster is able to read insert and modify at will messages between two parties without either party knowing that the communications path between them has been compromised. In order to implement the attack the attacker which will typically comprise a software process rather than a person as such must be able to observe and intercept messages going between the two victims .

In order to avoid opportunities for interception masquerading MITM attacks and other forms of electronic fraud the industry had perceived a need for enhanced authentication of the identity of a person initiating an electronic transaction. In the prior art a large number of attempts have been made to increase system security this way. The following is a list of prior art disclosures by way of example targeting this approach.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 754 657 describes a process by which a message source is authenticated by its location using GPS and appends a portion of that raw signal to the data.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 757 916 discloses a technique by which raw satellite signals from a source computer are transmitted to a remote server that requires authentication. A second source computer is employed that also sends its raw GPS signals to the server.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 635 discloses a coded identification system comprising an electronic computer and a specific communications device to generate a volatile identification code by applying a mask code to a pseudo random string.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 231 044 discloses a digital authentication method using the delay between two timing signals emitted by the remote source of the transaction.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 933 413 describes a system with a channel variation component to facilitate a cryptographic key exchange between peer to peer devices in a secure way.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 055 587 discloses a method for constructing a secure transaction that requires a value of an originating Internet Protocol IP address be encrypted and combined with an account password accompanying authentication at a secure transaction web site.

In order to achieve its full potential e commerce must overcome numerous security and related issues including concerns relating to hacker attacks merchant impersonation fraud and transaction repudiation.

Embodiments of the present invention allow users or customers to exercise a more fine grained control over the authorization of their transactions independently and in addition to the typical verifications for example those conducted by a debit or credit card issuer.

Embodiments of the present invention increase the degree of security in online transactions by for example mitigating the effects of MITM attacks and other forms of electronic fraud.

This is achieved by the embodiments of the method and system described herein that intercept and authorize in a collaborative manner any sort of electronic activities conducted over a third party system enrolled in a centralized blocking alarm CBA program.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

By way of example in the computer system and computerized method described herein the person or people who authorize an electronically made request to an electronic entity such as a debit or credit card payment request to a bank logging on to a computer account such as an e mail account social networking account or bank account must input authorization from a particular predetermined or particular electronic authorization device such as a smartphone computer laptop or desktop tablet computer or other suitable electronic device or mobile or portable electronic device . This is an additional security step. This arrangement puts responsibility on authorizing electronically made requests to the person or people who can make the authorization. In this way it is very clear to the person or people that a fraudulent electronic request has been made.

Continuing with this example on an electronically made request being made the computerized authorization system receives the request. The request may also be sent to the electronic entity such as computers at a bank or computers at an internet service provider ISP . However then the request will automatically be paused or not carried out at the electronic entity until authorization is received. The computerized authorization system then sends an indication of this request in the form of an electronic signal over the Internet or other network for example to at least one predetermined electronic authorization device as indicated in a store such as a hard disk drive or memory of the computerized authorization system. That is to say an electronic device to which the person or people who are authorized to authorize the request have ready available access and which is typically identifiable to them such as their own computer or smart phone. The authorization is by a particular or predetermined device. Once the authorization request is received at the electronic device an alarm is typically initiated at the device. This may take the form of an audible and or visual indication being made on the user interface or display of the electronic authorization device. The owner or user of the electronic device may then enter authorization of the request or vote typically by entering numbers and or letters for example a PIN a 5 digit PIN is used by way of example . Once the correct authorization has been entered an appropriate electronic signal is sent from the electronic authorization device to the computerized authorization system. On receipt of this electronic signal the computerized authorization system sends an appropriate signal to the electronic entity computers at a bank or computers at an internet service provider ISP for example and the request is carried out either the paused request at the electronic entity is carried out or the request is sent to the electronic entity and then carried out .

Embodiments of the present invention include a method and system for temporarily blocking electronic activities and collecting further authorization before deciding whether to conduct or abort the original activities the method includes the requirements enforced on the third party service providers and the expected responses in their interaction with the disclosed technique the characteristics of the activities involved in the present invention being mandatory the capability to intercept them since the disclosed method is not intended to notify of past events but to control potential not yet occurred actions the specification of the requests to trigger an alarm comprising among others the authorities to consult the number of endorsements required and the time limit the description of the voting mechanism and its inherent ability to detect and report fraud two different ways to conduct the resolution delivery process and the capacity to deal with ephemeral lacks of Internet access on the client side.

The example system is for alarm triggering notification broadcasting voting management and resolution delivery. The example system includes one or more server devices AT S one or more electronic entities in communication through a network with the third party service providers affiliated to the program hereinafter Sources one or more server devices AV S these form the computerized authorization system in communication with client devices the electronic authorization devices over the Internet the private network infrastructure to communicate AT S devices with AV S devices wherein the electronic software comprises a series of instructions configured for receiving an alarm triggering request ATR on a AT S device from one of the Sources an electronically made request passing onto the AV S devices the pertinent section of the ATR received transmitting informational messages via the Internet towards the client devices of the alarm recipients hereinafter Recipients collecting votes indication of authorization from the intended Recipients and sending their elections over the Internet to an AV S device wherein in response to receiving the minimum required number of votes to reach a verdict or after exhausting the period of time specified in the ATR the system performs the following updating the storage mediums accessed by the tracking services available to the Sources and calling back the triggering Source to inform about the resolution of the action.

In one embodiment of the present invention a centralized alarm method is provided for temporarily blocking electronic activities and collecting further authorization before deciding whether to conduct or abort the original activities the method comprising receiving from a reliable source a description of an activity which is currently paused waiting for the authorization of one or more users enrolled in the program receiving in addition the minimum number of endorsements required from the intended recipients a period of time delimiting the valid interval to cast a vote on the action and the proper channels to communicate the final resolution back to the source dispatching a notification of the alarm to each of the intended recipients and accepting their votes upon proper authentication of their identities offering to the recipients the possibility to veto the action as a technique to report and immediately abort a fraudulent activity computing the votes supplied and determining the resolution of the poll whether by reaching a verdict or by means of time exhaustion informing the source about the authoritative decision on whether to proceed or to abort the current activity 

An auto response mechanism may be provided to automatically cast a vote on behalf of a requested recipient according to certain rules the configuration stated by the user in his or her profile and the characteristics of the current activity.

A tracking service may be provided to allow the sources of activities to query for status updates and resolution availability on their triggered alarms.

Default callback channels may be stored to notify the sources of the final decision when no channel is included in the triggering request.

In another embodiment of the present invention a centralized blocking alarm system is provided to enhance control and authorization on any sort of electronic activities conducted over an affiliated third party system the system comprising one or more server modules AT S in communication through a network with the third party service providers affiliated to the program one or more server modules AV S in communication with one or more client devices over the Internet wherein the electronic software comprises a series of instructions configured for receiving an alarm triggering request ATR on a AT S module from one of the Sources passing onto a AV S module the pertinent section of the ATR received transmitting informational messages via the Internet towards the client devices of the alarm recipients collecting votes from the intended recipients and sending their elections over the Internet to a AV S module wherein in response to receiving the minimum required number of votes to reach a verdict or after exhausting the period of time specified in the ATR a AT S module informs the affiliated third party system of the resolution of the action.

The AT S and AV S modules may reside distributed in several server devices further comprising the private network infrastructure and software to communicate AT S devices with AV S devices in a real time manner.

The system may further comprise an auto response module to automatically cast a vote on behalf of a requested recipient.

The system may further comprise a rule evaluation engine to allow more complex auto vote settings per recipient according to the service provider that triggered the alarm the kind of activity involved the date and time among other criteria.

The system may further comprise a tracking service for allowing service providers to poll for status updates and resolution availability on their triggered alarms.

The client device predetermined electronic authorization device may be a cell phone a tablet a personal computer or any other kind of Internet connection capable device whether a commercial general purpose device or a specialized piece of hardware.

In an aspect of specific embodiments of the present invention there is provided a computerized authorization system configured to authorize electronically made requests to an electronic entity the computerized authorization system comprising a store configured to store an indication of at least one predetermined electronic authorization device configured to authorize each electronically made request the computerized authorization system being further configured such that in response to receiving an electronically made request to the electronic entity an indication of the request is output to the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device configured to authorize the request as indicated in the store and in response to receiving an indication of authorization from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device an indication of authorization of the request is output to the electronic entity.

The computerized authorization system may be further configured such that if an indication of authorization of the request is not received from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device within a predetermined time an indication that the request is rejected is sent to the electronic entity.

The computerized authorization system may be further configured to receive an indication from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device that the electronically made request is fraudulent.

The computerized authorization system may be further configured such that in response to receiving the indication from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device that the electronically made request is fraudulent an identity request is made to identify the electronic device that made the electronically made request and or a user of the electronic device.

The identity request may comprise a signal being sent to the electronic device that made the electronically made request to capture an image of a user of the electronic device.

The at least one predetermined electronic authorization device may be a different device to an electronic device that makes the electronically made request.

The computerized authorization system may be configured to send the indication of the electronically made request to the electronic entity to a plurality of predetermined electronic authorization devices configured to authorize the request.

The indication of authorization may be sent to the electronic entity in response to receiving an indication of the authorization from a predetermined number of a plurality of predetermined electronic authorization devices.

The store may be configured to store the predetermined number of the plurality of predetermined electronic authorization devices.

The computerized authorization system may be further configured to automatically send an indication of authorization of the request to the electronic entity if at least one predetermined criteria are met.

The at least one predetermined criteria may be set by the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device.

The computerized authorization system may comprise a plurality of computers and or servers on a network.

In another aspect of specific embodiments of the present invention there is provided a computerized authorization method the computerized authorization method comprising in response to receiving an electronically made request to an electronic entity sending an indication of the request to at least one predetermined electronic authorization device as indicated in a store and in response to receiving an indication of the authorization from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device as indicated in the store sending an indication of authorization of the request to the electronic entity.

The computerized authorization method may further comprise sending an indication that the request is rejected to the electronic entity if an indication of authorization of the request is not received from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device within a predetermined time.

The computerized authorization method may further comprise receiving an indication from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device that the electronically made request is fraudulent.

The computerized authorization method may further comprise in response to receiving the indication from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device that the electronically made request is fraudulent making an identity request to identify the electronic device that made the electronically made request and or a user of the electronic device.

The identity request may comprise sending a signal to the electronic device that made the electronically made request to capture an image of a user of the electronic device.

The at least one predetermined electronic authorization device may be a different device to a device that makes the electronically made request.

The computerized authorization method may comprise outputting the indication of the electronically made request to the electronic entity to a plurality of predetermined electronic authorization devices configured to authorize the request.

The computerized authorization method may comprise sending the indication of authorization to the electronic entity in response to receiving an indication of the authorization from a predetermined number of the plurality of predetermined electronic authorization devices.

The computerized authorization method may comprise storing the predetermined number of the plurality of predetermined electronic authorization devices in the store.

The computerized authorization method may further comprise automatically sending an indication of authorization of the request to the electronic entity if at least one predetermined criteria are met.

The computerized authorization method may further comprise storing the at least one predetermined criteria in a store.

The at least one predetermined electronic authorization device may be set the at least one predetermined criteria.

The computerized authorization method may be carried out by a plurality of computers and or servers on a network.

In a further aspect of specific embodiments of the present invention there is provided an electronic authorization device the electronic authorization device comprising an input to receive from a computerized authorization system an indication of an electronically made request to an electronic entity from a different electronic device a user interface configured to indicate the indication of the electronically made request and to allow a user to authorize the request and an output to output an indication of authorization of the request to the computerized authorization system the electronic authorization device being configured such that in response to receiving the indication of the electronically made request at the input the user interface indicates the electronically made request and in response to a user authorizing the request outputting from the output an indication of authorization of the request to the computerized authorization system.

In a yet further aspect of specific embodiments of the present invention there is provided a computer readable medium containing a set of instructions to cause a computer to perform a method comprising in response to receiving an electronically made request to an electronic entity sending an indication of the request to at least one predetermined electronic authorization device as indicated in a store and in response to receiving an indication of the authorization from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device as indicated in the store sending an indication of authorization of the request to the electronic entity.

Various detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in a variety of manners.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution.

In some cases well known structures techniques or operations are not shown or described in detail in order to avoid obscuring aspects of specific embodiments of the invention. Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Referring initially to illustrated is the blocking alarm high level behavior according to embodiments of the invention in the form of a flowchart . At step of the flowchart an action is initiated at an external system enrolled in the centralized blocking alarm CBA program. In other words an electronically made request is made by an electronic device to an electronic entity. If as stated by the configuration settings on the third party system the action demands further authorization the client CBA software computerized authorization system triggers an alarm and a poll is set up to decide on the pertinence of the action . In other words an indication of the request is sent to predetermined electronic authorization devices as indicated in a store hard disk drive or memory for example of the CBA or computerized authorization system.

Subsequently when one of the intended recipients predetermined authorization devices emits a vote on the issue sends an indication of authorization of the request typically by entering a PIN into the authorization device the CBA system analyzes the poll results. In the event the minimum number of endorsements or authorizations required is not yet reached though still feasible decision block is Yes the enquiry is kept active and in pending resolution status. Otherwise when the activity requires no further votes to be solved decision block is No the associated poll is closed and the result of the scrutiny is notified back to the source system electronic entity to whom the request was made .

Concurrently a CBA or computerized authorization system component monitors the life span of the alarm. If the timeout period or life span elapsed prior to completion of the operation the system signals a rejection on an interval exhaustion basis which is consequently notified to the originator electronic entity to whom the request was made .

Continuing with the flowchart of once a client CBA module on a third party system receives an authorization response from the CBA server all forming the computerized authorization system the affiliated system electronic entity would act accordingly to either fulfill or abort the activity electronically made request which triggered off the alarm .

The AT C electronic entities may be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination thereof In one embodiment the AT C communicates with the alarm triggering services AT S over HTTPS sending requests properly signed with the provider credentials to the web services depicted in the application programming interface API or RESTful API of the system. In alternative embodiments as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art a number of other network protocols and or AT S API implementations are capable of facilitating communications between the various third party providers and the system.

Still referring to the AT S modules are responsible for all the interaction with the service providers enrolled in the CBA program. In a preferred embodiment an isolated farm of server devices houses the AT S modules accessible only to affiliated systems via private URLs assigned to each of them with further restrictions enforced through IP range firewall rules and or controlled access over a TCP IP compliant virtual private network VPN .

The AT S cooperates with the server modules in charge of resolving the authoritative response on the triggered action the alarm voting services AV S another part of the computerized authorization system . In a distributed environment the AT S communicates with the AV S server devices via a remote messaging platform over a variety of supported network protocols . In an alternative single server embodiment of the computerized authorization system the triggering and voting services interact over some sort of interprocess communication IPC or even in a monolithic approach the logical AT S and AV S components may share the same physical process space.

Continuing with the diagram of the AV S modules inform the alarm recipients or recipients devices electronic authorization devices over the Internet or a telephone network or any other similar communication network . The recipients devices house alarm voting clients AV C capable of receiving decrypting and displaying the alarm notification electronically made request to the final users as well as collecting and transmitting their votes sending an indication of authorization in a secure manner back to the AV S . The client device housing the AV C may either be a tablet a cell phone a personal computer or any other kind of connection capable device whether a commercial general purpose device or a specialized piece of hardware.

The AV C may be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination thereof In one embodiment the AV C communicate with the alarm voting services AV S over an application layer protocol on the TCP IP stack HTTP or the like in conjunction with Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS protocols to provide mutual authentication of the parties involved. In a preferred implementation the AV C are deployed on native applications for Windows iOS Android or any other operating system instead of a browser based thin client approach to guarantee that the AV S certificate message provides a valid certificate chain leading to an acceptable certificate authority CA according to the public key infrastructure PKI of the system.

At step the Source determines according to its business rules and configuration settings whether the action demands further authorization from the computerized authorization system as well as if the Actor supports complementary approval of the activity via the CBA system as indicated by his or her account profile.

In the event the CBA system CBAS intervention is required the Source temporarily suspends the execution of the current activity and triggers an alarm in the CBAS. The alarm triggering request ATR may include but is not limited to the Actor identity information the Source CBA affiliate identifier the code and or name of the action that triggered the alarm a detailed description of the action the CBA identifiers of the voting authorities Recipients or predetermined electronic authorization devices the identities or identifiers of which are stored in a store of the CBAS the minimum number of endorsements required and a timeout interval for the poll. Additionally the ATR may include callback specifications to inform the Source about the operation progress or of its final resolution as well as a stock keeping unit SKU attached to the operation by the Source for tracking or reporting purposes.

Continuing with the diagram of the CBAS upon reception of the request applies the auto vote rules relevant to the ATR according to the configuration stated by the Recipients in their profiles. Concurrently an active component running under its own thread of execution monitors alarms to signal and close those where the timeout period has elapsed before receiving enough votes to reach a verdict typically due to inaccessible or unconcerned voting authorities.

At step the CBAS notifies the Recipients of the alarm by sending them request for vote RFV messages sending an indication of the electronically made request . The CBAS assembles the RFV out of the information in the ATR combined with the Source data in the repository of affiliated service providers. The RFV may include but is not limited to an alarm identifier internal to the system the Actor and Source identity information a human readable name of the action that triggered the alarm a detailed description of the action the date and time when the alarm was triggered and the closing expiry date and time of the voting request.

The Recipients cast their votes endorsing authorizing objecting or vetoing the activity under consideration typically endorsing by entering a PIN on their user interface and objecting or vetoing by selecting appropriate buttons . The CBAS enforces as a precondition to concede the right to vote that the poll is still active unresolved according to the minimum number of endorsements stated in the ATR and unexpired in accordance with the triggering date and the timeout interval specified. In a preferred embodiment voting or sensitive voting i.e. endorsement demands from the recipient further authentication requesting the input of a shared secret such as a personal identification number PIN or a one time password OTP .

Still referring to once a verdict has been reached or the alarm has expired the CBAS informs the Source electronic entity of the results which would act accordingly to either allow or block the action so far temporarily suspended. The Source discretionarily informs the Actor electronic device that makes an electronic request of the authorization resolution.

It will appreciated by those skilled in the art that the method described widely known as phishing is only one way in which a man in the middle MITM attack can be perpetrated. Many variants or similar attacks are possible for example placing Trojan code on a customer PC corrupting a user host file keylogging setting up a rogue Wi Fi access point or gaining access to a Domain Name Server DNS among others.

Returning to the discussion of if the attacker has obtained a legitimate certificate for proxy server and thereby opens an SSL session over secure channel the user experience is perfectly normal thereby confirming the user s falsified confidence in the legitimacy of the operations conducted by the service provider .

As indicated by the customer submits the request supposedly to server the service provider or electronic entity . The man in the middle MITM intercepts the request modifies the request by substituting fraudulent data in place of the genuine details gray circles to black diamonds and forwards on the modified request to the service provider .

In step the service provider issues a transaction confirmation message to the customer which is intercepted by the MITM process and relayed to the customer in step . Again if the payload includes a copy of the transaction details the MITM substitutes back in the original customer transaction details gray circle in instead of black diamond in so that the customer remains unaware of the true transaction that is going to occur.

The aforementioned MITM attack is exceptionally complex to notice until a later statement is received by the user. Additionally since the service provider records show that a genuine customer logged in and requested an action that was validated it may be difficult for a customer to prove that they were not party to the fraudulent transaction that occurred.

However still referring to as the service provider enrolled in the CBA program embodying the present invention it temporarily suspends the transaction altered by the MITM while triggering a blocking alarm to request further authorization from user before allowing the action to proceed.

The centralized blocking alarm system CBAS issues a request for vote RFV notification containing the fraudulent data injected by the MITM black diamonds at . The customer receives the RFV over a secure network channel to a predetermined electronic authorization device either personal computer where the action was initiated or in a separate hardware device such as a cell phone or smart phone being able to perceive the threat and abort the transaction. Hence the CBAS offers user the possibility to detect block and report the MITM attack.

In this example the cardholder is enrolled in the financial institution centralized blocking alarm CBA program and thus the card issuer temporarily blocks the transaction and the CBA client software running in the financial institution network submits an alarm triggering request ATR associated to the current operation. The ATR is typically an encrypted XML string sent over a private secure channel allocated to each of the subscribed service providers.

The CBA system assembles request for vote RFV messages addressed to the proper recipients according to the ATR received and related settings established by the service provider and the users involved. In the exemplary embodiment authorization is requested only from the cardholder an indication of the request is only sent to the cardholder s predetermined electronic authorization device who receives the RFV and responds accordingly by means of the predetermined electronic authorization device such as a cell phone a tablet a specialized piece of hardware or any other sort of connection capable client device . The client component electronic authorization device is preferably connected to the server CBA system or computerized authorization system by data transmission link such as the Internet though non Internet based voting may be handled such as by telephone through the touchtone keypad of the phone or by responding orally wherein the system utilizes voice recognition software IVR .

The cardholder examines in his or her client device the transaction information comprised in the RFV . An example illustration of the display or user interface of the client device is in . The display or user interface is configured to indicate or display the indication of an electronically made request. In this example the request includes the electronic entity or financial institution to whom the request is made in this example www.oceancard.com the date in this example Aug. 3 2012 and time in this example in the format of hours minutes seconds in the example case 13 34 59 and details of the request in this example a transfer of 300 to Mr. John Manson . The user interface also allows a user to authorize the request or vote for it. The user interface includes a keypad display and the user authorizes the request or votes for it by entering their personal identification number PIN on the numerals 0 to 9 on the keypad. In this example a 5 digit PIN is required. Once a user s PIN has been entered the request is authorized by selecting Agree button in the user interface. The user interface includes a Reject button . If the user wishes to reject the request for example because it is erroneous rather than fraudulent selecting the Reject button sends an appropriate signal to the electronic entity to whom the request is made. The user interface includes a Mix it button in this example between the Agree and Reject buttons . Selecting the Mix it button causes the numerals 0 to 9 indicated on the keypad to be randomly or pseudo randomly displayed on the keys of the keypad. This is an extra security feature.

The user interface includes an arrangement to report that the electronically made request is fraudulent. In order for a user to report a fraudulent request in this example in the user interface an image is dragged onto an image of a cell by the user. As a result an indication of fraudulent activity is sent or transmitted to the electronic entity. In response to receiving the indication from the at least one predetermined electronic authorization device that the electronically made request is fraudulent an identity request is made by the electronic entity to identify the electronic device that made the electronically made request and or a user of the electronic device. In this example the identity request comprises a signal being sent to the electronic device that made the electronically made request to capture an image of a user of the electronic device. For example to command a camera on the electronic device to take a picture of the user.

In this example if an indication of authorization of the request is not received from the predetermined electronic authorization device or client device within a predetermined time the request is automatically rejected. The time remaining of the predetermined time is shown in the user interface in this example in the format minutes seconds hundredths of seconds and in this example 0 minutes 49 seconds and 37 hundredths of seconds remain.

Returning to if the user emits a vote on the action or after the period of time specified in the ATR is exhausted the CBA system informs the card issuer of the decision . Upon receipt of the authorization response the financial institution issues a signal back to the card reader to indicate whether the transaction is allowed to proceed or not.

In contrast illustrates a visual representation of a multi vote supervised blocking alarm. The same as in the previous diagram the user initiates an action in a service provider electronic entity that transmits an ATR to the CBAS computerized authorization system . However in this scenario there are multiple voting authorities stated in the ATR none of them being user .

The CBAS sends an RFV to each of the intended recipients and collects their votes on the alarm. Upon reaching a verdict the CBAS transmits the results to the source system which in turn sends a notice to user . In this scenario the collective decision achieved by the voting authorities depicts a technique to enforce regulatory supervision on the user activities in accordance with embodiments of the invention. It is up to the ATR to state the minimum number of endorsements predetermined number of authorizations from a predetermined number of electronic authorization devices required to authorize the action for instance at least one or a majority or all of the recipients predetermined electronic authorization devices .

If a voting authority either endorses accepts or objects the request the system computes the votes cast so far to decide whether the poll is still pending and remains open or has already been solved and should be closed . An alarm is regarded as pending when the minimum number of endorsements required is not yet reached though still feasible. Otherwise the alarm is regarded as solved either by acceptance required endorsements reached or by rejection requirements no longer attainable .

Continuing with the diagram of a recipient may veto the request. A veto in accordance with the disclosed invention is a technique to report and immediately abort fraudulent activities. While an objection is a plain disagreement statement subject to be outweighed by the votes of the other recipients a veto unilaterally bans the request closes the poll and transmits a warning message to the service provider enrolled in the CBA program.

Finally the poll associated to the request may pass from an open to a closed state when a timeout is signaled by the alarm life span monitor according to the interval specified in the ATR. Once the voting mechanism ends the source system is notified of the process results .

Further in another aspect a financial institution may place the ATR in the CBAS when the child initiates a credit or debit card transaction. Still further a TV parental control infrastructure providing a lockout feature on a cable box or other customer media controller may be enrolled in the CBA program and triggers alarms in the centralized system .

Regardless of the source system the CBAS is instructed to send a request for vote RFV to electronic devices of one of the parents or to both of them depending on the behavior stated in the ATR. The third party system controls by properly setting in the ATR the minimum endorsements required whether a single parent acceptance authorizes the action or if both parents must approve it to proceed.

In the second alternative once the Source or electronic entity triggers an alarm the CBAS includes polling directives in its response. In a preferred embodiment the CBAS or computerized authorization system supplies a uniform resource locator URL so the Source can repeatedly issue requests to be informed about the operation progress. Continuing with the diagram of while the CBAS is computing the votes casted the Source polls for status until a verdict is reached and the CBAS includes the decision in the response .

Still referring to the callback resolution process initially attempts to resolve the Source notification channel according to the information included in the alarm triggering request ATR . In the event the current ATR does not contains the callback specification segment the CBAS falls back to the channels specified in the Source affiliated profile .

In a second stage the user being on vacation in an offline environment is allowed to use his or her credit card at any POS since the ATR issued by the financial institution is auto accepted by the CBAS in accordance with the auto response settings previously stated by the user. If meanwhile a fraudster attempts to conduct an operation on an electronic commerce business the CBAS automatically rejects the transaction as instructed by the current configuration of the user.

Aspects of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Any number of computer systems and computer networks are acceptable for use with the present invention.

Specific hardware devices programming languages components processes protocols and numerous details including operating environments and the like are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. In other instances structures devices and processes are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail to avoid obscuring the present invention. But an ordinary skilled artisan would understand that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. Computer systems servers work stations and other machines may be connected to one another across a communication medium including for example a network or networks.

As one skilled in the art will appreciate embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as among other things a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the embodiments may take the form of a hardware embodiment a software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware. In an embodiment the present invention takes the form of a computer program product that includes computer useable instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media.

Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplate media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to information delivery media RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

The invention may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. The computer useable instructions form an interface to allow a computer to react according to a source of input. The instructions cooperate with other code segments to initiate a variety of tasks in response to data received in conjunction with the source of the received data.

The present invention may be practiced in a network environment such as a communications network. Such networks are widely used to connect various types of network elements such as routers servers gateways and so forth. Further the invention may be practiced in a multi network environment having various connected public and or private networks.

Communication between network elements may be wireless or wireline wired . As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art communication networks may take several different forms and may use several different communication protocols. And the present invention is not limited by the forms and communication protocols described herein.

While the preferred embodiments to the invention has been described it will be appreciated to those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

