---

title: Catalytic reaction in confined flow channel
abstract: A chemical reactor comprises a flow channel, a source, and a destination. The flow channel is configured to house at least one catalytic reaction converting at least a portion of a first nanofluid entering the channel into a second nanofluid exiting the channel. The flow channel includes at least one turbulating flow channel element disposed axially along at least a portion of the flow channel. A plurality of catalytic nanoparticles is dispersed in the first nanofluid and configured to catalytically react the at least one first chemical reactant into the at least one second chemical reaction product in the flow channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09295960&OS=09295960&RS=09295960
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09295960
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120323
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC36 09GO19006 awarded the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This specification relates generally to fluids in flow channels and more specifically to catalytic reactions of fluids in flow channels.

Chemical reactions can take place in any number of reactors suited to control the rate and parameters. Reactions can take place in vessels fluidized beds etc. In some instances there is little available operational space to include a separate reactor vessel. Further due to time space and or safety considerations it may be undesirable to store certain reaction products for any length of time. This is the case for example in motorized vehicles.

A chemical reactor comprises a flow channel a source and a destination. The flow channel is configured to house at least one catalytic reaction converting at least a portion of a first nanofluid entering the channel into a second nanofluid exiting the channel. The flow channel includes at least one turbulating flow channel element disposed axially along at least a portion of the flow channel. The source is in fluid communication with an entrance of the flow channel and configured to contain at least one first chemical reactant serving as a first base fluid for the first nanofluid. The destination is in fluid communication with an exit of the flow channel receiving at least one second chemical reaction product serving as a base fluid for the second nanofluid. A plurality of catalytic nanoparticles is dispersed in the first nanofluid and configured to catalytically react the at least one first chemical reactant into the at least one second chemical reaction product in the flow channel.

Optionally the turbulating flow channel element is compressible and resiliently secured in the flow channel.

The turbulating flow channel element optionally includes a plurality of individual thermally conductive turbulator elements secured to one another and nonuniformly distributed generally around a central axis of the flow channel.

At least some of the plurality of catalytic nanoparticles optionally comprise a substantially pure metal or a metal alloy containing at least one metal selected from the group nickel platinum iridium and palladium.

At least some of the plurality of catalytic nanoparticles optionally comprise a substantially pure metal or metal alloy containing nickel.

At least one outer surface of the turbulating flow channel element optionally includes a porous chemically inert and thermally conductive coating.

The optional porous chemically inert and thermally conductive coating optionally comprises aluminum oxide AlO 

The optional porous chemically inert and thermally conductive coating optionally comprises polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE 

A fuel system can optionally comprise an embodiment of the chemical reactor wherein optionally the source is a fuel tank the at least one first chemical reactant includes a vehicle fuel existing in a first chemical form the at least one second reaction product is a vehicle fuel existing in a second chemical form and the destination is a motive engine configured to derive motive power from the second chemical form of the vehicle fuel.

The first reactant form of the fuel for the fuel system can optionally comprise at least one type of hydrocarbon.

The first reactant form of the fuel for the fuel system can optionally comprise an endothermic fuel suitable for hypersonic or near earth aerospace vehicles.

In the fuel system the hydride optionally includes at least one hydrogen charged carbon boron nitrogen heterocycle material.

In the fuel system at least some of the plurality of catalytic nanoparticles optionally comprise a substantially pure metal or a metal alloy containing at least one metal selected from the group nickel platinum iridium and palladium.

A method of providing vehicle fuel to a motive engine comprises adding a plurality of catalytic nanoparticles to a fuel existing in a first chemical form to form a first fuel nanofluid. The first fuel nanofluid is flowed through a flow channel having a turbulating element secured therein. The flow channel forms at least part of a system providing fluid communication between a fuel tank and a motive engine. The flow channel also houses a first chemical reaction converting the first nanofluid into a second nanofluid facilitated by the plurality of catalytic nanoparticles. The second nanofluid includes at least one reaction product includes a fuel existing in a second chemical form that is suitable for use in a second chemical reaction powering the motive engine.

The method optionally further comprises adding or removing heat from the flow channel for controlling the reaction rate in the flow channel.

The method optionally includes adding heat to the flow channel that is derived from the second chemical reaction in the motive engine.

In the method the first chemical form of the fuel optionally comprises at least one type of hydrocarbon.

When the fuel existing in a second chemical form comprises hydrogen H the method optionally further comprises the step of separating at least a portion of the converted hydrogen H from a remainder of the second nanofluid prior to using the hydrogen in the second chemical reaction.

When the fuel existing in a second chemical form comprises hydrogen H and the method further comprises the step of separating at least a portion of the converted hydrogen H from a remainder of the second nanofluid prior to using the hydrogen in the second chemical reaction the motive engine is optionally an internal combustion engine.

When the fuel existing in a second chemical form comprises hydrogen H and the method further comprises the step of separating at least a portion of the converted hydrogen H from a remainder of the second nanofluid prior to using the hydrogen in the second chemical reaction the motive engine is optionally at least one electric motor driven at least in part by electrical power provided via the second chemical reaction of the hydrogen taking place in a hydrogen fuel cell.

As will be explained in more detail below first inlet and second outlet nanofluids A B include a plurality of catalytic nanoparticles dispersed in a fluid base. During transport from source to destination one or more reactants from source contained in nanofluid A simultaneously undergo at least one desired chemical reaction to form at least one reaction product forming at least a part of nanofluid B. In conjunction with the catalytic nanoparticles not shown in transport channel element helps facilitate one or more catalytic reactions of inlet nanofluid A into outlet nanofluid B. The catalytic reaction s can be endothermic or exothermic and configured to proceed at an easily controllable rate during transport through channel . In the event that the catalytic reaction is endothermic or exothermic temperatures inside channel can be managed by respectively adding or removing thermal energy Q from nanofluid . This can be done either by controlling the initial fluid temperature proximate source and or by thermally conducting thermal energy Q into or out of nanofluids A B via channel and element .

Element evenly disperses and controls the flow and thermal profile of nanofluids A B across channel including adjacent the channel walls. This arrangement also saves the space and time of having separate reactor vessels and transport channels. Transport channel with element s can be adapted to any number of applications. As shows a very generic representation of channel and reactor source and destination will depend on the particular application of reactor system . In certain example embodiments system is part of a fixed in place plant. In certain of these examples source can be a feedstock or storage tank while destination can represent the final plant outlet. It will also be recognized that source and or destination can alternatively be the respective beginning or end of one or more intermediate plant subsystems. It will also be recognized that certain elements specific to individual systems have been omitted for clarity. Examples of such equipment can include but are not limited to separators filters valves return recycle lines etc.

In certain other embodiments system can be all or part of a fuel system installed onto a motorized vehicle. The stored fuel or feedstock existing in a first chemical form at source can be converted into a usable fuel or fuel precursor having a second chemical form during transport to destination . Here the second chemical form of the fuel is directly usable by a motive engine at destination to produce motive power. An example of this type of embodiment is shown and explained with respect to .

As shown in element is disposed within at least a portion of flow channel . Element includes a plurality of outer turbulator elements the combination of which facilitate mixing and heat transfer in channel . In certain embodiments element is compressible and can be retained resiliently to the interior of at least a longitudinal portion of flow channel . In this way resilient compressible element can be radially compressed to facilitate insertion and retention. Resilient element radially expands to contact the walls of channel holding itself in place without the need for separate fastening means. In this example channel is a cylindrical channel as is the general shape of element . However it will be appreciated that elements can be adapted to non cylindrical flow channels. In addition element can also include a central wire extending longitudinally generally down its axial center to which at least some of outer turbulator elements are secured. This can provide additional axial stability and rigidity to facilitate insertion and removal of element .

By providing element to facilitate mixing and heat transfer it helps maintain a catalytic reaction in channel converting first reactants in nanofluid A into second reaction products in nanofluid B. In this example element is fabricated from a plurality of individual irregular cylindrical turbulator elements wrapped and or secured around one another. The plurality of individual turbulator elements can be made flexible and nonuniformly distributed around a central axis forming a compressible structure element for placement in channel . The exact configuration of turbulators can be customized to control the reaction rate and thus the rate of heat transfer generation and or absorption in nanofluids A B and the temperature window of the catalytic reaction. Example catalytic reactions are described below.

Nanofluids A B includes a dispersion of nanoparticles in respective base fluids A B. Nanoparticles can have a diameter of less than about 100 nm. A nanofluid suspension such as nanofluids A B differ from conventional fluid suspensions such as fluidized beds as nanoparticles do not accumulate to block flow or settle under gravity during flow transients. As described in more detail below with respect to specific example embodiments a plurality of catalytic nanoparticles are selected and configured to facilitate a reaction converting first reactants in base fluid A provided from source into second reaction products in base fluid B proximate destination . In one example nanoparticles are configured to catalyze an endothermic reaction. In other examples nanoparticles are configured to facilitate an exothermic reaction requiring heat removal.

As noted above element s can be customized to be compressible and resiliently securable in conjunction with the cross section and length of individual flow passage s . In addition to eliminating the need for fasteners this also allows optimization of the combination of element relative to passage for improved control of both heat transfer and reaction rate while maintaining the system in a compact package. A suitable structural basis for a static embodiment of element is a heat exchanger thermal transfer element. Examples of such elements are available from Cal Gavin Limited of Alcester Warwickshire United Kingdom and sold under the trade designation HITRAN . Such elements are typically used in heat exchanger tubes to increase their thermal efficiency. Alternatively element can be rotating element such as a flexible screw auger. The auger and or the flow channel can include polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE either as a coating or as a structural element to facilitate strength and resiliency when element contacts flow boundary . A flexible element can help reduce foaming in certain fluid suspensions such as ammonia borane. These and similar arrangements can increase available heat transfer surface area relative to a bare channel

In this example proximate fluid source shown in a plurality of catalytic nanoparticles can be added to inlet fluid base A to form nanofluid A B. Nanoparticles can comprise a substantially pure metal or an alloy having one or more transition or noble metals. Examples of these metals include but are not limited to nickel platinum iridium or palladium. Selection and size of nanoparticles depend on optimization of the particular chemical reaction being performed as well as the thermal requirements to facilitate the catalytic reaction of nanofluid A B. As described above nanoparticles remain suspended in fluid base A as it is converted catalytically into outlet fluid base B during transport toward outlet shown in . The arrangement of turbulator elements and optional central wire element can help to keep nanoparticles well mixed in the base fluid as it is converted from reactants A to reaction products B. The motion and suspension of nanoparticles in base fluid A B in combination with element also contributes favorably to improve overall thermal conductivity of nanofluid A B further enhancing heat transfer and reaction control.

Because flow channel element extends out to and contacts the edges of flow channel nanofluid A B is continuously mixed as it flows around the various outer turbulator elements and optional central wire shown in . Thus laminar flow is substantially reduced or eliminated at and around flow boundary preventing uneven accumulation of base fluid A proximate destination caused by a lack of catalytic contact. Nanofluids also can be modeled as single phase fluids while traditional fluid suspensions have more complex dynamics and less predictable multi phase models. This and similar arrangements also minimize cross sectional temperature gradients consistent with laminar flow at boundary . This not only improves uniform fluid heat transfer but also allows steady and predictable reaction rate through flow channel by allowing for more precise temperature control.

In an ordinary flow channel the fluid cannot uniformly react due to boundary effects. Any reactants contained adjacent the flow boundary would be less likely to have the reaction induced because it would be difficult to achieve the proper balance of reactant catalyst surface area and temperature. To complete the reaction reactive and heat transfer surface areas would have to be added to the flow transport channel in other ways. Surface area can be increased by enlarging the inner diameter of the fluid channel however this exponentially increases the pressure drop through the channel and would require a corresponding exponential increase in mechanical energy to push the fluid through. A separate reactor for the chemical reaction could be provided but would increase complexity add weight and reduce available space for other uses. This could be problematic in transportation applications such as automotive and aerospace vehicles requiring chemical reaction or reformation of fuel prior to being converted to mechanical energy.

In some embodiments outer surfaces of turbulators will also have a thermally conductive coating so as to minimize thermal resistance. This can further facilitate heat transfer Q into or out of channel by providing direct thermal conductivity between the walls of channel channel element and nanofluids A B. In certain embodiments coating can be a thermally conductive minimally reactive substance such as a metal oxide so as to provide adequate thermally conductive surface area to maintain the heat transfer coefficient. Here coating is applied using a wash coat comprising a liquid suspension of the coating such as aluminum oxide AlO .

It will be of course recognized that other elements typically disposed in a fuel system e.g. separators filters sensors etc. can be included in system but are omitted from for clarity. For example in embodiments relating to conversion of hydrocarbon based fuels it will be recognized that the first chemical forms of the fuel are typically processed or scrubbed of catalyst fouling constituents such as sulfur and lead before nanoparticles are added to form first fuel nanofluid A .

System can be all or part of a small mobile scale fuel system such as in a motorized land sea or aerial traveling vehicle. For example system can be installed on a vehicle powered by hydrogen fuel cells using a concept generally known as hydrogen storage. Here fuel A is stored in a first stable and compact hydrogen dense form. Examples include hydrides such as ammonia borane NHBH which can be catalytically thermolysed in an exothermic reaction. Ammonia borane itself exists in a solid form but can be dissolved or suspended in an appropriate fluid. For example ammonia borane can be dissolved in certain ionic liquid solvents. It can also be suspended in temperature stable oil based liquids like silicone oils. Alternatively alane AlH can be used as a hydride which undergoes an endothermic reaction to release hydrogen for a fuel cell. Other classes of hydrogen storage fuels can include carbon boron nitrogen heterocycle materials that are currently under development. Used materials can be captured from the stream recycled and regenerated for repeated use as hydrogen storage fuels.

Nickel or other suitable catalytic nanoparticles are added to the first base fluid fuel from tank with both being flowed through channel . Fuel in first nanofluid A undergoes a reaction from its first chemical form to release hydrogen H as fuel in a second chemical form suitable providing power to motive engine . Hydrogen as the second fuel form other reaction byproducts and unreacted quantities of the first chemical form of the fuel can form part of second nanofluid B . The Hcan be isolated from one or more other components of nanofluid B using equipment appropriate for the particular reaction then subsequently combined with atmospheric or other available oxygen in a hydrogen fuel cell to generate electric power for driving one or more electric motors engine . Details on fuel cells are relatively well known and will not be repeated here. Catalyst and or other reaction byproducts such as the can be captured from the stream of fuel B stored and regenerated at a later time into their first hydride or other hydrogen storage form.

In another example fuel from tank may be a more complex endothermic fuel for hypersonic turbine or ramjet engines. Endothermic fuels can provide a heat sink function due to immense cooling demands of hypersonic aircraft. In one example the first or second chemical form of the fuel can be used as a heat sink for temperature management purposes e.g. lubricant oil cooling prior to being harnessed for motive power. Thus a portion of the waste energy from the second reaction can be captured and utilized to maintain the first reaction providing heat Q to maintain channel at a suitable temperature to facilitate the catalytic reaction. Conversion of the first chemical form of the fuel in to the second form may include a form of fuel cracking . As one specific example of this approach the fuel is a liquid hydrocarbon specially designed for use in hypersonic or near earth aerospace applications.

Since nanoparticles are dispersed in nanofluids A B filtering and or separating means as described above not shown can optionally be provided to remove the particles from the stream and return them back to the beginning of flow channel proximate first tank . The nanoparticles can alternatively be consumed during the use of the fuel in its converted second chemical form if the fuel is to be combusted with air.

In addition to on vehicle uses system can be part of land or sea based fueling infrastructure for powering fuel cell vehicles. In certain embodiments of this alternative example system can be installed at a terminus or lateral extension of a hydrocarbon transport pipeline substituted for fuel tank . System could then include additional piping containing flow channel element . Nanoparticles shown in and can catalyze the appropriate reaction to convert the arriving or locally stored first fuel A into second form B hydrogen prior to being provided to one or more motorized vehicles substituted for motive engine . By way of example system can be used to provide converted hydrogen fuel to motorized vehicles directly at a fueling station connected to the pipeline or indirectly via tankers or other transport means at a terminal whereby the reaction product s are sent to one or more remote fueling stations.

In this example first fuel A may be a specialized or a commercially produced hydrocarbon mixture such as compressed natural gas CNG liquefied petroleum gas LPG gasoline diesel fuel or the like. Steam may be added to fuel A causing it to undergo an endothermic reforming reaction catalyzed by catalytic nanoparticles in channel . In such a reaction primarily Hand COgases are produced. The COand other byproducts and contaminants are substantially removed prior to fueling and or operating the vehicle.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

