---

title: Message routing and determining a message recipient in a unified messaging system
abstract: A sender is identified based at least in part on originator identification information associated with an incoming communication. A message recipient is then determined based at least in part on the identified sender and one or more databases associated with message recipients by comparing the originator identification information to one or more entries in the one or more databases. The incoming communication is routed to the determined message recipient of a shared mailbox of a unified messaging system. An intended recipient is identified among the owners of the shared unified messaging mailbox owners. Only the determined message recipient is notified of the deposited message, based on the dynamic information derived from each deposited message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08934615&OS=08934615&RS=08934615
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08934615
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120530
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 582 263 filed Oct. 20 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 209 386 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to message routing and more particularly to message routing in a unified messaging platform environment.

Unified messaging is the integration of different forms of communication e.g. email voicemail short message service SMS fax etc. into a single unified message store e.g. a unified messaging platform accessible from a variety of user devices.

Call centers are an exemplary application of unified messaging. Call centers are offices used for the purpose of receiving and transmitting large volumes of requests by telephone or other communication devices. Call centers are used to receive incoming calls to an organization e.g. a company corporation business unit etc. . For example call centers may be used as a customer service center staffed by multiple customer service representatives. Each representative may be responsible for one or more customer accounts and or types of customer issues e.g. account termination maintenance billing disputes etc. .

However a call center may be contacted with a single telephone number or a limited number of telephone numbers. That is an organization may have a single customer service number e.g. 1 800 CUSTOMR that all customers call regardless of the reason for calling. Incoming calls are then routed based on operator routing automated interactive voice response IVR systems or the like. If a particular customer service representative responsible for the incoming call is unavailable the customer may be invited to leave a message in the form of a voicemail. In general these voicemails are deposited to a shared mailbox for all customer service representatives. Similarly a call center may be contacted using other forms of communications using one or a limited number of contact addresses for example using a single common email address such as customer service hypothetical sample company.com .

In a unified messaging platform environment other communications methods such as email and facsimiles may also be used to contact customer service representatives. In call centers emails and facsimiles may be deposited along with the voicemails as described above. The term call center is used generically herein to refer to any organization which can be contacted and it is assumed that such call centers can utilize any form of communication that may be supported by unified communication systems also referred to as unified communications platforms .

Instead of inviting the customer to leave a message in the shared mailbox the customer may be routed to a different customer service representative when a specific customer service representative is unavailable. However as a consequence of the use of a shared mailbox by customer service representatives customers may be poorly attended to and the time to response may be increased. Additionally organizational resources are wasted sorting correlating and handling the deposited voicemails emails and facsimiles.

The present disclosure relates generally to message handling and more particularly to message handling in a unified messaging platform environment.

In one embodiment an incoming communication includes sender identification information. A sender may be identified based on the sender identification information. A message recipient may then be determined based at least in part on the sender identification information and one or more databases associated with message recipients. The message recipient may be identified by comparing the sender identification information to one or more entries in the one or more databases that may be accessible by the recipient. The sender may then be associated with one message recipient. The incoming communication is then routed to the determined message recipient or recipients. A database that maps senders to one or more recipients may be part of and or associated with one or more address books in the recipient organization in some embodiments.

An incoming message may be deposited in a unified messaging platform mailbox that is accessible by one or more recipients. These and other advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Call center includes one or more customer service representatives . . . N. In at least one embodiment customers N are connected to and or are in communication with call center and one or more customer service representatives N using communication network and or communication network . The designation N is used only to indicate multiplicity of numbers and the number of customers N may be different than the number of customer service representatives N.

Customer service representatives CSRs N are in communication with UM platform which includes UM interface UM controller and or UM database . Communication between UM interface and customer service representatives N may be controlled by a UM controller . UM controller and or UM interface may also control and or be in communication with UM database . As described herein in communication with describes connection between components e.g. customers N UM interface customer service representatives N UM controller UM database etc. that can transmit signals and or information to each other using any appropriate protocol and combination of wired and or wireless communication techniques e.g. VOIP wired IP etc. . In at least one embodiment such communication may be through and or with a telephone and or packet network as is known. For example in some embodiments CSRs N may communicate with e.g. access the UM platform and their messages using telephone user interface TUI and or one or more computer programs. Originators of voice or video calls that are not answered by any customer service representative N may choose to leave messages into the UM database of the UM platform as mediated by the UM interface and UM controller . Other message types for example e mail and facsimile messages that may be addressed to the common customer service representatives N may also be deposited into the UM database as managed by the UM controller .

Call center and or UM platform may be constructed using any appropriate combination of physical components and special purpose computers configured to carry out the specific functions described below. Additionally various components of UM platform may be combined and or may have functionality split over various components. For example UM interface may include a database configured as UM database and a controller configured as UM controller . In another example UM controller may be implemented in a program executed at a remote server that controls and routes calls and messages to UM interface and or customer service representatives N.

Customers N are users of the call center using any appropriate communications device e.g. telecommunications device telephone mobile telephone email capable device facsimile machine etc. to communicate with call center and or customer service representatives N. UM platform is based on a unified messaging system. As such UM platform supports voice email and facsimile message types in a unified fashion. For example subscribers to e.g. users of UM platform such as call center may receive and deposit messages of any type in an associated mailbox or associate mailboxes of the UM platform . In this way UM platform is accessed via one or more networks e.g. telephone packet etc. to receive and handle messages based on incoming data. The UM platform may also initiate transmission of messages such as reminder messages.

UM interface is any appropriate server or server like device or devices that can receive information from customers N and can send information to and receive information from customer service representatives N and customers N. That is UM interface coordinates e.g. receives and or stores communications from customers N who wish to access the call center and customer service representatives N. In at least one embodiment UM interface includes a telephone user interface TUI program. In another embodiment UM interface may also include the communication capability to offer its users support for multimedia communication sessions to store video messages. UM interface may be implemented as a computer such as the computer discussed below with respect to . That is UM interface may include and or be a computer adapted to perform the methods described below with respect to . As described above UM interface may be coupled to or include UM controller and or UM database .

Customer service representatives N are local and or remotely connected representatives of an organization e.g. customer care representatives call center support staff etc. using any appropriate communications device e.g. telecommunications device computer with communication software firmware telephone mobile telephone email capable device facsimile machine etc. to communicate with call center and or customers N.

UM controller is any appropriate module that can send information to and receive information from UM interface customers N and customer service representatives N. That is UM controller coordinates communications between UM interface and customer service representatives N in accordance with the methods described herein. In at least one embodiment UM interface may implement an application programming interface API . In another embodiment UM controller may handle processing of messages such as recorded voice and or vide calls e mails and facsimiles. In an alternative embodiment UM controller is a remote web server or similar device capable of performing the functions described below. In either embodiment UM controller may be implemented as a computer such as the computer discussed below with respect to . That is UM controller may include and or be a computer adapted to perform the methods described below with respect to .

UM database is any appropriate database such as the database described below with respect to . In at least one embodiment UM database is a database that can contain data to correlate information e.g. invoice number telephone number trouble ticket etc. related to customers N with an associated customer service representative N. The database described below with respect to is an example of the correlations and or associations that may be used to implement the methods described below with respect to . Portions of database may be associated with or related to or used with one or more address books not shown of call center .

Communications to and from UM platform and customer service representatives N and customers N may be through the analog communication network e.g. one or more telephone networks and or packet communication network e.g. a private local area network a private wide area network and or the public network known as the Internet . The interface components of UM platform to the analog communication network and packet communication network are not shown but may be implemented as part of UM interface in at least one embodiment. In at least one embodiment email messages and multimedia e.g. voice and or data can be transmitted through the packet communication network and facsimile messages can be transmitted through the analog communication network and or packet communication network . Various communications components and network connections are not shown in and are apparent to persons skilled in the art. Communication network and communication network may be implemented using any past present and future protocols and such technologies would not be excluded from the scope of this present disclosure. For example communication network may be implemented using one or more protocols such as GSM wimax 802.11a 802.11g 802.11n 802.3 Ethernet leased lines and other technologies. Communication network and communication network may each consist of one or more networks. For example communication network may include a GSM network for wireless communications to and from one or more customers N one or more wired connections to one or more customers N and have one or more wired connections to call center and the customer service representatives N. Detailed components such as possible additional networks and equipments associated with call center and customers N are not shown.

Computer contains devices that form a controller including a processor that controls the overall operation of the computer by executing computer program instructions which define such operation. The computer program instructions may be stored in a storage device e.g. magnetic disk database etc. and loaded into memory when execution of the computer program instructions is desired. Thus applications for performing the herein described method steps such as those described below with respect to method are defined by the computer program instructions stored in the memory and or storage and controlled by the processor executing the computer program instructions. The computer may also include one or more network interfaces for communicating with other devices via a network. The computer also includes input output devices that enable operator interaction with the computer . Computer and or processor may include one or more central processing units read only memory ROM devices and or random access memory RAM devices. One skilled in the art will recognize that an implementation of an actual computer could contain other components as well and that the computer of is a high level representation of some of the components of such a computer for illustrative purposes.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure instructions of a program e.g. controller software may be read into memory such as from a ROM device to a RAM device or from a LAN adapter to a RAM device. Execution of sequences of the instructions in the program may cause the computer to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry or integrated circuits may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present disclosure. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware firmware and or software. The memory may store the software for the computer which may be adapted to execute the software program and thereby operate in accordance with the present disclosure and particularly in accordance with the methods described in detail below. However it would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure as described herein could be implemented in many different ways using a wide range of programming techniques as well as general purpose hardware sub systems or dedicated controllers.

Such programs may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The programs furthermore may include program elements that may be generally useful such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing the portable communication device to interface with peripheral devices and other equipment components. Appropriate general purpose program elements are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

Database may be collection of data that is stored in a computer e.g. computer of wherein a database management system DBMS may consult the database to answer queries e.g. to select data . Data retrieved in answer to queries become information that can be used to make decisions precipitate actions or displayed to a customer service representative N.

For simplicity database is depicted and described in the embodiment of as a relational database. In the same or alternative embodiments all or part of database may configured according to another database model such as a hierarchical model a table model a network model an object model an associative model etc.

Tables may be data tables as is known in the use of databases. It is understood that though represented in as two tables and any number of tables may be used to store and correlate data. Similarly though depicted as tables tables are a visual representation of a database relation and any appropriate implementation of data storage and correlation may be used. As such tables may also represent data that may be related to or used in conjunction with one or more address books or portions thereof for use by customer service representatives N. Other data that is not shown may be stored in conjunction with the data shown in . The exemplary data that is shown in is used to identify a first customer service representative among the customer service representatives N where the customer service representative is responsible for handling the incoming message.

Tables may be a set of data elements organized using rows and columns which may be accessed via the DBMS e.g. as in a look up table . The columns may be identified by title e.g. Incoming Source Information and customer service representative CSR ID or another identifier. The rows may be identified by the values e.g. 973 555 1111 1 etc. appearing in particular columns. In some embodiments rows may also have titles or other identifiers.

The list of incoming source information may include data values associated with incoming communications to call center such as those made by customers N. That is incoming source information may be a list of telephone numbers facsimile numbers email addresses and or the like of users who have previously contacted call center and or have some other prior association with call center . Accordingly when call center receives a communication from a particular known source UM database may be accessed to determine any appropriate associations e.g. associations with a particular CSR ID associations with a particular customer service representative N address book information etc. . Such associations are stored and maintained in database such that incoming communications can be associated with specific target customer service representatives N.

CSR IDs may be a list of customer service representatives N associated with particular incoming source information . In at least one embodiment each such list contains at most one CSR ID . In at least another embodiment each such list may contain more than one customer service representative N where each such customer service representative N may be identified with a different and unique CSR ID . In the particular embodiment shown in the CSR IDs may be stored e.g. listed along with the incoming source information in tabular form. It may be understood that any other arrangement e.g. arrays connection pathways etc. may be used to associate the CSR IDs with the incoming source information . As seen in the particular customer service representatives N 1 2 3 4 5 designated in CSR IDs are associated with corollary incoming source information . For example incoming telephone number 973 555 1111 is associated with CSR ID 1 e.g. with customer service representative 1 incoming telephone number 973 555 2222 and facsimile number 973 555 2223 are associated with CSR ID 2 e.g. with customer service representative 2 incoming telephone number 973 555 3333 and any message e.g. e mail message from the domain hype1 abc corp.com are associated with CSR ID 3 e.g. with customer service representative 3 and other situations where no rule is found e.g. when the calling telephone number is not available or configuration information for a source information can not be found are associated with CSR ID 4 e.g. with customer service representative 4 . Of course other rules algorithms tables or data structures may be used as appropriate.

For example a sender with e mail address particular originator1 hype1 abc corp.com is associated with a CSR 5 e.g. with customer service representative 5 whereas all other communications originating from the hype1 abc corp.com domain are routed to a customer service representative with CSR ID of 3. More than one originator may be mapped to one particular customer service representative. For example all communications with source information hype2 def corp.com and 973 555 1111 may also be sent to a customer service representative with CSR ID of 1 and all messages from sources with telephone numbers 973 555 2222 and 973 555 2223 are associated with the customer with CSR ID of 2 e.g. customer service representative 2 . Persons skilled in the art recognize that various syntax forms may be used to specify such mapping rules e.g. where ranges of telephone numbers may be specified on each row where string pattern matching rules are used etc. . Such syntax variations are not excluded and are not shown. Any number of source information and customer service representative associations may be specified as allowed by the particular technology and no restrictions on such number of associations are assumed.

Tables may be related in a hierarchical structure in that table may provide further information about table . In the exemplary embodiment of table may include further customer service representative information related to the values included in CSR ID information column of table . For example if a customer N is associated with the incoming telephone number 973 555 1111 from the list of incoming source information that customer is associated with a customer service representative 1 and the information about the particular customer service representative with CSR ID of 1 may be included in table . This information may be stored in table such that any incoming calls communications and or messages may be routed to customer service representative 1 . Additional information about the customer service representative 1 such as name email address pager number address or the like may be stored in table

Additional columns and tables not shown may be used to associate other information with particular customer service representatives and or particular customers as needed. For example an additional column may be used to associate specific messages e.g. using rows for specific message IDs in another table of messages which is not shown with external data e.g. ticket identification information for a particular customer etc. . In this way unique message identification information for one or more UM mailboxes as discussed above with respect to external data identification and or similar information is available to UM platform and or customer service representatives N.

As described herein a database may be considered to include both software and supporting hardware. In this way the database is used to store and retrieve data on storage media. Part of the software for a database is referred to as a database manager which is a piece of software that handles storage and retrieval of data from the database.

Exemplary data arrangements that can be stored as tables and in a database are represented as tables for visual and demonstrative clarity. Of course any other arrangement of the underlying data and or metadata may be used. Data represented as tables and is shown to be stored in database . Database is used by UM to implement the methods of the present disclosure.

UM systems use various other data and databases that are not shown here and are used to implement the UM functionality. The data shown in may be stored in an existing UM database e.g. into an Oracle database as separate tables or stored in a new separate database e.g. another Oracle or IBM database and used by a UM system to implement the methods of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments one or more address books may be consulted to find information corresponding with information contained in database . The address book may be consulted to determine where to route messages addressed from a particular source if such information is not contained in database e.g. in tables . As discussed herein the address book may be stored in database or another location and is used to store information about customer service representatives N and or customers N. For example an incoming email message may be addressed from user1 mail1.com. Though no such entry exists in table the email address may be looked up in the address book and found to be associated with the incoming source information telephone number 973 555 1111. Thus the incoming email message from user1 mail1.com is handled according to the same protocol as messages from 973 555 1111 it is associated with customer service representative 1 .

In the same or alternative embodiments messages may be routed to another customer service representative by way of a separate entry in table . For example if a correct entry exists in table to associate a source information user1 mail1.com with the CSR ID 5 e.g. customer service representative 5 this entry may be favored and used regardless of whether user1 mail1.com is associated with telephone number 973 555 1111 in an address book. Myriad configurations may be used to arrange database to associate messages from particular sources with particular customer service representatives. A person of skill in the art would recognize that the use of an address book in conjunction with rules defined in a table such as table allows for associating all or a portion of messages from an associated group of sources e.g. a company and its various email addresses facsimile numbers and or telephone numbers to appropriate customer service representatives.

In some embodiments the sender s source information is not configured as part of incoming source information but may be determined and used as described below. For example when the UM controller cannot find the incoming source information or any specific rules for an identified source information the UM controller uses the default other rule.

In step a communication is received at call center . The communication may be a message telephone call email facsimile short message service SMS message text message or the like received from a customer N. In at least one embodiment the communication is routed by a telephone or packet network as is known.

In step user e.g. customer identification information is determined by the communication network s not shown . Analog and or packet network s not shown carry originator customer source information.

Step is used to describe how different communication types can be routed through the analog communication network and or the packet communication network . A communications attempt that may be connected to the contacted end point e.g. a customer service representative N subscriber of the um platform for immediate interactive communications such as a telephone call a video call or facsimile call is called a live call herein. Communication network and or communication network route other communication types that are not for such live interactions such as e mails and text messages into the unified messaging platform for processing and subsequent depositing into the shared mailbox of customer service representatives by UM controller in step . If this communications attempt is for a live call the method proceeds to step and various components not shown of the analog communication network or the packet communication network attempt to connect the call by contacting the end point device e.g. such as an analog telephone an Internet Protocol IP telephone a software program on a computer that can acts as a multimedia phone a facsimile device a facsimile sever associated with the customer service representative N subscriber of the um platform .

In step if such a live call attempt can be successfully connected to the customer service representative N by the analog communication network or the packet communication network the method proceeds to step where the customer N can communicate with any available customer service representative N. In step if a live call attempt cannot be connected to the customer service representative N by the analog communication network or the packet communication network various components not shown of that communication network re route the call attempt towards the UM platform the method proceeds to step and the calling customer N or his device e.g. a facsimile device can deposit a message into the communal mailbox of customer service representatives N in the um platform in step where the mailbox is shared by all customer service representatives N.

In at least one embodiment in step the UM controller uses the incoming source information which may be a telephone number email address Internet Protocol IP address or any other appropriate identifier to deposit the message e.g. voice message video message e mail facsimile etc. into a mailbox that is shared by the customer service representatives N. After the message is deposited into the shared mailbox the method proceeds to step . UM controller creates a unique message identification code message ID for the newly deposited message.

UM controller may identify and notify the specific customer service representative in step of the arrival of the particular message. As described above with respect to tables of UM database may be accessed e.g. by UM controller and a particular customer service representative N may be identified. In this way a specific intended message recipient user of the shared mailbox may be determined by the UM controller by querying one or more databases such as UM database and other databases not shown For example if UM controller cannot find the incoming source information in database at first it may consult one or more other databases such as address book databases not shown for other information regarding that source and use the additional information to search for source information in database again. As a particular example if a voice message arrived from 512 333 4444 and an address book database identified the 512 333 4444 number to be associated with a person with email address particular originator1 hype1 abc corp.com then UM controller may associate that message with customer service representative whose CSR ID is 5. If the UM controller cannot find any source information or configuration data regarding a source information for a message the UM controller can choose to treat the incoming message using a default other rule as described earlier. In other words UM controller may query UM database which was further described in as database to determine which particular customer service representative among customer service representatives N is to be associated with the incoming communication.

In some embodiments one or more additional or auxiliary databases are used in conjunction with database and or UM database . For example as described herein one or more address books may be accessed by the customer service representatives N or controllers associated therewith. In some embodiments one or more address books may be consulted to find information corresponding with information contained in database . The address book may be consulted to determine where to route messages addressed from a particular source if such information is not contained in database e.g. in tables . As discussed herein the address book may be stored in database or another location and is used to store information about customer service representatives N and or customers N.

After deposition of the communication the particular customer service representative is notified of the communication in step . Notification may be by any appropriate means such as a page telephone call email email alert SMS message voicemail or the like. In at least one embodiment this notification would include information indicative of the customer identified in step and identification information for the particular message e.g. a message ID . In this way the particular customer service representative N responsible for a particular customer N and or message is notified that a customer has left a message. Deposition of the communication and notification of the customer service representative is discussed in further detail below with respect to method of . The method ends at step .

The logic described above with respect to method uses dynamic data as available at the moment of execution of the steps when handling each new message . Dynamic data in database and other databases e.g. an address book database can be changed at any moment and the change can affect the handling of all messages that arrive after that those changes are made. For example one can add a new entry to table as cookie monster pbs.org to go to the CSR with ID 2. If no such entry existed in database or another database such that no source rule could be identified for this sender cookie monster pbs.org previous messages from cookie monster pbs.org would have ended up at CSR with ID 4 but will end up at CSR with ID 2 after table has been changed.

In step a lookup is performed to determine a particular customer service representative among customer service representatives N . In at least one embodiment the lookup is performed by UM controller on database of and or database of as described above. In other words a specific customer service representative is determined based on some information associated with an incoming communication e.g. message .

In step a notification recipient is identified. The notification recipient is a particular customer service representative among customer service representatives N who should receive notification of the particular deposited message. In at least one embodiment the notification recipient is the customer service representative determined in step . That is a particular customer service representative that is associated with a message that has been deposited in a communal mailbox is identified.

In step the notification recipient is notified of the deposited message by the UM controller . Though the message has been deposited in a communal mailbox e.g. a mailbox accessible by one or more customer service representatives N the notification of the deposited message is sent only to the notification recipient determined in step . In this way a message is identified as being of some import to a particular customer service representative party etc. and only this particular customer service representative party etc. is notified. This differs from conventional notification services that send notification of a deposited message to all parties or only one statically determined independently of the originator information party who have access to the communal mailbox.

In some embodiments in step the deposited message is deposited in a subdirectory of the communal mailbox. The subdirectory may be associated with a particular customer service representative or group of customer service representatives N or other individual or group. Other categorizations and storage mechanisms may be used to identify and associate the deposited messages in accordance with the methods and structures described above.

Though discussed generally above as a generic communication or message in methods and one of skill in the art would recognize that the communication or message could be a facsimile email voicemail picture message or any other appropriate information received from a customer or other source.

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the general inventive concept disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present general inventive concept and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the general inventive concept. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the general inventive concept.

