---

title: Analyzing event invitees
abstract: In one implementation, a plurality of identifiers is obtained, where each identifier corresponds to an invitee to an event. Then a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers is obtained, where each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics. Next, aggregate data representing the values from the user profiles for one or more selected characteristics is generated. Finally, a representation of the aggregate data is outputted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943044&OS=08943044&RS=08943044
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 08943044
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
Event hosts may consider many different aspects of potential invitees when deciding whom to invite to an event.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may include the actions of obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics and generating at the processor aggregate data representing the values from the user profiles for one or more selected characteristics outputting for display on a client device a representation of the aggregate data.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees to the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees who have accepted invitations to the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees who have accepted invitations to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees who have tentatively accepted invitations to the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each invitee to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees who have tentatively accepted invitations to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees who have declined invitations to the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees who have declined invitations to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees who have not responded to invitations to the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees who have not responded to invitations to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees who attended the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees who attended the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event comprises obtaining at a processor a plurality of identifiers each identifier corresponding to an invitee to an event wherein the plurality of identifiers comprises identifiers for all of the invitees who are currently attending the event and obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor a user profile for all of the invitees who are currently attending the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations generating at the processor aggregate data representing the values from the user profiles for one or more selected characteristics comprises generating at the processor aggregate data representing the values from the user profiles for at least one of an age a gender a relationship status or a set of interests.

In some implementations obtaining at the processor a user profile for each of the plurality of identifiers wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics comprises obtaining at the processor from an electronic social networking platform a user profile for each invitee to the event wherein each user profile comprises a value for each of a plurality of characteristics.

In some implementations at least one value for one or more of the plurality of characteristics for one or more of the user profiles is undeclared and generating at the processor aggregate data representing the values from the user profiles for one or more selected characteristics comprises excluding user profiles associated with undeclared values for the one or more selected characteristics.

In some implementations outputting for display on a client device a representation of the aggregate data comprises rendering on a display of a client device associated with a host of the event a representation of the aggregate data.

In some implementations outputting for display on a client device a representation of the aggregate data comprises transmitting to a client device associated with a host of the event a representation of the aggregate data for rendering on a display of the client device.

Other features may include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs encoded on computer storage devices configured to perform the foregoing actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Event hosts may desire to leverage information from a social networking platform or multiple social networking platforms when analyzing information about invitees to an event. Events can be among other things any gathering of people at a specified date time and location and an event host can be any entity e.g. a person or organization that is planning an event. A social intelligence service that aggregates and analyzes information about other invitees from one or more social networking platforms therefore may be advantageous. For example such an application may allow an event host to analyze user profiles of invitees based on various characteristics.

The event host may analyze user profiles of invitees before the event. For example the event host may be able to analyze the characteristics of all invitees confirmed invitees tentative invitees declined invitees and or non responsive invitees. Analyzing the invitees by RSVP status in this manner may enable the event host to invite more invitees with certain targeted characteristics if the event host discovers that disproportionately high or low numbers of invitees having certain characteristics are planning to attend the event.

The event host may also analyze user profiles of invitees during the event for example to consider the demographics of attendees who are currently attending the event e.g. invitees who have checked into the event and have not yet checked out of the event . Such analysis may enable the event host to invite more invitees having certain targeted characteristics if the event host determines that a disproportionately high or low numbers of invitees with specific characteristics are currently attending the event.

Furthermore the event host may analyze user profiles of invitees after the event for example to understand the characteristics of the invitees who actually attended the event. Such analysis may enable the event host to identify types of invitees who were interested enough to attend the event thereby enabling the event host to make more informed decisions about whom to invite to future events.

An application e.g. a mobile application for accessing such a social intelligence service is described below. First a general description of example implementations will be described. Then more detailed implementations are described.

Additionally the interface includes a set of command buttons that allow the event host to view details on invitee status information. In particular when the event host selects one of the invitee status information command buttons the mobile application navigates to a display of a list of the invitees to the event who satisfy the selected status indicator. Thus selection of the Confirmed invitees button causes the mobile application to display a list of invitees who have accepted invitations selection of the Maybe invitees button causes the mobile application to display a list of invitees who have tentatively accepted invitations selection of the Declined invitees button causes the mobile application to display a list of invitees who have declined invitations selection of the Awaiting invitees button causes the mobile application to display a list of invitees who have neither accepted nor declined invitations and selection of the Total Invited invitees button causes the mobile application to display a list of all the invitees to the event.

Another set of controls allows the event host to view information regarding current attendance at an event. A Currently Checked In command button causes the mobile application to display a list of user profiles of invitees who are presently checked in to the event e.g. invitees who have checked into the event and have not yet checked out of the event . As described in more detail below the mobile application can access an event management service executing on a server that maintains a checked in and checked out status for the invitees. Finally a Who Showed Up command button causes the mobile application to display a list of user profiles of invitees who attended the event. This information may also be obtained from the event management service. In some implementations a number of invitees who are currently checked into the event may be displayed in connection with Currently Checked In command button and a number of invitees who attended the event may be displayed in connection with Who Showed Up command button

The analysis command button allows the event host to analyze various characteristics of the invitees to the event e.g. based on information about the invitees available from one or more social networking platforms . In particular the analysis command button causes the mobile application to present an interface that displays demographic information relating to the invitees that satisfy the respective invitee status e.g. demographic information from the user profiles of invitees who have accepted invitations when the event host selects the Confirmed invitees button demographic information from the user profiles of invitees who have tentatively accepted invitations when the event host selects the Maybe invitees button demographic information from the user profiles of invitees who have declined invitations when the event host selects the Declined invitees button demographic information from the user profiles of invitees who have neither accepted nor declined invitations when the event host selects the Awaiting invitees button and demographic information from the user profiles of all invitees when the event host selects the Total Invited invitees button . Sample screenshots of various analyses are discussed below.

The search input box permits the event host to perform a text search which may locate for example invitees to the event who have names matching the search term and or invitees to the event who have interests e.g. interests recorded with one or more social networking platforms matching the search term. The search results can then be analyzed with reference to various characteristics as described below. For example if the event host entered a specific interest e.g. MicroStrategy then only invitees to the event who have identified MicroStrategy as an interest in their user profiles may be analyzed. If the event host entered a name or portion of a name e.g. Smith then only invitees to the event who have Smith as a name in their user profiles may be analyzed.

The representations correspond to user profiles for nine confirmed invitees to the event e.g. Tony Tom Alan Mary Jane John Adam Bart and Mel . While only nine representations are shown for exemplary purposes any number of representations could be displayed. If the representations do not fit entirely on the display of the client device the interface may include a scrollable view e.g. a vertical or horizontal scrolling viewport or a paging mode that restricts scrolling to a single screen of representations at a time so that the event host can browse through any number of representations. For example as illustrated in representations of user profiles for only nine confirmed invitees to the event are shown. However twenty one invitees have confirmed that they will be attending the event. Therefore the interface may include a scrollable view a paging mode etc. to enable the event host to browse the representations of all twenty one invitees who have confirmed that they will be attending the event. The representations may include icons photos or other graphical representations for all the confirmed invitees to the event and also may include names associated with each member. Similar user interfaces would be displayed in response to selection of the Maybe invitees button the Declined Invitees button the Awaiting invitees button and the Total Invited invitees button the Currently Checked In button and the Who Showed Up button except that the representations of user profiles would only include user profiles that satisfy the respective invitee status.

When the event host selects analysis command button the mobile application navigates to the analysis screens illustrated in . On these screens the mobile application is configured to enable the event host to select between for example four analysis modes by inputting a gesture e.g. swiping slider shown in . The first position of the slider causes the application to display a user interface as shown in that provides an analysis of gender vs. relationship status for confirmed invitees. The second position of the slider causes the application to display a user interface as shown in that provides an analysis of ages of confirmed invitees. The third position of the slider causes the application to display a user interface as shown in that provides an analysis e.g. using a parallel sets visualization of distributions of genders relationship statuses and ages of confirmed invitees. The fourth position of the slider causes the application to display a user interface as shown in that provides an analysis of interests of confirmed invitees. While four analysis modes for analyzing different characteristics of invitees to the event are shown for example purposes any suitable number of modes and analyses could be implemented.

Referring specifically now to shows a screenshot of a sample user interface showing an analysis of gender e.g. Male or Female vs. relationship status e.g. Single or Non Single for confirmed invitees. The user interface includes a caption indicating that the screen shows Demographics information and a caption indicating that the information is Confirmed Guest Gender vs. Relationship Status in particular. The chart illustrates gender and relationship status of confirmed invitees. For this example the chart includes a box in the center indicating on the left side of the box that 14 male invitees e.g. 67 of the 21 confirmed invitees have confirmed that they will attend and on the right side of the box that 7 female invitees e.g. 33 of the 21 confirmed invitees have confirmed that they will attend. Also the chart visually indicates that more of both the male and female confirmed invitees are Single than Non Single. In particular the chart includes a bar graph on the Male portion side that is longer in the Single dimension than in the Non Single dimension where the total length of the Male bar chart in both the Single and Non Single dimensions is proportional to the number of confirmed Male invitees. Likewise the chart includes a bar graph on the Female portion side that is longer in the Single dimension than in the Non Single dimension where the total length of the Female bar chart in both the Single and Non Single dimensions is proportional to the number of confirmed Female invitees. As shown the bar chart for confirmed Female invitees is shorter in total length than the bar chart for confirmed Male invitees because there are fewer total confirmed female invitees than confirmed male invitees. The chart therefore provides an event host with a quick and readily understandable visual indication of the proportion of male vs. female and single vs. non single confirmed invitees.

Between the dimension bars are ribbons that connect categories and show relative distributions. These ribbons illustrate how combinations of categories are distributed and how a particular subset can be further subdivided. For example the male invitees are represented with ribbons having a dash dot line pattern and the female invitees are represented with ribbons having a dash line pattern in .

Advantageously the ribbons may provide insights to the event host regarding relative distributions of confirmed invitees characteristics along three dimensions. For example the ribbons from the top dimension bar extending from the male line to the middle dimension bar indicate that a greater proportion of the confirmed male invitees are single than non single. In particular the ribbon extending from the Male line of the top dimension bar to the Single line of the middle dimension bar is wider than the ribbon extending from the Male line of the top dimension bar to the Non Single line of the middle dimension bar. Likewise the ribbons from the top dimension bar extending from the female line to the middle dimension bar indicate that a greater proportion of the confirmed female invitees are single than non single. In particular the ribbon extending from the Female line of the top dimension bar to the Single line of the middle dimension bar is wider than the ribbon extending from the Female line of the top dimension bar to the Non Single line of the middle dimension bar.

The chart also shows relative distributions of confirmed male and female invitees based on their relationship status. For example the ribbons from the middle dimension bar extending from the single line to the bottom dimension bar indicate that all of the confirmed invitees who are under 21 are single males. In particular the only ribbon extending to the 

The word cloud may be generated using any suitable technique. For example the font size of a term in the word cloud may be determined by its incidence. In particular for a word cloud of interests the font size of a term may correspond to the relative number of instances for that term in the user profiles of the current set of invitees e.g. the confirmed invitees for this example . In some implementations the font size may be specified directly using a predefined step size from a minimum to a maximum font size. For example a single occurrence of a term could cause the font size for that term to be the minimum size e.g. 8 pt. two occurrences could cause the font size to be the minimum plus one e.g. 9 pt. three occurrences could cause the font size to be the minimum plus two e.g. 10 pt. . While a step size of one is described for example purposes any suitable step size could be used such as for example 2 3 or 4. In other implementations a scaling of font sizes may be made. For example in a linear normalization the weight tof a term is mapped to a size scale of 1 through f where tand tspecify the range of available weights. Equation 1 below shows an example of such a scaling technique.

The example word cloud shows the relative frequency of interests associated with the user profiles of the confirmed invitees. Thus the confirmed invitees collectively have a high interest in the Georgia Tech Alumni Association Alert and Poogan s Porch as indicated by these terms relatively larger font. These terms may occur multiple times as interests in the user profiles of the confirmed invitees whereas the remaining terms rendered in a smaller font may occur as an interest in only a single user profile of the confirmed invitees.

Although the analyses of different characteristics of invitees to an event illustrated and described above in connection with relate to confirmed invitees of the event the same analyses can be performed for the Maybe invitees the Declined invitees the Awaiting invitees the Total Invited invitees the Currently Checked in invitees and or the Who Showed Up invitees.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace and Orkut are just a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be launched in the future. The techniques described herein for handling data available within an electronic social networking platform are widely applicable and may be applied to data available within any relevant electronic social networking platform.

Electronic social networking platforms frequently enable users to establish user profiles by registering and receiving a unique or otherwise identifying identifier from the platform. A user profile represents the user on the social networking platform and may include a variety of information about the user. Such a user profile may include among other information information about the user s name hometown current residence age gender relationship status educational background and or professional background. Additionally or alternatively the user profile may include records of various different interests of the user. In some implementations the user profile may include information on membership in various groups. In some implementations the user profile may include an electronic address e.g. an email address or mobile phone number that can be used to contact the user associated with the user profile.

Social networking platforms also permit users to establish connections with other users of the social networking platform e.g. by linking user profiles to one another within the social networking platform . These connections between users may reflect relationships between the underlying human users who correspond to the user profiles. For example a connection between two user profiles within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users who correspond to the user profiles.

In some electronic social networking platforms a user profile may be able to unilaterally form a connection with another user profile. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user profile to form a connection to a second user profile simply by specifying a desire to form a connection to the second user profile and without requiring approval of the connection by the second user profile. Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user profiles may be a bilateral process. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user profile specifies a desire to form a connection to a second user profile the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection only after the second user profile approves the formation of the connection between the first user profile and the second user profile.

The connections formed between individual user profiles within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user profiles are represented by nodes and connections between user profiles are represented by edges connecting the nodes. Such a graph of interconnected user profiles may change dynamically in time as new user profiles join and old user profiles quit the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections are formed and old connections are dissolved. Proximity between two user profiles of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of degrees of separation between the two user profiles. For example proximity between two user profiles of an electronic social networking platform may be calculated as the fewest number of edges required to form a path between the two user profiles within the graph representing the connections between user profiles of the electronic social networking platform.

A user profile of an electronic social networking platform may form a social network within the electronic social networking platform by forming connections to other user profiles of the electronic social networking platform. In some cases the social network of a particular user profile of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user profiles to whom the particular user profile is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user profile of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user profiles that are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user profile within the graph.

In addition to enabling a user profile to establish connections to other user profiles and thereby form a social network some electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user profile to divide the user profile s social network into one or more subsets of user profiles who may for example share one or more characteristics of significance to the particular user profile. For example a particular user profile of an electronic social networking platform may wish to define subsets of user profiles within the particular user profile s social network that reflect other user profiles with whom the particular user profile has a familial relationship a professional relationship a social relationship and so forth. For ease of reference such defined subsets of a particular user s social network may be referred to herein as Friendlists. 

Electronic social networking platforms commonly facilitate sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between user profiles and other user profiles who are part of their social networks. In some implementations an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user profile to access more detailed profile information about the other user profiles who are part of the particular user profile s social network than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user profile to access about user profiles who are not part of the particular user profile s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user profile to access information about the hometowns and or the current cities of residence of other user profiles who are part of the particular user profile s social network but the electronic social networking platform may not allow the particular user profile to access this same information for user profiles who are not part of the particular user profile s social network.

Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide communications conduits between a particular user profile and the other user profiles who are part of the particular user profile s social network that the electronic social networking platform does not otherwise provide between the particular user profile and other user profiles who are not part of the particular user profile s social network.

Some social networking platforms may enable user profiles to record endorsements of various different types of interests with the social networking platforms. Examples of such interests may include among others local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions sports teams or clubs brands or products artists bands or public figures forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities. Interests may be manifested within the electronic social networking platforms as so called pages. These pages may be maintained by one or more representatives of the interests or enterprises represented by the pages. In addition among other features these pages may provide information about the interests or enterprises the pages represent.

In some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed by a particular user profile may be shared with or otherwise made available to other user profiles of the electronic social networking platform. In particular in some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed by a particular user profile may be shared with other user profiles who are members of the particular user profile s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may provide user profiles who are members of a particular user profile s social network with access to a detailed user profile page that includes among other information indications of interests that the particular user profile has endorsed within the electronic social networking platform.

Some electronic social networking platforms may also provide event management services. Among other features these event management services often enable user profiles to generate events invite other user profiles to attend such events and manage guest lists for the events e.g. manage RSVPs to the events from the invited user profiles indicating that the user profiles will be attending will not be attending tentatively will be attending etc. .

In particular some social networking platforms may enable user profiles to generate event objects within the electronic social networking platforms that represent events that they are hosting. After creating event objects for such events user profiles may be provided with mechanisms for inviting other user profiles to the events. Furthermore a connection may be established between an event object and a user profile within an electronic social networking platform as a result of the user profile being invited to the event and or as a result of the user profile registering with the electronic social networking platform that the user profile will be attending the event. Such a connection between a user profile object and an event object may be referred to herein as event connections.

There may be various different types of event connections between user profiles and event objects in a social networking platform. For example one type of an event connection between a user profile and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user profile is the host of the event. Another type of an event connection between a user profile and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user profile has been invited to the event. Still another type of event connection between a user profile and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user profile has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user profile will be attending the event. Yet another type of event connection between a user profile and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user profile has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user profile will not be attending the event. Still one more type of event connection between a user profile and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user profile has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user profile tentatively will be attending the event.

In some social networking platforms an event object also may be manifested as an event page that provides information about the event the object represents e.g. date time and location information for the event and the electronic social networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the event e.g. the hosts to share information and exchange electronic communications with user profiles who have been invited to the event via the event page. 

Furthermore some social networking platforms may enable users to establish connections with independent applications that leverage the social networking platforms for example by granting the independent applications authorization to access extract and or create data on the electronic social networking platform on their behalf. Social networking platforms also may provide an application programming interface API that enables the independent applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform. These APIs may be for example web services e.g. Representational State Transfer REST or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP services operated by the social networking platform.

As an example of an independent application a social intelligence service that is external to an electronic social networking platform may extract content from the electronic social networking platform that is available to different user profiles of the electronic social networking platform. Thereafter the social intelligence service may process the extracted content and represent the extracted content and or generate reports about the extracted content so as to enable the individual user profiles to glean better intelligence from the large volume of content that is available to them within the electronic social networking platform.

For example a social intelligence service may extract information that is relevant to a user planning to host an event e.g. genders ages relationship statuses interests hometowns current residences and or membership in groups of other user profiles who are members of the particular user profile s social network and represent the extracted information and or generate reports about the extracted information so as to enable the event host to glean better insights regarding who should be invited.

Additionally or alternatively a social intelligence service may extract event information that is relevant to a particular user of an electronic social networking platform e.g. information about events to which the user profile has received invitations through the electronic social networking platform and information about events to which members of the user profile s social network have received invitations through the electronic social networking platform and represent the extracted event information and or generate reports about the extracted event information so as to enable the particular user profile to glean better intelligence about the event information than the particular user profile otherwise may be able to do within the electronic social networking platform.

A social intelligence service also may extract endorsement information that is relevant to a particular user profile of an electronic social networking platform e.g. information about interests endorsed by other user profiles who are members of the particular user profile s social network and represent the extracted endorsement information and or generate reports about the extracted endorsement information so as to enable the particular user profile to glean better intelligence about the endorsement information than the particular user profile otherwise may be able to do within the electronic social networking platform.

As another example of an independent application an event management service that is external to an electronic social networking platform may create and manage events e.g. event objects on behalf of event hosts who are users of the electronic social networking platform. These events can be connected to different user profiles that are within the social network of the event host on the electronic social networking platform. Thereafter the event management service may write event data back to the generated events.

For example a host of an event can access an event management service via for example a mobile application on a client device. To create an event the event host can enter various information about the event such as for example an event name one or more photos associated with the event a date and time of the event a location of the event a description of the event and or one or more invitees to the event. The event host may select from among various privacy setting for the event. Once the event information has been entered the event management service can access an API for the social networking platform to create a corresponding event object.

Subsequently as described above with reference to the event host can view information about invitees through the mobile application. In particular the mobile application can retrieve information about the created event object from the event management service which retrieves the information via an API for the social networking platform. The retrieved information can be for example information on the status of invitees e.g. confirmed maybe declined awaiting and total invited .

In addition as described above with reference to the event host can analyze characteristics of the invitees to the event with the mobile application. In particular the mobile application may obtain information from the user profiles of invitees via the social intelligence service which accesses the API of the social networking platform for example to retrieve user profiles of invitees to the event.

The different examples of electronic social networking platforms described above may provide various different types of user interfaces for interacting with the electronic social networking platforms. In one particular example an electronic social networking platform may provide multiple different user interfaces to users to enable the users to interact with the underlying electronic social networking platform.

Initially in response to receiving a command from the event host via the client device to view invitees to an event the event management service executing on the server retrieves an event object e.g. corresponding to a particular event identified by the event host . In particular the event management service may access an API of the social networking platform retrieve the desired information and then transmit the information to the client device . The event host can then view the retrieved information about invitees through the mobile application. The retrieved information can be for example information on the status of invitees to the event e.g. confirmed maybe declined awaiting and total invited .

Subsequently in response to receiving a command from the event host via the client device to analyze the invitees or some subset of the invitees to an event e.g. confirmed maybe declined awaiting and total invited the event management service executing on the server obtains characteristics e.g. gender age relationship status interests current residence etc. of the user profiles in the subset. For example the social intelligence service may access an API of the social networking platform retrieve the desired characteristics of the user profiles corresponding to the invitees and then transmit the characteristics to the client device . The event host can then view and analyze the retrieved characteristics of the invitees through the mobile application as described above with reference to .

In some implementations the event host may also initiate transmission of invitations to the invitees. For example the event host may send a command to send invitations to the event management service executing on the server . In response the event management service may generate communications e.g. invitations to the client devices of the users respectively whom the event host instructed the event management service to send invitations. In some implementations the invitations may be sent from the social networking platform at the direction of the event management service . In other implementations the invitations may be sent directly from the event management service .

The client device operated by the event host and the client devices operated by users respectively may be any type of computing devices capable of communicating with the server via the network including but not limited to mobile phones smart phones PDAs music players e book readers tablet computers laptops or desktop computers or other stationary or portable devices that include one or more processors and non transitory computer readable storage media. Applications e.g. mobile applications executing on the client devices provide an interface through which the event host and users can select invitees and analyze characteristics of the selected invitees. In some implementations the mobile applications may also provide the capability to create manage and or view invitations to an event. The mobile applications can be written in any suitable programming language such as for example Objective C C Java etc. running on any suitable operating system e.g. Windows 8 iOS or Android.

The server may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which server is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the server . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which server is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

The server may host an event management service. As such server may be configured to create manage and retrieve event data from one or more electronic social networking platforms e.g. electronic social networking platform . For example server may be configured to access an API to obtain event objects from the electronic social networking platform at the request of the event host .

In some implementations the event management service may also provide the capability for the event host to track attendance status of invitees to the event. Such tracking may utilize check in and check out functionality. In some implementations an invitee may check in and or check out of an event using a mobile device based invitation for the event.

For example an invitee may check in and or check out of an event by presenting an optical machine readable representation of an invitation to the event e.g. a quick response QR code displayed on the invitee s mobile device for scanning to an appropriate scanning device. shows a screenshot of an example of one such invitation to an event. The invitation includes a caption showing the title of the invitation and an invitation details box describing specific details of the event. In particular the details box shows the date and time of the event e.g. Friday Jun. 29 2012 6 30 PM the event location e.g. 100 Main St. Anytown USA a description of the event e.g. This will be the best birthday party ever and a message sent by the event host e.g. Hope you can make it . The invitation also includes the name of the invitee e.g. Tony Smith . Additionally as described in greater detail below the invitation may include a representation of the invitation that can be validated by an authority involved in regulating attendance at the event e.g. a door manager to authorize the invitee to enter the event. For example the representation of the invitation may be a QR code. When the client device of the invitee displays the QR code the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event can operate a processing system to scan the QR code from the display of the client device. The processing system can then validate the invitation by communicating information decoded from the QR code e.g. an invitation identifier and an invitee identifier to a server and receiving a response indicating whether the invitation is valid.

Additionally or alternatively an invitee may check in and or check out of an event by providing a phrase code corresponding to the event communicated to the invitee s mobile device to an authority involved in regulating attendance to the event by providing an alphanumeric code corresponding to the event communicated to the invitee s mobile device to the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event by using the invitee s mobile device to access a representation of an invitation to the event within a predetermined distance of the event etc. An invitee also may manually check in and or check out of the event.

The event management service may track the attendance status of the invitees for example by updating a table stored at the server or accessible to the server with the status of the invitee for the event. When an invitee is currently checked in to an event the corresponding user profile will be included in the subset of user profiles retrieved when the event host selects the Currently Checked In command button as described above in reference to . When an invitee checks in the server may also update a table to indicate that the invitee has attended the event. Subsequently the corresponding user profile will be included in the subset of user profiles retrieved when the event host selects the Who Showed Up command button as described above in reference to .

In more detail an invitee may check in and or check out of an event by providing a phrase code corresponding to the event to an authority involved in regulating access to the event. As referred to herein a phrase code may be a sequence of two or more words selected from one or more dictionaries of words that need not form a grammatical construct. A dictionary as used herein is a data structure in which index values identify words. A given dictionary may include many thousands of different words. In operation applications for phrase code validation executing on the client device and a processing system of the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event can access a common set of dictionaries for generating phrases so that when the applications reference the same index values in the same dictionaries at substantially the same time they can select the same phrases. Thus the processing system of the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event displays the same phrase as the client devices which enables the authority involved in regulating access to the event to validate the phrases at the client device . When the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event validates a phrase presented by an invitee the processing system of the authority can notify the server that the invitee is checked in to the event. If the invitee is already checked in then the server can update the invitee s status to checked out. 

An invitee may also check in and or check out of an event using an optical machine readable representation of an invitation to the event. As referred to herein an optical machine readable representation may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. For example an optical machine readable representation may be a bar code or a quick response code QR code . In some implementations the optical machine readable representations may encode credential identifiers and user identifiers. In other implementations the optical machine readable representations may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers and or user identifiers. In operation the client device may receive optical machine readable representations of invitations to the event from the server and or may generate optical machine readable representations of invitations to the event given credential identifiers and user identifiers. The client device can then output optical machine readable representations of invitations to the display of the client devices . An authority involved in regulating attendance to the event can operate a processing system to scan the optical machine readable representations from the displays of the client devices . The processing system can then validate the invitations by communicating information decoded from the optical machine readable representations e.g. a credential identifier and a user identifier to the server and receiving responses indicating whether the invitations are valid. When an invitee s optical machine readable representation of an invitation is validated the server may record the invitee as being checked in to the event if the invitee has not already checked in to the event. Alternatively if the invitee already is checked in the server may update the invitee s status to checked out responsive to a successful validation of the invitee s optical machine readable representation of the invitation.

An invitee may also check in and or check out of an event by providing an alphanumeric representation of an invitation to the event. As referred to herein an alphanumeric representation may be a sequence of letters and or numbers that is associated with an event and in some implementations a particular invitee. In some instances a given alphanumeric representation will only be valid for a certain time period. In operation applications for alphanumeric code validation execute on the client device and the processing system of the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event. The server associates an alphanumeric representation of an invitation with an invitee and an event and distributes the alphanumeric representation to the invitee s client device . When the invitee presents an alphanumeric representation e.g. a stored numeric representation from the server to the authority involved in regulating attendance to the event for example by making an utterance including the alphanumeric value or displaying the alphanumeric value rendered on the invitee s client device the processing system associated with the authority can validate the alphanumeric value by communicating the alphanumeric value to the server and receiving a response indicating whether the alphanumeric value matches a valid alphanumeric representation for the invitation e.g. an alphanumeric representation for the invitation that currently is associated with an invitee to the event at the point in time the processing system communicates the alphanumeric value to the server . When the credential authority validates a numeric representation for a credential presented by an invitee the processing system of the credential authority can notify the server that the invitee is checked in to the event. If the invitee is already checked in then the server can update the invitee s status to checked out. When an invitee s alphanumeric representation of an invitation is validated the server may record the invitee as being checked in to the event if the invitee has not already checked in to the event. Alternatively if the invitee already is checked in the server may update the invitee s status to checked out responsive to a successful validation of the invitee s alphanumeric representation of the invitation.

An invitee may also check in to an event by accessing a representation for an invitation to the event on the invitee s client device within a certain predetermined distance and optionally time associated with the event. For example when the invitee operates a mobile application executing on the client device to display the representation of the invitation to an authority involved in regulating attendance to the event the client device determines the current location of the client device . If the client device determines that the current location of the client device is within a predefined distance of the location associated with the event the client device infers that the invitee associated with the credential for which the representation was displayed has entered the event and notifies the server via the network that the invitee has entered the event. Similarly the invitee may be check out of an event responsive to detecting that the invitee s mobile device has travelled a predetermined distance from the event after the invitee checked in to the event.

The server may also host a social intelligence service. As such server may be configured to extract and process data from one or more electronic social networking platforms e.g. electronic social networking platform at the request of an event host . For example server may be configured to access an API to extract data from electronic social networking platform . Among other features server may extract data from the user profiles of invitees to an event including for example demographic information e.g. gender age relationship status interests current residence and or information about interests of the invitees. In some implementations the social intelligence service and the event management service may be separate applications that cooperate with one another to enable e.g. targeted invitations. In other implementations the social intelligence service and the event management service may be a single unified application.

The server may then aggregate the extracted data and transmit the aggregate data to a client device of an event host upon request. In some implementations the server may exclude user profiles from the aggregate data where the user profiles have undeclared undisclosed values for one or more desired characteristics. For example if the client device requests aggregate data regarding gender information of invitees user profiles the server may exclude user profiles from the aggregate data that have undisclosed gender information.

Electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices connected to electronic social networking platform over network . In some implementations the system may include multiple electronic social networking platforms. The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. Electronic social networking platform also may provide an API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

In some implementations electronic social networking platform may enable individual user profiles e.g. the event host and or users to grant server a token that defines permission levels related to data about the user profiles social network that server may access and extract from electronic social networking platform . For each individual user profile for which server has a token server may extract information about the user profile and the other user profiles who are members of the user profile s social network. This information may include identifying information for the user profile and each member of the user profile s social network as well as demographic information for the user profile and each member of the user profile s social network e.g. hometown current residence age or date of birth gender relationship status etc. . For each individual user profile for which server has a token server also may extract communications that have been shared with the user profile information about interests the user profile has identified and or information about events to which the user profile has been invited.

In some implementations after retrieving information about an event or extracting user data from electronic social networking platform the server may store the associated data in one more databases. For example the server may store information in one or more on line transaction processing OLTP databases. Such OLTP databases may be implemented as relational or other forms of databases. Server then may process the data stored in the database s and load the processed data into a data warehouse e.g. an on line analytical processing OLAP data warehouse that may facilitate reporting and analysis of the processed data. Server then may provide an event host with access to data that corresponds to data extracted from electronic social networking platform that is related to invitees to an event hosted by the event host.

For example a mobile application on the client device may provide the event host the capability to access the social intelligence service operating on the server to analyze user profiles of invitees to an event hosted by the event host . The mobile application may allow the event host to analyze various characteristics of invitees to the event such as for example one or more of gender age relationship status current residence interests Friendlists and so forth.

In step the processor obtains a plurality of identifiers where each of the identifiers corresponds to an invitee to an event. The plurality of identifiers may correspond to all or a selected subset of invitees to the event for example all of the invitees who have accepted invitations to the event all of the invitees who have tentatively accepted invitations to the event all of the invitees who have declined invitations to the event all of the invitees who have not responded to invitations to the event all of the invitees who attended the event and or all of the invitees who are currently attending the event. For example the server may retrieve identifiers associated with invitees by obtaining an event object associated with a specified event from the social networking platform . Alternatively or in addition the client device may retrieve identifiers by communicating with the server and or the social networking platform .

Then in step the processor obtains a user profile or other user data for each of the plurality of identifiers. Such user profiles or other user data typically include a value for each of a plurality of characteristics e.g. gender age relationship status interests and or current residence of the users to which they correspond. In some instances the value for one or more of such characteristics may be undeclared undisclosed e.g. not available in the user profile or other user data . For example the server may retrieve user profiles or other user data associated with the invitees to the event by accessing an API of the social networking platform and or by retrieving the user profiles or other user data from a database or other form of storage accessible to the server where user profiles or other user data previously extracted from social networking platform are stored. Alternatively or in addition the client device may retrieve user profiles or other user data by communicating with the server and or the social networking platform .

Next in step the processor generates aggregate data representing the values from the user profiles or other user data for one or more selected characteristics. In some implementations the processor may exclude user profiles associated with undeclared values for one or more of the selected characteristics. For example if a given user profile lacks a gender characteristic that user profile may be excluded from the aggregate data when the server is compiling aggregate data on gender characteristics. In some implementations the server generates the aggregate data. Alternatively or in addition the client device generates the aggregate data.

Finally in step the processor outputs a representation of the aggregate data for display on a client device. The representation of the aggregate data may be for example a bar chart a word cloud a histogram or any other suitable visualization of the aggregate data. In some implementations the client device may generate the representation and render the representation on a display of the client device. In some implementations the server may generate and transmit a representation of the aggregate data to the client device for rendering on a display.

Some implementations enable the event host to create an event e.g. on the social networking platform . For example the client device may receive event details from the event host including an event time an event location an event description and an event picture. In response the client device may initiate transmission of the event details to addresses of invitees.

In some implementations the client device may initiate transmission of a credential associated with the event e.g. a representation of an invitation to the event to the invitees. The transmission may be sent via a server email SMS or the electronic social networking platform. Also some implementations include an RSVP capability that enables invitees to indicate to the event host that they intend to attend the event.

Some implementations allow the event host to transmit a message to the invitees. In some aspects the message may be included with a transmitted invitation.

While described above as being external to the social networking platform the event management service and social intelligence service may be an event management system integral with a social networking platform that includes independent access to user profiles that include user information regarding gender age relationship status interests current location and Friendlists. Additionally in some implementations the event host may be able to invite users who are not in the social network of the event host .

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as a network described above. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

