---

title: Photoelectric conversion device and operation method for photoelectric conversion device
abstract: A photoelectric conversion unit generates an amount of charges. A differential amplifier has first and second input transistors and is configured to output a current signal based on the amount of charges. A reset voltage providing unit is configured to provide a reset voltage for input nodes of the first and second input transistors. A transfer transistor is electrically connected to, and configured to transfer a charge to, the input node of the first input transistor. A reset transistor is electrically connected to one of the input nodes, and configured to control an electrical connection between the reset voltage providing unit and the input node connected to the reset transistor. A connection transistor has first and second nodes and is configured to control an electrical connection between the input nodes. The first and second nodes are connected to the input nodes of the first and second input transistors, respectively.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09570508&OS=09570508&RS=09570508
owner: CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09570508
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121213
---
The disclosure relates to a photoelectric conversion device and an operation method for a photoelectric conversion device.

Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2001 157114 describes an image sensor including a plurality of pixels each of which includes a photodiode and a differential output unit. The differential output unit converts a difference of voltages stored in two storing units into a current signal and outputs the current signal.

According to one or more embodiments a photoelectric conversion unit generates an amount of charges. A differential amplifier is configured to output a current signal based on the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit. The differential amplifier includes a first input transistor and a second input transistor forming a differential pair. A transfer transistor is electrically connected to an input node of the first input transistor and configured to transfer the charge generated by the photoelectric conversion unit to the input node of the first input transistor. A reset voltage providing unit is configured to provide a reset voltage for the input node of the first input transistor and an input node of the second input transistor. A reset transistor is electrically connected to either one of the input node of the first input transistor or the input node of the second input transistor and configured to control an electrical connection between the reset voltage providing unit and the input node connected to the reset transistor. A connection transistor is configured to control an electrical connection between the input node of the first input transistor and the input node of the second input transistor. A first node of the connection transistor is connected to the input node of the first input transistor and a second node of the connection transistor is connected to the input node of the second input transistor.

According to one or more embodiments a method for operating a photoelectric conversion device is provided. The device according to the present embodiments includes a photoelectric conversion unit. The device according to the embodiments includes a differential amplifier configured to output a current signal based on an amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit. The differential amplifier includes a first input transistor and a second input transistor forming a differential pair. The device according to the embodiments includes a transfer transistor electrically connected to an input node of the first input transistor. The transfer transistor is configured to transfer a charge generated by the photoelectric conversion unit to the input node of the first input transistor. The device according to the embodiments includes a reset voltage providing unit configured to provide a reset voltage for the input node of the first input transistor and an input node of the second input transistor. The device according to the embodiments includes a reset transistor electrically connected to either one of the input node of the first input transistor or the input node of the second input transistor. The reset transistor is configured to control an electrical connection between the reset voltage providing unit and the input node connected to the reset transistor. The device according to the embodiments includes a connection transistor configured to control an electrical connection between the input node of the first input transistor and the input node of the second input transistor. A first node of the connection transistor is connected to the input node of the first input transistor and a second node of the connection transistor is connected to the input node of the second input transistor. The method according to the embodiments comprises a step of turning on both of the reset transistor and the connection transistor. The method according to the embodiments comprises a step of thereafter tuning off the reset transistor. The method according to the embodiments comprises a step of thereafter turning off the connection transistor.

Further features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.

A photoelectric conversion device according to one or more embodiments includes a pixel. The pixel includes a photoelectric conversion unit and a differential amplifier. The photoelectric conversion unit converts incident light into a charge. The photoelectric conversion unit may be for example a photodiode. The differential amplifier includes a first input transistor and a second input transistor which form a differential pair. The differential amplifier outputs a current signal according to the difference between the voltages of the two input nodes.

A transfer transistor is provided which transfers charges generated at the photoelectric conversion unit into either one of the two input nodes of the differential amplifier. In detail the transfer transistor is electrically connected to the input node of either one of the first and second input transistors. In case the input transistor is a MOS Metal Oxide Semiconductor transistor the gate may be the input node.

In one or more embodiments an amplification unit for converting the charges of the photoelectric conversion unit into a voltage signal to be input to the differential amplifier may be omitted. In one or more embodiments a voltage signal storing unit for storing the voltage signal to be input to the differential amplifier may be omitted. Accordingly sensitivity may be improved by reduction of the number of elements included in the pixel in one or more embodiments.

A connection transistor is provided which controls an electrical connection between the two input nodes of the differential amplifier. The connection transistor may be for example a MOS transistor. The source and the drain of the MOS transistor correspond to a first node and a second node of the connection transistor. One of the source and the drain is electrically connected to the input node of the first input transistor and the other is electrically connected to the input node of the second input transistor. The connection transistor is controlled to be on or off by a voltage provided for the gate of the connection transistor. By turning on or off the connection transistor may control the electrical connection between the two input nodes.

In one or more embodiments the connection transistor may reduce or cancel reset noise which is generated when the input node of the differential amplifier is reset.

Before the charges are transferred to the input node of the differential amplifier the input node may be reset. A reset transistor for providing the input node with a reset voltage from a reset voltage providing unit is electrically connected to the input node. When the reset transistor connected to the input node is turned off thermal noise such as kTC noise may be generated.

When the amount of noise of one of the input nodes is different from that of the other due to the randomness thereof the two input nodes may be reset into different voltages which cause the reset noise. In the case where the reset voltages are provided for the two input nodes through different electrical paths the amount of noise of one of the two input nodes may be different from that of the other.

In one or more embodiments when the connection transistor is turned on the voltages of the two input nodes may be substantially equal to each other. Hence when the connection transistor turns off generated noise may be equally divided and transferred into the two input nodes. That is by turning off the connection transistor being in the on state the difference of the amount of the noise between the two input nodes may be reduced or cancelled. As a result the reset noise may be reduced.

In one or more embodiments one of the two input nodes of the differential amplifier is provided with the reset voltage through the reset transistor. The other of the two input nodes is provided with the reset voltage through the reset transistor and the connection transistor. Each of the two input nodes may be in an electrically floating state.

In one or more embodiments the photoelectric conversion device may be used for imaging. For imaging the photoelectric conversion device includes a plurality of the pixels. Since the reset noise is random noise it is simpler to reduce or cancel the reset noise at the pixel than to process the obtained images. The pixel may be defined as a repeated unit or a periodical unit including the photoelectric conversion unit and the corresponding transistors.

In the following detailed description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed embodiments. These embodiments may have the above mentioned features. It will be apparent however that one or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are schematically shown in order to simplify the drawings. One disclosed feature of the embodiments may be described as a process which is usually depicted as a timing diagram. A timing diagram may illustrate the timing relationships of several entities such as signals events etc. Although a timing diagram may describe the operations as a sequential process some operations may be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition unless specifically stated the order of the operations or timing instants may be re arranged. Furthermore the timing or temporal distances may not be scaled or depict the timing relationships in exact proportions.

In the following embodiments an electron is used as a signal charge. In other embodiments a hole may be used as a signal charge and the conductivity type of the elements may be inverted.

The charges generated in the photoelectric conversion unit is transferred either one of the two input nodes of the differential amplifier included in the pixel by the transfer transistor. The pixel includes the connection transistor which controls an electrical connection between the two input nodes of the differential amplifier.

Each part of the photoelectric conversion device of the present embodiment will be described in detail. The plurality of pixels are arranged so as to form a pixel array including three rows and three columns. The number of the pixels is not limited. For example the plurality of pixels are arranged so as to form a pixel array including more than 1000 rows and more than 1500 columns. In another case the plurality of pixels may be arranged in a line so as to form a line sensor.

Signals from the pixels included in a single pixel column may be processed in common circuitry. In the following description exemplary one of the pixel columns will be explained. The other pixel columns may have the same structure configuration and or circuitry as the exemplary one.

The pixel includes at least a photoelectric conversion unit and a pixel amplification unit. Incident light may be converted into a charge by the photoelectric conversion unit. The pixel amplification unit may output a current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit. Thus the pixel may be a signal source configured to output a current signal. The pixel includes OUT node via which the current signal from the pixel is output. The pixel may further include a BIAS node via which a bias current is provided from a bias current source and a plurality of nodes PTX node PRES node and PSEL node via which drive signals are provided. The detailed structure of the pixel will be described later.

The BIAS node of the pixel is electrically connected to the bias current source . A plurality of the pixel may be electrically connected to the common bias current source . For example the pixels included in a single pixel column are electrically connected to the common bias current source . In another case a bias current source may be provided for each of the pixels in the pixel column.

The PTX node the PRES node and the PSEL node are electrically connected to the vertical scanning circuit . The vertical scanning circuit may provide a common drive signal for the pixels included in a single pixel row. Further the vertical scanning circuit may provide the pixels included in different rows from each other with independent drive signals. According to the drive signals the vertical scanning circuit provides the signals are read out from the pixels on the pixel row basis. The PRES node is shown to be enclosed in a dotted enclosure to indicate that other arrangement is possible. For example as shown in a dotted enclosure there may be two PRES nodes a PRES node and a PRES node corresponding to two resent control signals. This notation is also used in .

The OUT node of the pixel is electrically connected to a first output line . The OUT nodes of a plurality of the pixels may be electrically connected to the common first output line . For example the OUT nodes of the pixels included in a single pixel column are electrically connected to the common first output line . Thus the current signals from the plurality of the pixels may be output to the first output line .

The first output line is electrically connected to the current mirror circuit. An output node of the current mirror circuit is electrically connected to a second output line . The current mirror circuit includes an input side transistor and an output side transistor . The input side and output side transistors are P type channel MOS Metal Oxide Semiconductor transistors. The gate and the drain of the input side transistor are shorted. The source of the input side transistor is electrically connected to a power source line. The power source line may provide the source of the input side transistor with a power source voltage VDD. The gate of the output side transistor is electrically connected to the gate of the input side transistor . The source of the output side transistor is electrically connected to a power source line. The power source line may provide the source of the output side transistor with a power source voltage VDD. The first output line is electrically connected to the drain of the input side transistor and the gates which are shorted to the drain of the input side transistor . The drain of the output side transistor is electrically connected to the second output line .

In the current mirror circuit a current running through the input side transistor may be mirrored in the output side transistor . In other words the current mirror circuit may output a current signal a mirrored current signal corresponding to the current signal at the first output line into the second output line . The current mirror circuit may output the mirror current signal which is amplified or attenuated with respected to the current signal at the first output line . The amplification or attenuation factor may be determined according to a ratio of the sizes of the input and output side transistors . For example in a case of the input and output side transistors having the substantially same channel length the amplification or attenuation factor may be the ratio of the channel widths.

The second output line is electrically connected to the current to voltage convertor. The current to voltage convertor includes an operational amplifier and a conversion resistor . The second output line is electrically connected a first input node of the operational amplifier . The second input node of the operational amplifier is electrically connected to a reference voltage line. The reference voltage line may provide a reference voltage VREF for the second input node of the operational amplifier. The first input node which is electrically connected to the second output line is electrically connected to an output node of the operational amplifier via the conversion resistor . One node of the conversion resistor is connected to the second output line and the first input node of the operational amplifier . And the other node of the conversion resistor is connected to the output node of the operational amplifier.

The operational amplifier may work such that its two input nodes and have the same voltage. Since the reference voltage VREF is provided for the second input node the voltage of the first input node may be set in the reference voltage VREF. That is the voltage of the one node of the conversion resistor may be the reference voltage VREF. Accordingly the voltage of the other node of the conversion resistor may be determined by a voltage drop at the conversion resistor which is give by its resistance and amplitude of a current running through the conversion resistor . Since the operational amplifier has a high input impedance all or most of the current at the second output line may flow into the conversion resistor . Hence a voltage corresponding to the amplitude of the current at the second output line may emerge at the output node of the operational amplifier . As described above the current signal from the second output line may be converted into the voltage signal by the current to voltage convertor.

The conversion resistor may have variable resistance. When the resistance of the conversion resistor varies a conversion gain in the conversion from the current signal to the voltage signal may vary. High resistance may result in a high gain. For a conversion of a current signal with small amplitude the resistance of the conversion resistor may be controlled to be high. A high gain may reduce an influence caused by a noise generated in the subsequent stages. For a conversion of a current signal with large amplitude the resistance of the conversion resistor may be controlled to be low. When a low gain is used a wide dynamic range may be obtained.

Although the gain at the current to voltage conversion varies the amplitude of the current running through the conversion resistance may be kept to be substantially constant. Hence the power consumption may be kept substantially constant. Therefore the power consumption may be reduced as compared with the case where the amplitude of the current signal is amplified for a high gain.

The output node of the current to voltage convertor is electrically connected to the voltage signal storing portion. The voltage signal storing portion includes a first switch a second switch a CTN capacitor and a CTS capacitor . The first switch is provided in an electrical path between the output node of the operational amplifier and one node of the CTN capacitor . The gate of the first switch is electrically connected to a PTN node. The other node of the CTN capacitor may be provided with a ground voltage GND. The second switch is provided in an electrical path between the output node of the operational amplifier and one node of the CTS capacitor . The gate of the second switch is electrically connected to a PTS node. The other node of the CTS capacitor may be provided with the ground voltage GND.

The PTN node may be provided with a drive signal for controlling the first switch to be turned on or off. The PTS node may be provided with a drive signal for controlling the second switch to be turned on or off. When the first switch turns on the voltage signal at the output node of the operational amplifier may be stored in the CTN capacitor . When the second switch turns on the voltage signal at the output node of the operational amplifier may be stored in the CTS capacitor . As described above the voltage signal store portion may store the voltage signal which has been converted from the current signal by the current to voltage convertor.

The voltage signal store portion is electrically connected to the output portion. The output portion includes a third switch a fourth switch and an output amplifier . The CTN capacitor is electrically connected to the third output line via the third switch . The CTS capacitor is electrically connected to the fourth output line via the fourth switch . The gates of the third and fourth switches are electrically connected to the horizontal scanning circuit . The third and fourth output lines and are electrically connected to the output amplifier . The output node of the output amplifier may be electrically connected to a subsequent signal processing unit not shown .

The horizontal scanning circuit may provide drive signals for controlling respectively the third and fourth switches and to be turned on or off. When the third switch turns on the voltage signal stored in the CTN capacitor may be read out into the third output line by capacitive division of charges. When the fourth switch turns on the voltage signal stored in the CTS capacitor may be read out into the fourth output line by capacitive division of charges. The output amplifier may amplify the voltage signals at the third and fourth output lines and respectively. In another case the output amplifier may be a differential processing unit. For example the output amplifier may output a differential signal between the voltage signals at the third and fourth output lines and . As above described the output portion may output the voltage signal stored in the voltage signal storing portion.

Here the capacitive division of charges will be described in detail. There provided are a first capacitor and a second capacitor which is connectable to the first capacitor via a switch. The capacitor may be a capacitive node. When the first capacitor is connected to the second capacitor charges in the first capacitor may be divided into the first and second capacitor. In another aspect the voltage of the first capacitor may be converted into a voltage corresponding to the composite capacitance of the first and second capacitors. For example the voltage of the CTS capacitor is converted into a voltage corresponding to the composite capacitance of the CTS capacitor and the fourth output line .

As described above the current signal from the pixel which is a signal source is converted into the voltage signal and the converted voltage signal is output to the outside.

Hereinafter an exemplary structure of the pixel will be described in detail. The pixel includes at least the photoelectric conversion unit and the pixel amplification unit. Incident light may be converted into a charge by the photoelectric conversion unit. The pixel amplification unit may output a current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit.

The anode of the PD is provided with a ground voltage GND. The cathode of the PD is electrically connected to a node via the transfer transistor . The transfer transistor transfers the charges generated at the PD to the node .

The gate of the first input transistor is electrically connected to the node . The gate of the first input transistor is a first input node of the differential amplifier. The voltage at the gate of the first input transistor may be a voltage corresponding to the amount of charges which are transferred to the node . In another aspect the transferred charges are converted into a voltage signal at the node . The drain of the first input transistor is electrically connected to the power source line. The power source line may provide the drain of the first input transistor with a power source voltage SVDD. The power source voltage SVDD may be the same as the power source voltage VDD which is provided for the current mirror circuit. In another case the power source voltage SVDD and the power source voltage VDD may be different from each other. The source of the first input transistor is electrically connected to the drain of the first selection transistor via the resistor R.

The gate of the second input transistor is electrically connected to a source of the connection transistor . The gate of the second input transistor is a second input node of the differential amplifier. The source of the second input transistor is electrically connected to the drain of the first selection transistor via the resistor R. The drain of the second input transistor is electrically connected to the source of the second selection transistor .

The node is electrically connected to the reset voltage line via the reset transistor . The reset transistor controls an electrical connection between the node and the reset voltage line. When the reset transistor is turned on the node is provided with the reset voltage VRES. In other words the reset transistor may reset the voltage of the first input node of the differential amplifier.

The connection transistor is provided in an electrical path between the gate of the first input transistor the node and the gate of the second input transistor . In other words one of the source and the drain of the connection transistor is electrically connected to the gate of the first input transistor and the other to the gate of the second input transistor . When the connection transistor is turned on the gate of the first input transistor and the gate of the second input transistor are shorted to each other. When both of the reset transistor and the connection transistor are turned on the reset voltage VRES may be provided for the gate of the second input transistor via the reset transistor and the connection transistor .

The drain of the first selection transistor is electrically connected to the resistor R and the resistor R. The source of the first selection transistor is electrically connected to the BIAS node. The drain of the second selection transistor is electrically connected to the OUT node. The BIAS node is electrically connected to the bias current source and the OUT node is electrically connected to the first output line .

The gate of the transfer transistor is electrically connected to the PTX node. The gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor are electrically connected to the PRES node. The gates of the first and second selection transistors are electrically connected to the PSEL node. The vertical scanning circuit provides each gate of the transistors with a drive signal for controlling each of the transistors into on or off.

In the gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor are electrically connected to each other as shown in the dotted enclosure. In another case the gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor may be provided with independent drive signals PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure . In this case the reset transistor and the connection transistor may be controlled independently from each other. For example when the both of the reset transistor and the connection transistor are on the reset transistor is firstly turned off thereafter the connection transistor is turned off.

The first input transistor and the second input transistor may form a differential pair. That is the sources of the two transistors and are electrically connected to the common bias current source . A drain current of the second input transistor which is the current signal to be output from the pixel corresponds to the difference of the voltages at the gates of the two transistors . Thus the differential pair of the first input transistor and the second input transistor is included in the differential amplifier.

The first and second selection transistors may select a pixel which outputs the current signal out of the plurality of the pixels . In detail when both of the first and second selection transistors are turned on the differential amplifier may output the current signal via the OUT node.

In a second reset transistor may be provided in an electrical path between the gate of the second input transistor and the reset voltage line. In this case accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the differential amplifier may be improved.

Other exemplary structure of the pixel will be described in detail. illustrates an equivalent circuit of the pixel of the present embodiment. The reset transistor in is omitted in . Two transistors the transfer transistor and the connection transistor are connected to the gate of the first input transistor . Two transistors the second reset transistor and the connection transistor are connected to the gate of the second input transistor . Accordingly since the same number of the transistors is connected to each of the first and second input node of the differential amplifier accuracy of the current signal may be improved. In addition as in the gates of the transistor and the second reset transistor are shown tied together in a dotted enclosure. In another embodiment the gates of these two transistors may be independently controlled by PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure .

In the first and second selection transistors are provided for selection of the pixel. Providing the first selection transistor may reduce power consumption by cutting the current when the pixel is in a non selective state. Providing the second selection transistor may reduce the parasitic capacitance of the first output line .

One of the first and second selection transistors may be omitted. In case the second selection transistor is omitted accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the two input nodes of the differential amplifier may be improved.

Further a third selection transistor may be provided in an electrical path between the drain of the first input transistor and the power source line. In case both of the second and third selection transistors are provided the accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the differential amplifier may be improved.

In another case both of the first and second selection transistors may be omitted. In this case the pixel may be set in non selective state by providing the gate of the first and second input transistors with a voltage such that both transistors are turned off. For example such voltage may be provided from the reset voltage line. In case both of the first and second selection transistors are omitted the fill factor of the pixel may be improved by the reduction of the number of the pixel transistors.

Further the pixel configuration in may change such that a charge of the PD may be transferred to the gate of the second input transistor . In other words the transfer transistor may be provided not in an electrical path between the PD and the gate of the first input transistor but in an electrical path between the PD and the gate of the second input transistor . In this case since the same number of the transistors is connected to each of the first and second input node of the differential amplifier the accuracy of the current signal may be improved. Each gate of the first and second input transistors and may be set in an electrically floating state after the reset voltage VRES is provided. Accordingly the current signal corresponding to the difference of the voltages between the two input nodes may be output regardless of which one of the two input nodes the charge of the PD is transferred to.

In the electron is used as the signal charge and is transferred to the node which is the gate of the first input transistor . The transfer of the electron may lower the voltage of the node . The more the charges are transferred the lower the voltage of the node may become. Since in the bright situation a large amount of charges may be transferred to the node the voltage of the node may be low. Since the input transistors have N type channels the amplitude of the current signal may be larger in the bright situation than in the dark situation. In another case the electron of the PD may be transferred to the gate of the second input transistor . In this case the more the charges are transferred the smaller the amplitude of the current signal may become. The dark situation may include a situation where the voltage of the node has been reset and charges are not transferred to the node .

In the connection transistor is connected to the two input nodes of the differential amplifier. Accordingly the reset noise which is generated when the input nodes are reset may be substantially equally divided into the two input nodes. Since the divided noises may cancel each other by the differential amplification noises in the current signal may be reduced.

As shown in in one or more embodiments the circuit for reading out the current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated in the photoelectric conversion unit into the first output line which is illustrated in each of is repeatedly or periodically arranged. That is the circuit illustrated in any one of is provided for each of the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units. In other words transistors included in the readout portion are repeatedly or periodically arranged so as to correspond to a plurality of the pixels whose signals are output to the common output line e.g. the first output line .

In other embodiments the circuit illustrated in any one of may be repeatedly or periodically provided every two or more of the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units. In detail charges of two photoelectric conversion units may be transferred into the gate of the first input transistor which is commonly provided for the two photoelectric conversion units. In this case a plurality of the photoelectric conversion units may share the transistors other than the transfer transistor. Therefore the fill factor of the pixel may be improved by the reduction of the number of the pixel transistors.

In the present embodiment each of the transistors is repeatedly or periodically provided so as to correspond to the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units. Each of the transistors may have the same conductivity type. Specifically the first and second input transistors the transfer transistor the first and second selection transistors the reset transistor and the connection transistor all are N type channel MOS transistors. In this case since a single conductivity type of a well may be provided in the pixel the fill factor of the pixel which is a ratio of a region that the photoelectric conversion unit occupies to a region of a single pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved. However a part of these transistors may have a different conductivity type from the others.

In the present embodiment the electron may be used as the signal charge and the N type channel transistors may be provided in the pixel. In this case since the photoelectric conversion unit and the transistors may be provided in the same well the fill factor of the pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved. When a hole is used as the signal charge P type channel transistors may be used.

An element which is not repeatedly arranged but is provided commonly for a plurality of the photoelectric conversion units may be included in the circuit for reading out the current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated in the photoelectric conversion unit into the first output line . For example the bias current source in may be included in the circuit for reading out or the readout portion because it may drive the differential amplifier by providing the bias current. In the bias current source however is provided for each of the plurality of the pixel rows. Thus the bias current source is not an element which is repeatedly or periodically arranged so as to correspond to the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units whose signals are to be output to the common output line the first output line . Thus the bias current source may include a P type channel transistor.

The element isolation portion may include an isolation structure such as LOCOS Local Oxidation of Silicon or STI Shallow Trench Isolation . In another case the element isolation portion may include an isolation structure using a PN junction. The element isolation portion may electrically isolate the PD and the transistors.

In the present embodiment the MOS transistors are used in the pixel. Each transistor has a source region a drain region a gate electrode and a channel region. The source region the drain region and the channel region are semiconductor regions provided in the semiconductor substrate. The gate electrode may be formed of a poly silicon provided on the semiconductor substrate via an insulator film.

The PD includes a semiconductor region . The first input transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The second input transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The semiconductor regions and may respectively form the resistors R and R. The transfer transistor may include a gate electrode as the gate. The first selection transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The second selection transistor may include semiconductor regions and the gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The reset transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The connection transistor may include the semiconductor regions and the gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate.

Contact plugs are provided for the gate electrode and the semiconductor regions each of which forms the source or the drain. The semiconductor regions and the gate electrode may be connected to conductive members included in interconnections via the contact plugs . For example the semiconductor region and the gate electrode are connected to each other by the interconnection and form the node in .

As shown in two nodes which are supposed to be electrically connected to each other may be formed of a common semiconductor region or a common gate electrode. For example since the drain of the second input transistor may be connected to the source of the second selection transistor both nodes are formed of the semiconductor region . In another case however the two nodes may be formed of two separated semiconductor regions. The gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor may be formed of two separated gate electrodes to correspond to two reset control signals PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure . Although in the resistors R and R are formed of the semiconductor regions and the resistors R and R may be thin film resistors formed of poly silicon as the like.

As shown in the structure from the gate electrode to the gate electrode may have symmetry with respect to a line. In this case accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the differential amplifier may be improved.

The PD includes an N type semiconductor region . The N type semiconductor region may accumulate generated charges therein. The first input transistor may include N type semiconductor regions and as the source and the drain. Accordingly the first input transistor may have an N type channel. These N type semiconductor regions may be provided in a P type well . The P type well may be provided with the ground voltage GND.

The P type well may be a semiconductor region formed by diffusing or implanting impurities into the semiconductor substrate. In another case the P type well may be formed by an epitaxial layer grown on the semiconductor substrate.

A P type semiconductor region is provided adjacent to the N type semiconductor region of the PD . The P type semiconductor region may be connected to the P type well and be provided with the ground voltage GND. The P type semiconductor region may reduce a noise caused by a dark current generated at the interface of the semiconductor substrate and an insulator.

In case the transistors which included in the pixel circuit have the same conductivity type a single conductivity type of a well may be used in the pixel as shown in . Therefore the fill factor of the pixel which is a ratio of a region that the photoelectric conversion unit occupies to a region of a single pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved.

In the present embodiment the PD which accumulates electrons may be formed by providing N type semiconductor region in the P type well . In this case since the photoelectric conversion unit and the transistors may be provided in the same well the fill factor of the pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved. When hole is used as the signal charge P type channel transistors may be used and vice versa.

If two wells having different conductive type from each other are provided a PN junction may be formed between the two wells. In this case the elements are provided with a distance from the PN junction in order to avoid the influence the electrical field caused by the PN junction may impose on.

As shown in light may enter the semiconductor substrate in a direction indicated by L. That is the photoelectric conversion device illustrated in is a front side illuminated type.

The photoelectric conversion device illustrated in is a back side illuminated type. In detail light may enter the semiconductor substrate from a side back side opposite to a side front side on which the gate electrodes of the transistors are provided. The reference symbol L in indicates a direction in which light may enter the semiconductor substrate.

The same reference symbols are used to indicate elements in and which perform the same or a similar function and detailed descriptions of the elements are not repeated. A conductive member included in an interconnection is shown in . Further a color filter and a lens may be provided on the back side of the semiconductor substrate.

In the back side illuminated type photoelectric conversion device conductive members and gate electrodes which may shield incident light may be reduced on a side back side through which the incident light may enter the semiconductor substrate. Accordingly sensitivity may be improved.

The photoelectric conversion device of the present embodiment may include a second semiconductor substrate. The second semiconductor substrate may include transistors in the circuit for reading out the current signal from the pixels or the signal processing circuit. The second semiconductor substrate may be provided on a first side of the conductive member the first side being opposite to a second side of the conductive member on which the PD is provided. In another aspect of view the first semiconductor substrate where the PD is provided and the second semiconductor substrate where the transistors are provided may be arranged so as to face to each other with the conductive member included in the interconnection therebetween. In this case the fill factor of the pixel may be improved by reduction of the number of the pixel transistors which are provided in the same semiconductor substrate as the PD .

Hereinafter an exemplary operation for the photoelectric conversion device according to the present embodiment will be described. is a timing chart of the drive signals. The drive signals PSEL PRES PTX PTN and PTS illustrated in are respectively provided for the PSEL node the PRES node the PTX node the PTN node and the PTS node illustrated in . In another embodiment there may be two drive signals PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure . The drive signal H is provided for the gates of the third and fourth switches of the leftward pixel column in . The drive signal H is provided for the gates of the third and fourth switches of the middle pixel column in . The drive signal H is provided for the gates of the third and fourth switches of the rightward pixel column in .

Each of the drive signals may have at least two values which correspond to a high level and a low level. In analog circuits the high level of the drive signal may turn on the corresponding transistor. The low level of the drive signal may turn off the corresponding transistor.

Before T the PRES is of a high level. The other drive signals are of low levels. At this time the reset voltage VRES is provided for the node and the gate of the second input transistor . Since the transfer transistor is turned off in this period charges generated by photoelectric conversion may be accumulated in the PD .

At T the PSEL turns into a high level whereby the pixel may be selected. Thus the current signal according to the voltage of the input node of the pixel amplification unit may be output via the OUT node.

At T the PRES turns into a low level whereby the node may become electrically floating. In the pixel illustrated in the node and the gate of the second input transistor may become electrically floating.

At T the PTN turns into a high level. When the PTN is of a high level the voltage signal converted from the current signal from the pixel may be stored in the CTN capacitor . At T the voltage of the input node node of the pixel amplification unit is the reset voltage VRES. Accordingly a voltage signal corresponding to a current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset is stored in the CTN capacitor . The current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset or the voltage signal converted therefrom may contain a reset nose which is generated when the reset transistor turns off. After a period passes since T the PTN turns into a low level.

At T the PTX turns into a high level whereby the charge generated at PD may be transferred to the node . At this time the whole charges of the PD may be transferred to the node . After a period passes since T the PTX turns into a low level.

By the transfer of the charges to the node the voltage of the node may change from the reset voltage VRES. The amount of the voltage change may be defined by the amount of the charges transferred. On the other hand the voltage of the gate of the second input transistor may be kept at the reset voltage VRES. Thus the voltage difference according to the amount of the charges may emerge between the two input nodes of the differential amplifier and the differential amplifier may output the current signal according to the voltage difference.

At T the PTS turns into a high level. When the PTS is of a high level the voltage signal converted from the current signal from the pixel may be stored in the CTS capacitor . At T the voltage of the input node node of the pixel amplification unit is a voltage corresponding to the amount of the charges generated by the incident light. Accordingly a voltage signal corresponding to the amount of the incident light is stored in the CTS capacitor . The voltage signal corresponding to the amount of the incident light may contain a reset nose which is generated when the reset transistor turns off. After a period passes since T the PTS turns into a low level.

The PRES turns into a high level at T and the PTX turns into a high level at T whereby the reset voltage VRES may be provided for the node and the cathode of the PD . In other words the pixel may be reset. In another case the PRES and the TTX turn into high levels simultaneously. In further another case the PTX turns into a high level before the PRES turns into a high level. After a period passes since T the PTX turns into a low level. After the pixel has been reset the PSEL turns into a low level. The PSEL may turn into a low level before the signal is output from the pixel to be read out thereafter. When there are two independent reset control signals PRES and PRES that correspond to transistors and respectively the timing for these signals are shown in the dotted enclosure . In this embodiment the PRES turns into a low level to turn off the transistor . After a time interval T the PRES signal turns into a low level to turn off the transistor . This operation is further explained in the following paragraphs.

From T the signal which is stored in the voltage signal storing portion of each pixel column is serially read out. At T the H turns into a high level whereby the voltage signals stored in the CTN capacitor and CTS capacitor of the leftward pixel column in are read out into the output portion. At T the H turns into a high level whereby the voltage signals stored in the CTN capacitor and CTS capacitor of the middle pixel column in are read out into the output portion. At T the H turns into a high level whereby the voltage signals stored in the CTN capacitor and CTS capacitor of the rightward pixel column in are read out into the output portion.

In one or more embodiments reading out of signals from the pixels in a different row may start after the all of the voltage signals stored in the voltage signal storing portions are read out. In other embodiments reading out of signals from the pixels in a different row may start after the voltage signals are stored in the voltage signal storing portions. At T for example reading out for the pixel to be read out sequentially is started.

In other embodiments the selection transistor may be omitted. In this case the PSEL is not provided. Alternatively a voltage for turning off one or both of the first and second input transistors may be provided for the gates thereof during a corresponding period in which the PSEL is of a low level. Accordingly the pixel may be set in a non selected state.

In the pixel corresponding to a timing of turning off the reset transistor and a timing of turning off the connection transistor may be offset. In detail the reset transistor turns off before the connection transistor turns off. This is illustrated by the timing shown in the enclosure in . By this order of the operation the reset noises which are generated when the reset transistor turns off may be substantially equally divided into the two input nodes. As the result since the divided noises may cancel each other by the differential amplification noises in the current signal may be reduced.

The read out of the signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset may be omitted. Even though the read out of the signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset is omitted an offset noise of the pixel and the reset noise may be reduced because the pixel amplification unit is the differential amplifier. However with the read out of the current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset offset noises generated in the subsequent states of the pixel may be reduced.

Hereinafter another exemplary operation for the photoelectric conversion device according to one or more embodiments will be described. In this operation the drive signal PSEL may be provided parallel for the pixels in a plurality of the pixel rows. Thus the pixels in the plurality of the pixel rows may simultaneously output the current signals to the same first output line . According to this way of operation the current signals may be summed up or averaged at the first output line . In this case each of the drive signals PSEL PRES PTX may be provided for the pixels in the plurality of the pixel rows simultaneously.

As illustrated in the drive signals for the pixel row N and for the pixel row N 1 are synchronized. Thus the current signals of the pixels included in a plurality of the pixel rows may be output to the first output line in parallel. The detailed operation in the is the same as in and the detailed description is not repeated.

For addition of two current signals from two pixels the bias current source may output the bias current which has the amplitude twice as large as that of the bias current the bias current source may output when the current signal from a single pixel is individually output. Then each of the differential amplifiers of the two pixels may be provided with the bias current as large as that provided when the current signal from a single pixel is individually output. Accordingly the current signals to be added to each other or summed up may have respectively the same amplitude as output individually. In the case where the current signals from more than two pixels are summed up the bias current may be turned up in accordance with the number of the signals to be summed up. For the average of the current signals the bias current may be set in the same amplitude when the current signal from a single pixel is being output.

As described above in one or more embodiments sensitivity may be improved. In one or more embodiments image quality may be improved by the reduction of reset noise.

The photoelectric conversion device of the present embodiment includes a plurality of pixels a current mirror circuit a current to voltage convertor a voltage signal storing portion an output portion a vertical scanning circuit and a horizontal scanning circuit. In each of the pixels incident light may be converted into a charge. The vertical scanning circuit provides the pixels with drive signals. In accordance with the drive signals a current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit is output from the pixel. The current signal from the pixel is input to the current to voltage convertor via the current mirror circuit. The current to voltage convertor converts the current signal which is output from the pixel into a voltage signal. The voltage signal storing portion stores the voltage signal which is converted from the current signal. According to drive signals the horizontal scanning circuit provides the voltage signal stored by the storing portion is read out to the output portion. The output portion outputs the voltage signal to the outside of the device.

In the present embodiment the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit is controllable. The other features may be the same as the above described embodiment. The detailed explanation of the same features as the above described embodiment is not repeated.

The current mirror circuit includes an input side transistor and three output side transistors and . The input and output side transistors and are P type channel MOS transistors.

The gate and the drain of the input side transistor are shorted. The source of the input side transistor is electrically connected to a power source line. The power source line may provide the source of the input side transistor with a power source voltage VDD. The first output line is electrically connected to the drain of the input side transistor and the gate which is shorted to the drain of the input side transistor .

The output side transistors and are arranged in parallel. In detail the sources of the output side transistors and are respectively connected to the power source line. The power source line may provide the sources of the output side transistors and with the power source voltage VDD. The gates of the output side transistors and are respectively connected to the gate of the input side transistor . The drains of the output side transistors and are respectively connected to the second output line .

The input side transistor and the first and second output side transistors have the substantially same channel widths. The third output side transistor has twice as a wide channel width as the input side transistor . The input and output side transistors and have the substantially same channel length.

A first gain control switch is arranged in an electrical path between the drain of the second output side transistor and the second output line . The first gain control switch is a P type channel MOS transistor. A drive signal GAIN may control the first gain control switch to be turned on or off.

A second gain control switch is arranged in an electrical path between the drain of the third output side transistor and the second output line . The second gain control switch is a P type channel MOS transistor. A drive signal GAIN may control the second gain control switch to be turned on or off.

The first and second gain control switches and may control the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit. The first and second gain control switches and may be included in an amplification factor control portion. By using the two gain control switches and four gain settings may be set.

When both of the first and second gain control switches and are turned off the second and third output side transistors and are disconnected from the second output line . Accordingly only the first output side transistor of the three may be connected to the second output line . In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 1.

When the first gain control switch is turned on and the second gain control switch is turned off the third output side transistors is disconnected from the second output line . Accordingly the first and second output side transistors and of the three may be connected to the second output line . Since the output side transistors are arranged in parallel a virtual output side transistor which has twice as a wide channel width as the input side transistor may be considered. In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 2.

When the first gain control switch is turned off and the second gain control switch is turned on the second output side transistors is disconnected from the second output line . Accordingly the first and third output side transistors and of the three may be connected to the second output line . Since the output side transistors are arranged in parallel a virtual output side transistor which has three times as a wide channel width as the input side transistor may be considered. In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 3.

When both of the first and second gain control switches and are turned on all of the three output side transistors and may be connected to the second output line . Since the output side transistors are arranged in parallel a virtual output side transistor which has four times as a wide channel width as the input side transistor may be considered. In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 4.

In three output side transistors are arranged. However the number of the output side transistors is not limited to three. According to the size of each of the transistors the amplification factor may be determined.

In the case where the current signals from the pixels are individually output the amplification factor may be changed. For example the amplification factor may be controlled to be large when the current signal from the pixel has small amplitude while to be small when the current signal from the pixel has large amplitude.

The amplification factor may be changed between the case where the current signal from a single pixel is output and the case where the current signals form a plurality of the pixels are simultaneously output. For adding or averaging the current signals a small amplification factor may be used. The small amplification factor may result in a large dynamic range of the subsequent stages.

An exemplary structure of the pixel may be the same as the above described embodiment. The equivalent circuit of the pixel is illustrated in . The exemplary planar and cross sectional structures of the pixel are illustrated in .

An exemplary operation for the photoelectric conversion device according to the present embodiment may be the same as the above described embodiment. The photoelectric conversion device may be operated according to the drive signals illustrated in or in .

In the present embodiment since the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit is controllable a wide dynamic range and a high signal to noise ratio SN ratio may be obtained. For capturing a dark object improvement in SN ratio may be obtained because of a high gain of the current mirror circuit. For capturing a bright object which is less effected by noises improvement in dynamic range may be obtained because of a low gain of the current mirror circuit.

The A D convertor includes a comparator a latch pulse generator a memory and a counter. The current signals from the pixels are converted into the digital signals at respective pixel columns. The comparator compares the current signal from the pixel with a ramp current signal. The comparator outputs a pulse based on a timing of an inversion of the amplitude relationship between the current signal from the pixel and the ramp current signal. According to the pulse the comparator outputs the latch pulse generator input a latch pulse to a latch circuit of the memory. The memory stores a count value that the counter is outputting when the latch pulse is input to the memory. The count value stored in memory is the digital signal converted from the current signal.

In the present embodiment at each pixel column the current signal is converted into the digital signal. Further in the present embodiment the current signal from the pixel is mirrored by the current mirror circuit and a mirrored current signal is input to the comparator for comparing with the ramp current signal.

Each part of the photoelectric conversion device of the present embodiment will be described in detail. The plurality of pixels are arranged so as to form a pixel array including three rows and three columns. The number of the pixels is not limited. For example the plurality of pixels are arranged so as to form a pixel array including more than 1000 rows and more than 1500 columns. In another case the plurality of pixels may be arranged in a line so as to form a line sensor.

Signals from the pixels included in a single pixel column may be processed in common circuitry. In the following description exemplary one of the pixel columns will be explained. The other pixel columns may have the same structure configuration and or circuitry as the exemplary one.

The pixel includes at least a photoelectric conversion unit and a pixel amplification unit. Incident light may be converted into a charge by the photoelectric conversion unit. The pixel amplification unit may output a current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit. Thus the pixel may be a signal source configured to output a current signal. The pixel includes OUT node via which the current signal from the pixel is output. The pixel may further include a BIAS node via which a bias current is provided from a bias current source and a plurality of nodes PTX node PRES node and PSEL node via which drive signals are provided. The detailed structure of the pixel will be described later.

The BIAS node of the pixel is electrically connected to the bias current source . A plurality of the pixel may be electrically connected to the common bias current source . For example the pixels included in a single pixel column are electrically connected to the common bias current source . In another case a bias current source may be provided for each of the pixels in the pixel column.

The PTX node the PRES node and the PSEL node are electrically connected to the vertical scanning circuit . The vertical scanning circuit may provide a common drive signal for the pixels included in a single pixel row. Further the vertical scanning circuit may provide the pixels included in different rows from each other with independent drive signals. According to the drive signals the vertical scanning circuit provides the signals are read out from the pixels on the pixel row basis. In addition similar to the PRES node is shown in a dotted enclosure to indicate that there is another alternative embodiment shown in a dotted enclosure which has two nodes PRES and PRES that correspond to two reset control signals.

The OUT node of the pixel is electrically connected to a first output line . The OUT nodes of a plurality of the pixels may be electrically connected to the common first output line . For example the OUT nodes of the pixels included in a single pixel column are electrically connected to the common first output line . Thus the current signals from the plurality of the pixels may be output to the first output line .

The first output line is electrically connected to the current mirror circuit. An output node of the current mirror circuit is electrically connected to a second output line . The current mirror circuit includes an input side transistor and an output side transistor . The input side and output side transistors are P type channel MOS Metal Oxide Semiconductor transistors. The gate and the drain of the input side transistor are shorted. The source of the input side transistor is electrically connected to a power source line. The power source line may provide the source of the input side transistor with a power source voltage VDD. The gate of the output side transistor is electrically connected to the gate of the input side transistor . The source of the output side transistor is electrically connected to a power source line. The power source line may provide the source of the output side transistor with a power source voltage VDD. The first output line is electrically connected to the drain of the input side transistor and the gates which are shorted to the drain of the input side transistor . The drain of the output side transistor is electrically connected to the second output line .

In the current mirror circuit a current running through the input side transistor may be mirrored in the output side transistor . In other words the current mirror circuit may output a current signal a mirrored current signal corresponding to the current signal at the first output line into the second output line . The current mirror circuit may output the mirror current signal which is amplified or attenuated with respected to the current signal at the first output line . The amplification or attenuation factor may be determined according to a ratio of the sizes of the input and output side transistors . For example in case that the input and output side transistors have the substantially same channel length the amplification or attenuation factor may be the ratio of the channel widths.

The current signal at the second output line is input to the A D convertor and converted into a digital signal. The A D convertor includes a comparator . The comparator has a signal input node a reference current input node and output node . The second output line is electrically connected to the signal input node . The reference current input node of the comparator is electrically connected to a ramp current signal source .

The comparator may compare the current signal input to the signal input node with a ramp current signal which is the reference current signal and output a voltage signal corresponding to the amplitude relationship of the current signals. In detail the comparator may output a first voltage when the current signal from the pixel is larger than the ramp current signal. The comparator may output a second voltage which is different from the first voltage when the ramp current signal is larger than the current signal from the pixel . For example the first voltage may be near the ground voltage GND and the second voltage near the power source VDD or vice versa. The detailed structure of the comparator will be described later.

The ramp current signal source outputs the ramp current signal whose amplitude may be continuously variable. In another case the ramp current signal source outputs the ramp current signal whose amplitude may vary step by step according to a clock signal CLK. The ramp current signal source is provided with a ramp reset signal via a reset node. According to the ramp reset signal the ramp current signal is reset to an initial value. The detailed structure of the ramp current signal source will be described later.

The A D convertor of the present embodiment includes a latch pulse generator memory N latch circuit and S latch circuit and a counter . The output node of the comparator is electrically connected to the latch pulse generator . The latch pulse generator may be provided with drive signals PTN and PTS. According to the drive signals PTN and PTS a node to which the latch pulse is output may be selected. The latch pulse generator outputs a latch pulse selectively into N latch circuit or into S latch circuit based on a timing of an inversion of the voltage signal the comparator outputs.

The N latch circuit and the S latch circuit are provided with count value from the counter . When the latch pulse is input the N latch circuit and the S latch circuit may store the count value the counter is outputting at the time.

The counter counts up or down and outputs the count value according to the clock signal CLK. When a counter reset signal is provided via a reset node of the counter the count value is reset to an initial value. The count value corresponding to the amplitude of the current signal may be stored in the latch circuit by synchronized drive signals provided for the ramp current signal source and the counter . Thus the current signal is converted into a digital signal.

The memory the N latch circuit and the S latch circuit is electrically connected to an output portion. In detail the N latch circuit is connected to an output circuit via a third output line and the S latch circuit is connected to the output circuit via the fourth output line .

The horizontal scanning circuit provides each of the latch circuits with a drive signal. According to the drive signal from the horizontal scanning circuit each of the latch circuits outputs the stored count value as the digital signal into the output circuit .

The output circuit may include LVDS Low Voltage Differential Signaling circuit. Additionally the output circuit may digitally process the digital signals from the latch circuits . For example the output circuit may output differential between the digital signal of the S latch circuit and the digital signal of the N latch circuit .

As described above a signal from the pixel which is a signal source is converted into a digital signal and is output to the outside of the photoelectric conversion device.

Hereinafter an exemplary structure of the pixel will be described in detail. The pixel includes at least the photoelectric conversion unit and the pixel amplification unit. Incident light may be converted into a charge by the photoelectric conversion unit. The pixel amplification unit may output a current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit.

The anode of the PD is provided with a ground voltage GND. The cathode of the PD is electrically connected to a node via the transfer transistor . The transfer transistor transfers the charges generated at the PD to the node .

The gate of the first input transistor is electrically connected to the node . The gate of the first input transistor is a first input node of the differential amplifier. The voltage at the gate of the first input transistor may be a voltage corresponding to the amount of charges which are transferred to the node . In another aspect the transferred charges are converted into a voltage signal at the node . The drain of the first input transistor is electrically connected to the power source line. The power source line may provide the drain of the first input transistor with a power source voltage SVDD. The power source voltage SVDD may be the same as the power source voltage VDD which provided for the current mirror circuit. In another case the power source voltage SVDD and the power source voltage VDD may be different from each other. The source of the first input transistor is electrically connected to the drain of the first selection transistor via the resistor R.

The gate of the second input transistor is electrically connected to a source of the connection transistor . The gate of the second input transistor is a second input node of the differential amplifier. The source of the second input transistor is electrically connected to the drain of the first selection transistor via the resistor R. The drain of the second input transistor is electrically connected to the source of the second selection transistor .

The node is electrically connected to the reset voltage line via the reset transistor . When the reset transistor is turned on the node is provided with the reset voltage VRES. In other words the reset transistor may reset the voltage of the first input node of the differential amplifier.

The connection transistor is provided in an electrical path between the gate of the first input transistor the node and the gate of the second input transistor . In other words one of the source and the drain of the connection transistor is electrically connected to the gate of the first input transistor and the other to the gate of the second input transistor . When the connection transistor is turned on the gate of the first input transistor and the gate of the second input transistor are shorted to each other. When both of the reset transistor and the connection transistor are turned on the reset voltage VRES may be provided for the gate of the second input transistor via the reset transistor and the connection transistor .

The drain of the first selection transistor is electrically connected to the resistor R and the resistor R. The source of the first selection transistor is electrically connected to the BIAS node. The drain of the second selection transistor is electrically connected to the OUT node. The BIAS node is electrically connected to the bias current source and the OUT node is electrically connected to the first output line .

The gate of the transfer transistor is electrically connected to the PTX node. The gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor are electrically connected to the PRES node. The gates of the first and second selection transistors are electrically connected to the PSEL node. The vertical scanning circuit provides each gate of the transistors with a drive signal for controlling each of the transistors into on or off.

In the gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor are electrically connected to each other as shown in the dotted enclosure. In another case the gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor may be provided with independent drive signals PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure . In this case the reset transistor and the connection transistor may be controlled independently from each other. For example when the both of the reset transistor and the connection transistor are on the reset transistor is firstly turned off thereafter the connection transistor is turned off.

The first input transistor and the second input transistor may form a differential pair. That is the sources of the two transistors are electrically connected to the common bias current source . A drain current of the second input transistor which is the current signal to be output from the pixel corresponds to the difference of the voltages at the gates of the two transistors . Thus the differential pair of the first input transistor and the second input transistor is included in the differential amplifier.

The first and second selection transistors may select a pixel which outputs the current signal out of the plurality of the pixels . In detail when both of the first and second selection transistors are on the differential amplifier may output the current signal via the OUT node.

In a second reset transistor may be provided in an electrical path between the gate of the second input transistor and the reset voltage line. In this case accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the differential amplifier may be improved.

Other exemplary structure of the pixel will be described in detail. illustrates an equivalent circuit of the pixel according to one or more embodiments. The reset transistor in is omitted in . Two transistors the transfer transistor and the connection transistor are connected to the gate of the first input transistor . Two transistors the second reset transistor and the connection transistor are connected to the gate of the second input transistor . Accordingly since the same number of the transistors is connected to each of the first and second input node of the differential amplifier the accuracy of the current signal may be improved. In addition as in the gates of the transistor and the second reset transistor are shown tied together in a dotted enclosure. In another embodiment the gates of these two transistors may be independently controlled by PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure .

In the first and second selection transistors are provided for selection of the pixel. Providing the first selection transistor may reduce power consumption by cutting the current when the pixel is in a non selective state. Providing the second selection transistor may reduce the parasitic capacitance of the first output line .

One of the first and second selection transistors may be omitted. In case the second selection transistor is omitted the accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the two input nodes of the differential amplifier may be improved.

Further a third selection transistor may be provided in an electrical path between the drain of the first input transistor and the power source line. In case both of the second and third selection transistors are provided accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the differential amplifier may be improved.

In another case both of the first and second selection transistors may be omitted. In this case the pixel may be set in non selective state by providing the gate of the first and second input transistors with a voltage such that the both transistors are turned off. For example such voltage may be provided from the reset voltage line. In case both of the first and second selection transistors are omitted the fill factor of the pixel may be improved by reduction of the number of the pixel transistors.

Further the pixel configuration in may change such that a charge of the PD may be transferred to the gate of the second input transistor . In other words the transfer transistor may be provided not in an electrical path between the PD and the gate of the first input transistor but in an electrical path between the PD and the gate of the second input transistor . In this case since the same number of the transistors is connected to each of the first and second input node of the differential amplifier the accuracy of the current signal may be improved. Each gate of the first and second input transistors may be set in an electrically floating state after the reset voltage VRES is provided. Accordingly the current signal corresponding to the difference of the voltages between the two input nodes may be output regardless of which one of the two input node the charge of the PD is transferred to.

In the connection transistor is connected to the two input nodes of the differential amplifier. Accordingly the reset noise which is generated when the input nodes are reset may be substantially equally divided into the two input nodes. Since the divided noises may cancel each other by the differential amplification noises in the current signal may be reduced.

As shown in in one or more embodiments the circuit for reading out the current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated in the photoelectric conversion unit into the first output line which is illustrated in each of is repeatedly or periodically arranged. That is the circuit illustrated in any one of is provided each of the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units. In other words transistors included in the readout portion are repeatedly or periodically arranged so as to corresponding to a plurality of the pixels whose signals are output to the common output line the first output line .

In other embodiments the circuit illustrated in any one of may be repeatedly or periodically provided for every two or more of the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units. In detail charges of two photoelectric conversion units may be transferred into the gate of the first input transistor which is commonly provided for the two photoelectric conversion units. In this case a plurality of the photoelectric conversion units may share the transistors other than the transfer transistor. Therefore the fill factor of the pixel may be improved by reduction of the number of the pixel transistors.

In the present embodiment the transistors each of which is repeatedly or periodically provided so as to correspond to the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units may have the same conductivity type. Specifically the first and second input transistors the transfer transistor the first and second selection transistors the reset transistor and the connection transistor are respectively N type channel MOS transistors. In this case since a single conductivity type of a well may be provided in the pixel the fill factor of the pixel which is a ratio of a region that the photoelectric conversion unit occupies to a region of a single pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved. However a part of these transistors may have a different conductivity type from the others.

In the present embodiment the electron may be used as the signal charge and the N type channel transistors may be provided in the pixel. In this case since the photoelectric conversion unit and the transistors may be provided in the same well the fill factor of the pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved. When a hole is used as the signal charge P type channel transistors may be used.

An element which is not repeatedly arranged but is provided commonly for a plurality of the photoelectric conversion units may be included in the circuit for reading out the current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated in the photoelectric conversion unit into the first output line . For example the bias current source in may be included in the circuit for reading out or the readout portion because it may drive the differential amplifier by providing the bias current. In the bias current source however is provided for each of the plurality of the pixel rows. Thus the bias current source is not an element which is repeatedly or periodically arranged so as to correspond to the plurality of the photoelectric conversion units whose signals are to be output to the common output line the first output line . Thus the bias current source may include a P type channel transistor.

The element isolation portion may include an isolation structure such as LOCOS Local Oxidation of Silicon or STI Shallow Trench Isolation . In another case the element isolation portion may include an isolation structure using a PN junction. The element isolation portion may electrically isolate the PD and the transistors.

In the present embodiment the MOS transistors are used in the pixel. Each transistor has a source region a drain region a gate electrode and a channel region. The source region the drain region and the channel region are semiconductor regions provided in the semiconductor substrate. The gate electrode may be formed of a poly silicon provided on the semiconductor substrate via an insulator film.

The PD includes a semiconductor region . The first input transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The second input transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate respectively. The semiconductor regions and may respectively form the resistors R and R. The transfer transistor may include a gate electrode as the gate. The first selection transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate. The second selection transistor may include semiconductor regions and the gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate respectively. The reset transistor may include semiconductor regions and a gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate respectively. The connection transistor may include the semiconductor regions and the gate electrode as the source the drain and the gate respectively.

Contact plugs are provided for the gate electrode and the semiconductor regions each of which forms the source or the drain. The semiconductor regions and the gate electrode may be connected to conductive members included in interconnections via the contact plugs . For example the semiconductor region and the gate electrode are connected to each other by the interconnection and form the node in .

As shown in two nodes which are supposed to be electrically connected to each other may be formed of a common semiconductor region or a common gate electrode. For example since the drain of the second input transistor may be connected to the source of the second selection transistor both nodes are formed of the semiconductor region . In another case however the two nodes may be formed of two separated semiconductor regions. The gate of the reset transistor and the gate of the connection transistor may be formed of two separated gate electrodes to correspond to two reset control signals PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure . Although in the resistors R and R are formed of the semiconductor regions and the resistors R and R may be thin film resistors formed of poly silicon as the like.

As shown in the structure from the gate electrode to the gate electrode may have symmetry with respect to a line. In this case the accuracy of the current signal may be improved because the symmetrical characteristic of the differential amplifier may be improved.

The PD includes an N type semiconductor region . The N type semiconductor region may accumulate generated charges therein. The first input transistor may include N type semiconductor regions and as the source and the drain. Accordingly the first input transistor may have an N type channel. These N type semiconductor regions may be provided in a P type well . The P type well may be provided with the ground voltage GND.

The P type well may be a semiconductor region formed by diffusing or implanting impurities into the semiconductor substrate. In another case the P type well may be formed by an epitaxial layer grown on the semiconductor substrate.

A P type semiconductor region is provided adjacent to the N type semiconductor region of the PD . The P type semiconductor region may be connected to the P type well and be provided with the ground voltage GND. The P type semiconductor region may reduce a noise caused by a dark current generated at the interface of the semiconductor substrate and an insulator.

In case the transistors which included in the pixel circuit have the same conductivity type a single conductivity type of a well may be used in the pixel as shown in . Therefore the fill factor of the pixel which is a ratio of a region that the photoelectric conversion unit occupies to a region of a single pixel may be improved.

In the present embodiment the PD which accumulates the electron may be formed by providing N type semiconductor region in the P type well . In this case since the photoelectric conversion unit and the transistors may be provided in the same well the fill factor of the pixel may be improved. Therefore sensitivity and or a saturation amount of charges may be improved. When hole is used as the signal charge P type channel transistors may be used and vice versa.

If two wells having different conductive type from each other are provided a PN junction may be formed between the two wells. In this case the elements are provided with a distance from the PN junction in order to avoid the influence the electrical field caused by the PN junction may impose on.

As shown in light may enter the semiconductor substrate in a direction indicated by L. That is the photoelectric conversion device illustrated in is a front side illuminated type.

The photoelectric conversion device illustrated in is a back side illuminated type. In detail light may enter the semiconductor substrate from a side back side opposite to a side front side on which the gate electrodes of the transistors are provided. The reference symbol L in indicates a direction in which light may enter the semiconductor substrate.

The same reference symbols are used to indicate elements in and which perform the same or a similar function and detailed descriptions of the elements are not repeated. A conductive member included in an interconnection is shown in . Further a color filter and a lens may be provided on the back side of the semiconductor substrate.

In the back side illuminated type photoelectric conversion device conductive members and gate electrodes which may shield incident light may be reduced on a side back side though which the incident light may enter the semiconductor substrate. Accordingly the sensitivity may be improved.

The photoelectric conversion device of the present embodiment may include a second semiconductor substrate. The second semiconductor substrate may include transistors in the circuit for reading out the current signal from the pixels or the signal processing circuit. The second semiconductor substrate may be provided on a first side of the conductive member the first side being opposite to a second side of the conductive member on which the PD is provided. In another aspect of view the first semiconductor substrate where the PD is provided and the second semiconductor substrate where the transistors are provided may be arranged so as to face to each other with the conductive member included in the interconnection therebetween. In this case the fill factor of the pixel may be improved by reduction of the number of the pixel transistors which are provided in the same semiconductor substrate as the PD .

Hereinafter an exemplary structure of the ramp current signal source will be described in detail. illustrates an equivalent circuit of the ramp current signal source according to one or more embodiments. The ramp current signal source may include a current output circuit and a current mirror circuit. The current output circuit may output a current corresponding to an input voltage. The current mirror may dispense the current from the current output circuit to a plurality of the comparators .

The current output circuit included in the ramp current signal source of the present embodiment may be a differential amplifier. The differential amplifier of the ramp current signal source may include a third input transistor and a fourth input transistor . The third input transistor and the fourth input transistor may form a differential pair. The sources of the third and fourth input transistors and are electrically connected to a bias current source respectively via resistors R and R. The drain of the third input transistor may be provided with the power source voltage SVDD. The drain of the fourth input transistor is electrically connected to the current mirror circuit of the ramp current signal source .

The gate of the third input transistor is electrically connected to a DAC Digital to Analog Convertor . The DAC outputs a voltage signal whose amplitude may vary step by step according to a clock signal CLK. According to the drive signal RESET provided for the DAC the voltage signal is reset to an initial value. The gate of the second input transistor is provided with the reset voltage VRES.

The drain current of the second input transistor may vary on the basis of the voltage signal the DAC outputs. The drain current of the second input transistor may be the ramp current signal.

The current mirror circuit of the ramp current signal source mirrors the drain current of the second input transistor and input mirrored currents to the plurality of the comparators . An OUT node is electrically connected to the reference current input node of the comparator provided for the leftward column in . An OUT node is electrically connected to the reference current input node of the comparator provided for the middle column in . An OUTS node is electrically connected to the reference current input node of the comparator provided for the rightward column in . The number of output side transistors of the current mirror circuit of the ramp current signal source may correspond to the number of the comparators . In another case the ramp current signal source may be provided for each of the plurality of the comparators . In this case the current mirror circuit for dispensing the ramp current signals may be omitted.

The current output circuit included in the ramp current signal source may have the same structure as or a similar structure to the pixel amplification unit. In the present embodiment the same differential amplifier is used for the ramp current signal source . Further the ramp current signal source may include a dummy transistor which may correspond to the pixel transistor such as the reset transistor the selection transistor or the connection transistor. In detail the ramp current signal source may be a circuit which substitutes the DAC for the PD of the circuit illustrated in any one of . In the case where the current output circuit included in the ramp current signal source has the same structure as or a similar structure to the pixel amplification unit the linearity in analog to digital conversion may be improved.

In another exemplary ramp current signal source a voltage source including a constant current source and a capacitor may substitute for DAC . Since the constant current source is configured to charge the capacitor by a constant current a voltage signal whose amplitude may be continuously variable may emerge at the capacitor. Accordingly the ramp current signal source outputs the ramp current signal whose amplitude may be continuously variable.

The direction in which the ramp current signal varies i.e. upward or downward may be determined in accordance with the conductivity type of the signal charge and the conductivity type of the input transistors . The amplitude of the ramp current signal may vary in a direction from amplitude of the current signal that the pixel outputs in a dark situation to amplitude of the current signal that the pixel outputs in a bright situation. The dark situation may include a situation where the voltage of the node has been reset and charges are not transferred to the node .

In the electron is used as the signal charge and is transferred to the node which is the gate of the first input transistor . The transfer of the electron may lower the voltage of the node . The more the charges are transferred the lower the voltage of the node may become. Since in the bright situation a large amount of charges may be transferred to the node the voltage of the node may be low. Since the input transistors have N type channels the amplitude of the current signal may be larger in the bright situation than in the dark situation. In this case the ramp current signal whose amplitude varies from small to large or upward may be used.

In another case the electron of the PD may be transferred to the gate of the second input transistor . In this case the more the charges are transferred the smaller the amplitude of the current signal may become. Thus the ramp current signal whose amplitude varies from large to small or downward may be used.

In the case where the hole is used as the signal charge the above mentioned direction in which the amplitude of the ramp current signal varies may be inverted. Further the case where the input transistors have P type channels the above mentioned direction in which the amplitude of the ramp current signal varies may be inverted.

Hereinafter an exemplary structure of the comparator will be described in detail. illustrates an equivalent circuit of the comparator according to one or more embodiments. The comparator may transmit the current signal input to the signal input node and the reference current signal input to the reference current input node to the output node . According to the amplitude relationship of the current signals the comparator may vary the voltage of the output node .

In an INN node corresponds to the signal input node . An INP node corresponds to the reference current input node . An OUT node corresponds to the output node .

When a current is input to the INN node the current may be transmitted to the OUT node via a first current mirror circuit . When a current is input to the INP node the current may be transmitted to the OUT node via a second current mirror circuit and a third current mirror circuit .

The OUT node is electrically connected to a ground voltage line via an output side transistor of the first current mirror circuit . Further the OUT node is electrically connected to a power source voltage line via an output side transistor of the third current mirror circuit .

The current input via the INN node the current signal from the pixel may discharge the OUT node. On the other hand the current input via the INP node the ramp current signal may charge up the OUT node.

When the current signal from the pixel is larger than the ramp current signal the voltage of the OUT node may be or get closer to the ground voltage GND a first voltage . When the ramp current signal is larger than the current signal from the pixel the voltage of the OUT node may be or get closer to the power source voltage VDD a second voltage .

The current signals are transmitted to the OUT node via the current mirror circuits and . Since the OUT node has two transistors connected thereto the capacitance of the OUT node may be reduced. Therefore when the amplitude relationship of the current signal from the pixel and the ramp current signal is inverted the voltage of the output node the OUT node of the comparator may quickly change. Thus the speed in analog to digital conversion may be improved.

In each of the current input via the INN node and the current input via the INP node is transmitted to the OUT node via the current mirror circuit. In this case the two transistors which connected to the OUT node may be arranged to be close to each other. Accordingly a short wire may be used for the OUT node. Thus the capacitance of the OUT node may be reduced.

Hereinafter another exemplary structure of the comparator will be described in detail. illustrates an equivalent circuit of the comparator according to one or more embodiments. In an INN node corresponds to the signal input node . An INP node corresponds to the reference current input node . An OUT node corresponds to the output node .

The INN node may be the OUT node. Thus the voltage of the second output line which is electrically connected to the INN node may vary according to the amplitude relationship of the current signals.

Although the first output line is electrically connected to the plurality of the pixels the second output line is electrically connected to the first output line via the current mirror circuit. Accordingly only the output side transistor of the current mirror circuit may be connected to the second output line . Thus even in the case where the second output line and the output node are the same node speed in analog to digital conversion may be improved.

The current input to the INP node may be transmitted to the OUT node via only the first current mirror circuit . Thus the A D convertor may be reduced in scale.

In the comparator illustrated in the current input via the INN node the current signal from the pixel may charge up the OUT node. On the other hand the current input via the INP node the ramp current signal may discharge the OUT node.

When the current signal from the pixel is larger than the ramp current signal the voltage of the OUT node may be or get closer to power source voltage VDD a first voltage . When the ramp current signal is larger than the current signal from the pixel the voltage of the OUT node may be or get closer to the ground voltage GND a second voltage .

Hereinafter an exemplary operation for the photoelectric conversion device according to one or more embodiments will be described. is a timing chart of the drive signals. The drive signals PSEL PRES PTX PTN and PTS illustrated in are respectively provided for the PSEL node the PRES node the PTX node the PTN node and the PTS node illustrated in .

The drive signal RESET represents the ramp reset signal which is provided for the RESET node of the ramp current signal source and the counter reset signal which is provided for the RESET node of the counter . Since the ramp reset signal and the counter reset signal may synchronize with each other the drive signal RESET in represents both of the two signals. In another case provided may be the ramp reset signal and the counter reset signal which are not synchronized.

Each of the drive signals may have at least two values which correspond to a high level and a low level. In analog circuits the high level of the drive signal may turn on the corresponding transistor. The low level of the drive signal may turn off the corresponding transistor.

Before T the PRES and RESET are of high levels. In another embodiment where there are two independent reset control signals PRES and PRES as shown in a dotted enclosure both the PRES and PRES are of high levels. The other drive signals are of low levels. At this time the reset voltage VRES is provided for the node and the gate of the second input transistor . Since the drive signal RESET is a high level each of the ramp current signal source and the counter is in a state of being reset or of outputting the initial value.

At T the PSEL turns into a high level whereby the pixel may be selected. Thus the current signal according to the voltage of the input node of the pixel amplification unit may be output via the OUT node.

At T the PRES turns into a low level whereby the node may become electrically floating. In another embodiment where there are two independent reset control signals PRES and PRES as shown in the PRES signal turns into a low level first. After a time interval T the PRES signal turns into a low level. In the pixel illustrated in the node and the gate of the second input transistor may become electrically floating.

At T the RESET turns into a low level and the PTN turns into a high level. With the RESET s turning into the low level the amplitude of the ramp current signal may start to change from the initial value. In the present embodiment the amplitude of the ramp current signal may change upward. Further the counter may start to count at this time.

At T the voltage of the input node node of the pixel amplification unit is the reset voltage VRES. Accordingly a current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset is compared with the ramp current signal. The current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset may contain a reset nose which is generated when the reset transistor turns off.

At the inversion of the amplitude relationship between the ramp current signal and the current signal from the pixel at T the latch pulse is input to the N latch circuit whereby the N latch circuit may store the count value at T.

At T the RESET turns into a high level whereby the ramp current signal source and the counter are reset. Then the PTN turns into a low level.

At T the PTX turns into a high level whereby the charge generated at PD may be transferred to the node . At this time the whole charges of the PD may be transferred to the node . After a period passes since T the PTX turns into a low level.

By the transfer of the charges to the node the voltage of the node may change from the reset voltage VRES. The amount of the voltage change may be defined by the amount of the charges transferred. On the other hand the voltage of the gate of the second input transistor may be kept at the reset voltage VRES. Thus the voltage difference according to the amount of the charges may emerge between the two input nodes of the differential amplifier and the differential amplifier may output the current signal according to the voltage difference.

At T the RESET turns into a low level and the PTN turns into a high level. With the RESET s turning into the low level the amplitude of the ramp current signal may start to change from the initial value. Further the counter may start to count at this time. Since the PTN is the high level the count value from the counter is input to the S latch circuit .

At T the voltage of the input node node of the pixel amplification unit is a voltage corresponding to the amount of the charges generated by the incident light. Accordingly a current signal corresponding to the amount of the incident light is compared with the ramp current signal. The current signal corresponding to the amount of the incident light may contain a reset nose which is generated when the reset transistor turns off.

At the inversion of the amplitude relationship between the ramp current signal and the current signal from the pixel at T the latch pulse is input to the S latch circuit whereby the S latch circuit may store the count value at T.

At T the RESET turns into a high level and then the analog to digital conversion may be accomplished. From T the output portion may start to output the digital signals.

In the pixel corresponding to a timing of turning off the reset transistor and a timing of turning off the connection transistor may be offset. In detail the reset transistor turns off before the connection transistor turns off. This is illustrated by the timing shown in the enclosure in . By this order of the operation the reset noises which is generated when the reset transistor turns off may be substantially equally divided into the two input nodes. As the result since the divided noises may cancel each other by the differential amplification noises in the current signal may be reduced.

The read out of the current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset may be omitted. Even though the read out of the current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset is omitted an offset noise of the pixel and the reset noise may be reduced because the pixel amplification unit is the differential amplifier. However with the read out of the current signal that the pixel outputs when in a state of being reset offset noises generated in the subsequent states of the pixel may be reduced.

Hereinafter another exemplary operation for the photoelectric conversion device according to one or more embodiments will be described. In this operation the drive signal PSEL may be provided parallel for the pixels in a plurality of the pixel rows. Thus the pixels in the plurality of the pixel rows may simultaneously output the current signals to the same first output line . According to this way of operation the current signals may be summed up or averaged at the first output line . In this case each of the drive signals PSEL PRES PTX may be provided for the pixels in the plurality of the pixel rows simultaneously.

For addition of two current signals from two pixels the bias current source may output the bias current which has the amplitude twice as large as that of the bias current the bias current source may output when the current signal from a single pixel is individually output. Then each of the differential amplifiers of the two pixels may be provided with the bias current as large as that provided when the current signal from a single pixel is individually output. Accordingly the current signals to be added to each other or summed up may have respectively the same amplitude as output individually. In the case where the current signals from more than two pixels are summed up the bias current may be turned up in accordance with the number of the signals to be summed up. For the average of the current signals the bias current may be set in the same amplitude when the current signal from a single pixel is being output.

The current signal from the pixel may be amplified or attenuated in the analog to digital conversion by controlling the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit of the ramp current signal source . In the case where two current signals are added for example the amplification factor may be set in two.

As described above the pixel includes the differential amplifier. And the transistors included in pixel have the same conductivity type. Thus in one or more embodiments sensitivity may be improved.

As described above in the present embodiment the current signal from the pixel is mirrored by the current mirror circuit and the mirrored signal is compared with the ramp current signal. According to the embodiment it may be possible to compare the current signal from each of the signal sources with the reference current signal even though those signal sources are not connected to the comparator especially the output node of the comparator. It may be possible to reduce the parasitic capacitance of the output node where a voltage signal representing a result of the comparison may be output. Hence the comparison of the current signals may be conducted in a short time.

In the present embodiment the A D convertor is provided for each pixel column. In the A D convertor the voltage of the output node may change from the first voltage to the second voltage or otherwise when the amplitude relationship of the current signal from the pixel and the ramp current signal is inverted. In other words the voltage of the output node may be inverted. If it takes long to invert the voltage of the output node since the inversion of the amplitude relationship the generation of the latch pulse may be delayed. Since the counter may continue to count up because of the delay of the latch pulse the latch circuit may store a wrong count value. For prevention the above mentioned error a clock signal of a low frequency may be used which results in a deterioration in the speed of the analog to digital conversion.

On the contrary in the present embodiment since the parasitic capacitance of the output node may be reduced the voltage of the output node may be quickly inverted. As a result the above mentioned error may be reduced when a clock signal of a high frequency is used. Hence speed of the analog to digital conversion may be improved.

The photoelectric conversion device of the present embodiment includes a plurality of pixels a current mirror circuit an analog to digital convertor A D convertor an output portion a vertical scanning circuit and a horizontal scanning circuit. In each of the pixels incident light may be converted into a charge. The vertical scanning circuit provides the pixels with drive signals. In accordance with the drive signals a current signal corresponding to the amount of charges generated by the photoelectric conversion unit is output from the pixel. The current signal from the pixel is input to the A D convertor via the current mirror circuit. The A D convertor converts the current signal which is output from the pixel as an analog signal into a digital signal. According to drive signals the horizontal scanning circuit provides the digital signal is read out to the output portion. The output portion outputs the digital signal to the outside of the device.

In the present embodiment the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit is controllable. The other features may be the same as the above described embodiment. The detailed explanation of the same features as the above described embodiment is not repeated.

The current mirror circuit includes an input side transistor and three output side transistors and . The input and output side transistors are P type channel MOS transistors.

The gate and the drain of the input side transistor are shorted. The source of the input side transistor is electrically connected to a power source line. The power source line may provide the source of the input side transistor with a power source voltage VDD. The first output line is electrically connected to the drain of the input side transistor and the gate which is shorted to the drain of the input side transistor .

The output side transistors and are arranged in parallel. In detail the sources of the output side transistors and are respectively connected to the power source line. The power source line may provide the sources of the output side transistors and with the power source voltage VDD. The gates of the output side transistors and are respectively connected to the gate of the input side transistor . The drains of the output side transistors and are respectively connected to the second output line .

The input side transistor and the first and second output side transistors have the substantially same channel widths. The third output side transistor has twice as a wide channel width as the input side transistor . The input and output side transistors and have the substantially same channel length.

A first gain control switch is arranged in an electrical path between the drain of the second output side transistor and the second output line . The first gain control switch is a P type channel MOS transistor. A drive signal GAIN may control the first gain control switch to be turned on or off.

A second gain control switch is arranged in an electrical path between the drain of the third output side transistor and the second output line . The second gain control switch is a P type channel MOS transistor. A drive signal GAIN may control the second gain control switch to be turned on or off.

The first and second gain control switches and may control the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit. The first and second gain control switches and may be included in an amplification factor control portion. By the two gain control switches and four of gains are to be set.

When both of the first and second gain control switches and are turned off the second and third output side transistors and are disconnected from the second output line . Accordingly only the first output side transistor of the three may be connected to the second output line . In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 1.

When the first gain control switch is turned on and the second gain control switch is turned off the third output side transistors is disconnected from the second output line . Accordingly the first and second output side transistors and of the three may be connected to the second output line . Since the output side transistors are arranged in parallel a virtual output side transistor which has twice as a wide channel width as the input side transistor may be considered. In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 2.

When the first gain control switch is turned off and the second gain control switch is turned on the second output side transistors is disconnected from the second output line . Accordingly the first and third output side transistors and of the three may be connected to the second output line . Since the output side transistors are arranged in parallel a virtual output side transistor which has three times as a wide channel width as the input side transistor may be considered. In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 3.

When both of the first and second gain control switches and are turned on all of the three output side transistors and may be connected to the second output line . Since the output side transistors are arranged in parallel a virtual output side transistor which has four times as a wide channel width as the input side transistor may be considered. In this case the mirrored current signal may be output at the amplification factor of about 4.

In three output side transistors are arranged. However the number of the output side transistors is not limited to three. According to the size of each of the transistors the amplification factor may be determined.

In the case where the current signals from the pixels are individually output the amplification factor may be changed. For example the amplification factor may be controlled to be large when the current signal from the pixel has a small amplitude while being small when the current signal from the pixel has a large amplitude.

The amplification factor may be changed between the case where the current signal from a single pixel is output and the case where the current signals from a plurality of the pixels are simultaneously output. For adding or averaging the current signals a small amplification factor may be used. The small amplification factor may result in a large dynamic range at the subsequent stages.

An exemplary structure of the pixel may be the same as the above described embodiment. The equivalent circuit of the pixel is illustrated in . The exemplary planar and cross sectional structures of the pixel are illustrated in .

An exemplary operation for the photoelectric conversion device according to the present embodiment may be the same as the above described embodiment. The photoelectric conversion device may be operated according to the drive signals illustrated in .

In the present embodiment since the amplification factor of the current mirror circuit is controllable a wide dynamic range and a high signal to noise ratio SN ratio may be obtained. For capturing a dark object the SN ratio may be improved because of a high gain of the current mirror circuit. For capturing a bright object which is less effected by noises dynamic range may be improved because of a low gain of the current mirror circuit.

While the disclosure has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Applications No. 2011 274891 filed Dec. 15 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

