---

title: System and method for providing sponsored applications in email
abstract: A method and system for providing targeted applications within an electronic message interface. The method comprises retrieving content from a user's electronic message in the electronic message interface, parsing and interpreting the user's context from the content, and accepting bidding on the user's interpreted context from one or more applications, the one or more applications including triggering conditions related to the user's interpreted context. The one or more applications are ranked based on the bidding. The method further comprises loading the one or more applications into the electronic message interface based on the ranking, and providing one or more follow-up transactions associated with the one or more loaded applications based on the user's interpreted context.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111291&OS=09111291&RS=09111291
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09111291
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120619
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 981 860 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING CONTEXTUAL ACTIONS ON A SEARCH RESULTS PAGE filed on Dec. 30 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application generally relates to providing targeted contextual applications in an electronic message environment. More specifically the application is directed towards systems and methods for parsing electronic message context determining relevant transactions with companies and presenting one or more applications in the electronic message environment.

A large portion of email messages received today by users are in the form of automatically generated commercial messages such as those sent by companies organizations and service providers to individuals. Although some of these automated messages may include spam and random advertisements and offerings other messages result from a user s direct interaction or affiliation with a company. For example these messages may include the result of transactions that a user has performed with companies such as travel itinerary confirmation reservation reminders eCommerce receipts etc. With such increases in messages related to a user s purchases and interests additional opportunities for product and service solicitation can be created.

In the current state of the art some email services may display advertisements in conjunction with a user s email interface similar to how advertisements are displayed next to search results provided by a search engine. GMAIL provided by GOOGLE inc. is an exemplary email service that displays advertisements in the email interface. However these advertisements merely provide simple text only ads with static hyperlinks that direct users to an advertiser s home webpage when selected.

Current email services lack customized advertising for facilitating follow up transactions based on a user s current context. Thus there exists a need to provide contextual applications for making actions available to potential clients in anticipation of a user s goal when they are in a mood or state of mind to pursue these services based on their email contexts.

The present application provides methods and systems for providing targeted transactional applications within an electronic message interface. The method according to one embodiment comprises retrieving content from a user s electronic message in the electronic message interface parsing and interpreting the user s context from the content and accepting bidding on the user s interpreted context from one or more applications wherein the one or more applications include triggering conditions related to the user s interpreted context. The one or more applications are ranked based on the bidding. The method further comprises loading the one or more applications into the electronic message interface based on the ranking and providing one or more follow up transactions associated with the one or more loaded applications based on the user s interpreted context.

According to one embodiment the retrieved content may be classified into at least one of a plurality of target audience segments and the one or more applications may be retrieved based on the at least one target audience segment of the retrieved content. The one or more follow up transactions may include at least one of purchases reservations registrations trades transfer of funds and information retrieval. In another embodiment parsing and interpreting the user s context comprises generating a tokenized form of the retrieved content. The tokenized form of the retrieved content may be associated with the one or more follow up transactions.

In accordance with some aspects the method comprises retrieving content from a user s electronic message in the electronic message interface parsing and interpreting the user s context from the content and facilitating bidding on the user s interpreted context by one or more applications the one or more applications including triggering conditions related to the user s interpreted context. The user s response to the one or more applications is predicted. The one or more applications are ranked based on the bidding and the predicted user s response. The method further includes providing the one or more applications in the electronic message interface based on the ranking.

The one or more applications may be instantiated by pre filling fields based on the content retrieved from the user s context. The retrieved content may be classified into at least one of a plurality of target audience segments and the one or more applications may be retrieved based on the at least one target audience segment of the retrieved content. According to one embodiment predicting the user response includes utilizing at least one of a user profile search history and electronic message activity. In another embodiment ranking the one or more applications includes ranking the one or more selected applications based on the one or more applications popularity. Ranking the one or more selected applications may also include ranking the one or more applications based on revenue. The one or more applications may be developed using an API associated with the electronic message interface.

Subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific example embodiments. Subject matter may however be embodied in a variety of different forms and therefore covered or claimed subject matter is intended to be construed as not being limited to any example embodiments set forth herein example embodiments are provided merely to be illustrative. Likewise a reasonably broad scope for claimed or covered subject matter is intended. Among other things for example subject matter may be embodied as methods devices components or systems. Accordingly embodiments may for example take the form of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof other than software per se . The following detailed description is therefore not intended to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims terms may have nuanced meanings suggested or implied in context beyond an explicitly stated meaning. Likewise the phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment. It is intended for example that claimed subject matter include combinations of example embodiments in whole or in part.

According to the present application third party companies may be presented with opportunities to conveniently offer follow up products or services to users based on the users previous activities with other companies entities or individuals. More specifically given an email message for example representing a transaction between a user and a company other third party companies may take advantage of the identification of the transaction and display follow up or peripheral transactions to the user along with the given email message. The display of transactions may include providing interactive applications that allow users to conduct purchases reservations registrations trades transfer of funds information retrieval etc. An email provider may receive bids from the third party companies to offer follow up transactions in the context of the given email message. Proposing such follow up transactions to a user in the right context e.g. while the user is reading an email of a transaction related to a follow up transaction may drive business to the follow up transaction company as well as allow the user to conveniently conduct additional transactions that are targeted to the user s current or real time context within an email interface. In addition to the benefits to users and third party companies the email provider may reap the benefit of monetizing the email service as it will charge companies whose transaction offers are shown to or used by users. The display of follow up transactions is not limited to email interfaces but can include various kinds of online messaging services such as blogs forums community Q A microblogging and social networking sites media sharing sites instant messaging online games or any other online service where users are able receive and send text based communications.

The term social network refers generally to a network of individuals such as acquaintances friends family colleagues or co workers coupled via a communications network or via a variety of sub networks. Potentially additional relationships may subsequently be formed as a result of social interaction via the communications network or sub networks. A social network may be employed for example to identify additional connections for a variety of activities including but not limited to dating job networking receiving or providing service referrals content sharing creating new associations maintaining existing associations identifying potential activity partners performing or supporting commercial transactions or the like. A social network may include individuals with similar experiences opinions education levels or backgrounds. Subgroups may exist or be created according to user profiles of individuals for example in which a subgroup member may belong to multiple subgroups. An individual may also have multiple 1 few associations within a social network such as for family college classmates or co workers.

A client device may vary in terms of capabilities or features. Claimed subject matter is intended to cover a wide range of potential variations. For example a cell phone may include a numeric keypad or a display of limited functionality such as a monochrome liquid crystal display LCD for displaying text. In contrast however as another example a web enabled client device may include one or more physical or virtual keyboards mass storage one or more accelerometers one or more gyroscopes global positioning system GPS or other location identifying type capability or a display with a high degree of functionality such as a touch sensitive color 2D or 3D display for example.

A client device may include or may execute a variety of operating systems including a personal computer operating system such as a Windows iOS or Linux or a mobile operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Mobile or the like. A client device may include or may execute a variety of possible applications such as a client software application enabling communication with other devices such as communicating one or more messages such as via email short message service SMS or multimedia message service MMS including via a network such as a social network including for example Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Flickr or Google to provide only a few possible examples. A client device may also include or execute an application to communicate content such as for example textual content multimedia content or the like. A client device may also include or execute an application to perform a variety of possible tasks such as browsing searching playing various forms of content including locally stored or streamed video or games. The foregoing is provided to illustrate that claimed subject matter is intended to include a wide range of possible features or capabilities.

Client devices and and third party devices and are operative to communicate with email server via network . Network may be any suitable type of network allowing transport of data communications across thereof. A network may couple devices so that communications may be exchanged such as between a server and a client device or other types of devices including between wireless devices coupled via a wireless network for example. A network may also include mass storage such as network attached storage NAS a storage area network SAN or other forms of computer or machine readable media for example. A network may include the Internet one or more local area networks LANs one or more wide area networks WANs wire line type connections wireless type connections or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the network may be the Internet following known Internet protocols for data communication or any other communication network e.g. any LAN or WAN connection.

Client devices and may transmit requests to email server via the HTTP WAP or similar protocol for the client server exchange of text images and other data. The client devices and are operative to transmit various requests to access user inboxes and through email interface . User inboxes and are not necessarily limited to user inboxes and may represent an instance of a user s email session a virtualized cloud environment or an email client within email interface . Email interface may be a web based email service hosted on email server such as YAHOO MAIL and accessible by client devices and . In another embodiment client devices and may use a desktop email client such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK for accessing email service at an email server via email interface .

Users of client devices and may be provided with email services and features offered by email server through email interface including services such as receiving and composing messages message storage contact list management calendaring and any other typical email service feature. Email server receives requests from the client devices via email interface . In one embodiment email interface may comprise various hardware components running Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol POP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP mail server software or any other suitable email server software. Email server may also provide portal services in addition to or complimentary to the email services such as a search engine feature news stock quotes weather etc.

Although illustrates email server as a single entity email server may be comprised of one or more servers. Servers may vary widely in configuration or capabilities but generally a server may include one or more central processing units and memory. A server may also include one or more mass storage devices one or more power supplies one or more wired or wireless network interfaces one or more input output interfaces or one or more operating systems such as Windows Server Mac OS X Unix Linux FreeBSD or the like.

In the illustrated embodiment email interface provides an interface environment to the services provided by email server . According to the illustrated embodiment email interface comprises an email client interface allowing client device and to send receive store and review email messages. Email interface communicates with context analyzer . In the illustrated embodiment email interface transmits email content from the users contexts of user inboxes and to context analyzer . Email content may include messages associated with the users electronic mailboxes providing users context. A context may include a snapshot or real time activity of a user interacting with or using email service within a respective user inbox or

Upon receiving a given email content from the context of a given user the context analyzer may analyze the email content and provide an interpretation of the content that represents the given user s context with respect to the content. For example context analyzer may receive a confirmation email from the user s inbox including text flight New York City to San Francisco. Context analyzer is operative to translate the text into a structured format such as . As illustrated the context analyzer converts the plain text into a tokenized version based on properties of the received message. In the previous example the context analyzer extracts the terms flight and to as tokens and New York City and San Francisco as cities. In alternative embodiments the context analyzer may utilize a plurality of external metrics in generating an interpretation. For example context analyzer may utilize a user profile including long and short term activity matching concepts and entities or objects and the original user text.

Context analyzer parses the content of the user s context and transmits the interpreted context to application triggering mechanism . In the illustrated embodiment the application triggering mechanism may index applications store metadata for retrieving and select targeted applications based on user email context. Based at least in part on the identified content and context the application triggering mechanism may select one or more applications for display with the given user s email context. Third party devices and may submit the applications for providing follow up transactions from users when predetermined conditions specified by the third party associated with the applications are satisfied by the context of email users of email server . In the illustrated embodiment application triggering mechanism stores metadata for aiding in the fast retrieval and ranking of the applications. In addition to providing fast retrieval application triggering mechanism may additionally manage additions of applications to the application database . Application triggering mechanism may receive new applications and data from developers and index the applications stored in the application database .

The one or more applications may include contextual transaction applications comprising script or flash based software instructions or code that can be embedded within a web page client or interface and executable by a user of the email service to perform actions related to the user s email context with third party companies directly from user inboxes . The actions may include transactions purchases reservations registrations trades transfer of funds information retrieval etc. Applications may additionally include data mining operations for collecting information from users contexts. According to an alternative embodiment the contextual transaction applications may interface with and allow users to perform actions with other services also offered by the provider of the email service e.g. non third party applications . For example a user of YAHOO MAIL may receive an email confirmation of a plane ticket purchase from New York to San Francisco and based on an analysis of the email confirmation a YAHOO TRAVEL application may be provided to the user to find prices and to book hotels or rental cars in San Francisco and a YAHOO SHOPPING application may be provided to the user to shop for luggage bags and other travel related goods in New York.

The applications received by email server and stored in application database may be developed by third party companies using an Application Programming interface API . The API may be provided by the email service provider for developing applications for use with and compatible with email interface . The API may include a source code based specification to be used as an interface by application components developed by third party companies to communicate with email interface . The API may also include specifications for routines data structures object classes and variables for use by developers to create applications for email interface . Applications developed using the API may be embedded in email reading authoring panes e.g. in inboxes .

The API may also provide a bidding language that can be used by the third party companies in their applications to specify when their applications should be triggered for display in user inboxes . Bidding language specified by the API may include using email orientated language to express meaningful email contexts. The contextual transaction applications may be associated with bids describing triggering conditions of when in the context of which emails these contextual transaction applications should be triggered and shown to the user. Applications received by email server from third party devices may be stored on application database and indexed in application triggering mechanism . According to one embodiment applications submitted by third party devices may be prescreened for issues regarding viruses content privacy policy etc. An index in application triggering mechanism may be maintained for the applications including fields such as application identification bid prices trigger conditions third party identifier actions and any other fields that may be used for bidding and executing the application.

Application triggering mechanism is operable to identify third party contextual transaction applications stored in application database with triggering conditions satisfied by the user s context. The identified applications may be included in bidding application pool for bidding on the triggering user context. Bidding application pool includes marketplace operator to provide or facilitate a virtual marketplace or a set of virtual marketplaces for the bidding of email contexts by bidding applications . Given a user s email context bidding may be conducted with marketplace operator between the bidding applications to offer a follow up action to the user with the given email context. The marketplace operator may for example control operate or manage the auction based system. Additional details regarding aspects of auction based systems and the marketplace operator can be found in commonly owned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0021461 filed on Jul. 22 2003 entitled TERM BASED CONCEPT MARKET and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0187818 filed on Feb. 20 2004 entitled COMPUTERIZED ADVERTISING OFFER EXCHANGE all of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Marketplace operator may receive bids from bidding applications based on bid price fields associated with each of the bidding applications indexed by application triggering mechanism which may include for example a minimum and maximum bid price. According to another embodiment applications may bid and jockey for a user s email context by means of an advertisement campaign management module. An advertisement campaign management module includes one or more tools for facilitating planning management optimization delivery communication and implementation of the applications submitted by third party devices . Additional details regarding aspects of campaign management can be found in commonly owned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0027754 filed on Dec. 30 2005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ADVERTISEMENT MANAGEMENT which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Application ranker may determine the rank of the bidding applications based on the bids placed by the bidding applications on the user s context. Based on the outcome of the bidding application ranker may rank the bidding applications accordingly and forward the rankings to application triggering mechanism . Application triggering mechanism may utilize the rankings of the applications from application ranker to determine the display of the applications. Using the rankings application triggering mechanism may indicate to application loader to load specific applications from application database . In another embodiment the application triggering mechanism may mediate between email contexts and multiple competing applications by considering bids as well as a response prediction or click through rate of the bidding applications in the context of the particular email being read written by the particular user which may be determined by application response predictor . As such an overall ranking of the bidding applications may be determined based on the bids and response prediction. Applications with the highest overall rankings or applications exceeding an overall ranking threshold may be selected for display in conjunction with an email context of a given user.

Predicting responsiveness by application response predictor towards bidding applications may include modeling ad clicks and ad conversions in an advertising system such as one provided by YAHOO Inc. According to an alternative embodiment application response predictor may model applications clicks in the email interface. Application response predictor may record user clicks on particular advertisements or applications that have been shown on content pages or email contexts and determine a probability with which a click will happen with respect to pages ads applications and users. The probability may be estimated by applying machine learning and statistical techniques to a collection of historical click data. Using statistics from this data the likelihood of certain applications to be clicked on certain pages may be learned. Furthermore the extent to which certain kinds of term matches between the page and ad or context and application will contribute to the click probability may be computed. The application triggering mechanism may use the click probability as a factor when ranking the applications for a given user s email context.

Application triggering mechanism may invoke one or more of the selected bidding applications for display and charge the companies whose applications were selected a sum less than or equal to the respective bids of the triggered applications. The charges may be received by marketplace operator or by a billing and payments module of the email provider not illustrated from application triggering mechanism . Upon determining which applications to trigger application triggering mechanism may identify the one or more applications to application loader . Applications may be retrieved from application database by application loader and loaded into a corresponding user inbox associated with the bided user context. Based on email context analysis application bids and response predictions a subset of the applications may be selected and displayed in conjunction with a user s email messages e.g. adjacent to a reading authoring pane .

Application loader may instantiate and load applications with context parameters from context analyzer . In addition to parsing content of the context context analyzer is operative to extract relevant parameters from an interpreted email context. For example in the above example the context analyzer may extract the terms New York City and San Francisco as relevant parameters. In an alternative embodiment the context analyzer may additionally convert abbreviations such as nyc and sfo to New York City and San Francisco or perform other transformative operations. The parameters extracted by context analyzer may be used to pre fill application fields. Application fields may include variable input or output associated with a contextual application provided to a given user based on the email context of the user.

One or more fields of the triggered applications can be pre filled based on the user s current email context. In the previous example the context analyzer may insert the cities New York City and San Francisco into an application providing airline arrival and departure times. In one embodiment the context analyzer compares the interpreted context to a plurality of templates. For example the context analyzer may match the above interpreted context with two templates actions and . In another example a flight itinerary email contains the location and dates that are needed to book a hotel stay in the destination city this information can be used to pre populate a hotel reservation application. The email applications described in the present application allows for users to perform non messaging actions e.g. reserving a restaurant or booking a hotel within the email interface using information from the user s email context.

In the illustrated embodiment the method includes the system retrieving content from a user s context step . The system may retrieve and extract content from plaintext string such as flight nyc to sfo from email content or from the user s current email context. In another embodiment the email service providing the electronic message environment may periodically or conditionally mine email messages from users inboxes outboxes etc. After retrieving the content the system parses and interprets the user s context from the retrieved content step . Parsing the content may include data mining operations performed on the content. The data mining process may discover user patterns and extract knowledge about users from the content. Content may be data mined in real time of the email context to identify finer grain target audience segments

In one embodiment target audience segments may be created to classify potential customers by one or more characteristics in order to identify groups of customers which have similar needs and demand similar products and or services. The target audience segments may be separated by geographic segmentations demographic socio economic segmentation psychographic segmentation similar attitudes values and lifestyles behavioral segmentation product related segmentation etc. The parsed email messages may be classified into these target audience segments. The target audience segments may be used to identify segment opportunities in email content. For example rental services such as one provided by AVIS may be identified for a segment of travelers flying into major U.S. airports.

In the illustrated embodiment the system may interpret and convert the plaintext string into a tokenized form. For example the system may convert the plaintext string flight nyc to sfo to the tokenized interpretation . As can be seen the system translates nyc to the token and sfo to the token . In one embodiment the system performs various text processing operations to reformat the email content in the event that various terms are misspelled misplaced etc. The system may recognize words and phrases and associate them with genres verbs products names locations etc.

Bidding is accepted from applications step . The applications may be selected from a pool or store of applications stored in an application database. According to an alternative embodiment sponsored applications may be uploaded into existing advertising marketplaces or exchanges such as RIGHTMEDIA or DOUBLECLICK for serving the applications based the email oriented target audience segments described above. A selected application may be assessed to determine whether a trigger condition of the selected application is satisfied by the user s context. The interpretation of the user s context is compared with one or more trigger conditions of the selected application.

According to one embodiment applications may include one or more trigger conditions in which the developer of the application wishes to execute display the application in a message based on the user s context. The developer may desire to display the application for contexts related to a product or service offered by the application. According to one embodiment accepting bidding from the applications may include entering the application into a bidding marketplace to bid on the user s context. The bids received may be based on predefined bids associated with the application e.g. price fields or in another embodiment applications or their developers may place bids using an automated bidding mechanism such as one provided by an advertisement campaign management system.

Ranks are assigned to the applications based on the bids step . The applications with the highest bids for example may be ranked preferentially. According to another embodiment the applications may also be ranked to optimize revenue for the electronic message provider by strategic application placement in conjunction with users contexts. In a next step the applications are loaded into the user s context based on the assigned ranks. According to one embodiment one or more applications with the highest rankings may be selected for loading. The system may load the applications with the electronic message content in varying forms such as loading the one or more applications alongside the electronic message interface. Applications selected for loading may be loaded according to the context for which they were bid on or alternatively in a future user context. In some embodiments the loaded applications are associated with the user s real time context. According to yet another embodiment the electronic message interface may make an advertisement call to the marketplace identify a target audience segment advertising opportunity associated with the user s context and receive an application associated with the identified target audience.

One or more follow up transactions are provided based on the user s interpreted context step . The follow up transactions are provided via the one or more applications. For example the system may map a Reserve rental car action to an AVIS application that allows the user to reserve a rental car. In another example the system may also map the Check flight arrival departure times action to an airline schedule application such as one provided by FLIGHTSTATS or a similar third party application developer. In the illustrated embodiment the system may identify a plurality of action templates that match the tokenized interpretation. For example the system may identify that the tokens flight and to indicate that a user is traveling between two locations. Based on this interpretation the system may identify a plurality of action templates such as a Reserve rental car action and a Find hotels action. In one embodiment each identified action is associated with a given weight. For example a Find hotels action may be given a higher weight than a Reserve rental car action. Determining the weight of actions may be based on historical user metrics e.g. users book hotel rooms more often than reserve rental cars revenue metrics e.g. the amount of revenue generated per application or a combination thereof.

As the embodiment of illustrates the method performed by the system includes retrieving a user s electronic message context step . In the illustrated embodiment the system may retrieve the electronic message context via an electronic message interface. For example the system may extract from the user s electronic message context plaintext string such as flight nyc to sfo. After receiving the user s electronic message context the system parses and interprets the user s electronic message context step . In one embodiment parsing and interpreting the user s electronic message context includes determining whether a user profile or similar structure are associated with the user of the electronic message context. Additionally determining a user profile exists may entail determining if there are additional historical electronic message contexts associated with a given user. In another embodiment contextual data may be stored by an electronic message provider. In yet another embodiment contextual data may be stored on the client device in the form of a cookie cache or similar mechanism.

Bidding on the electronic message context by one or more applications is facilitated step . The applications may include triggering conditions or scenarios when bids should be placed for a given user electronic message context. For example upon parsing and interpreting a user s electronic message context of a confirmation including a purchase of an air plane ticket applications for car rentals may determine a match of their trigger condition s with the interpreted context and submit bids for the context. The bids may be entered into an auction where the applications jockey for selection or position.

The system may predict the user s response to the applications step . The response prediction may be based on a determination of a transactional appropriateness for the parsed context of the user. For example by utilizing a user profile analyzing messages contained in the user s message folders or extrapolating a user s trends e.g. email activities the system may add various aspects of the user s personality to the user s electronic message context such as that the user is geographically located in New York often visits the CONTINENTAL AIRLINES website prefers AVIS to HERTZ and views restaurant webpages frequently. These examples of user behavior may be based on a user profile historical user data or a combination thereof. Additionally the system may utilize past search and electronic message activities to tailor applications. For example the system may identify a user has recently received electronic messages related to traveling to San Francisco or site seeing in San Francisco and may thus select follow up actions relating to tourism activities.

Predicting the user s response to the applications may also include using metrics such as an application s popularity based on the number of users that utilize the application after receiving a particular genre of electronic message. For example users receiving emails related to flights from a departure city and an arrival city may utilize an AVIS application more frequently than the FLIGHTSTATS application. Various user metric collection devices embedded within the application or application s container page may collect this data. Based on this data the system may determine that the AVIS application has a high user response rate than the FLIGHTSTATS application.

Ranks are assigned to the applications based on their bids and the predicted user response step . In one embodiment the system may mediate between multiple competing applications by considering bids as well as an estimation of the response to the bidding applications in the context of the particular electronic message being read written by the particular user or a response prediction . The system may return applications having higher relevancy to an individual user based on their context preferences and historical electronic messages in addition to the user s current context. In one embodiment the system may organize relevant applications into a hierarchy of applications. Continuing the above examples the system may select a plurality of applications relating to reserving rental cars e.g. an AVIS HERTZ and ZIPCAR application .

The system may further indicate that these applications are of the highest priority and the system should place these applications within the highest priority level. However utilizing the contextual information that a user uses AVIS more often than HERTZ the system may rank the applications such that AVIS is the highest priority application within this priority level. The system may determine as many priority levels as necessary. For example the system may further create a second priority level related to tourism activities such as a YAHOO WEATHER application and a YELP restaurant application.

Ranking of applications may utilize various metrics such as the application s popularity based on the number of users that utilize the application when a user s context includes a particular type of content. This data may be collected by various user metric collection devices embedded within the application or application container page. The system may use other rankings such as ranking by the amount of advertising revenue the applications have earned. Alternatively or in conjunction with the foregoing the system may rank applications based on predetermined application quality authoritativeness or various other metadata parameters associated with the applications. In another embodiment the system may utilize past user electronic message activities to identify a given goal. For example the system may identify that a user has sent and received dinner suggestions as well as movie theatres in a given location. Based on this electronic message pattern the system may bundle related applications for the electronic message history such as bundling a dining application and a theatre application.

The system may chain applications wherein subsequent applications are chained based on user interaction with a first application. For example the system may determine that a user first interacts with a restaurant application and may subsequently chain additional applications such as a movie application based on the first application interactions. In this exemplary embodiment the system chains applications based on a perceived goal e.g. a night out goal combining a restaurant application and a movie application. In one embodiment chained applications may be provided asynchronously to a user. For example an electronic message interface may display a single application e.g. a restaurant application and if the user interacts with the application the system may update the electronic message interface to include a second chained application e.g. a movie application . Conversely if the user does not interact with the restaurant application the electronic message interface remains unchanged.

The system may then embed the applications into the user s electronic message context based on the assigned ranks step . In one embodiment one or more of the highest ranked applications may be selected and triggered. Selected and triggered applications may be loaded into the user s electronic message interface and displayed along with electronic messages. Displaying the applications with electronic message content may be accomplished in varying forms. In one embodiment the application is displayed alongside the electronic message interface as illustrated in .

The fields of the embedded applications are populated based on the user s electronic message context step . The system may pre fill the applications with data tokenized from the user s electronic message. For example the system may pre fill the AVIS application with the arrival city indicated in the user s electronic message context e.g. San Francisco . In another embodiment the applications may be pre filled with data associated with a recommendation related to the user s electronic message context such as names of restaurants museums and attractions in a city identified as a context of the user s electronic message.

As the embodiment of illustrates an email message is displayed in email interface including a travel confirmation from New York to San Francisco. In addition to the email message the email interface contains application and application selected for the user s email context. In particular the email interface displays a VENERE.com application and an AVIS application returned in response to the user s email message of a travel confirmation of a round trip flight from New York to San Francisco. Application provides an interface to search for hotels with fields pre filled with data based on email message . Application provides an application to make a rental car reservation for date and time based on email message .

The application fills in Destination field from field and to field . Similarly the application fills in date and time pick up field date and time return field and location pick up field . These fields are filled in based on the content from email message . Fields and may be filled based on Arrival field and Departure field . Fields and may be determined or filled with data based on flight date and flight date . Fields and may be filled with date and time data using fields and .

The user may conduct an action associated with the recommended content items and using actions and respectively. Application is presented to the user based primarily on the context of email . As such the service provider determines that an email relating to a purchase related to The Lord of the Rings genre may be associated with the NETFLIX application offering media content for The Lord of the Rings movies. Application may also be presented to a user based on a user profile or similar mechanism.

In software implementations computer software e.g. programs or other instructions and or data is stored on a machine readable medium as part of a computer program product and is loaded into a computer system or other device or machine via a removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface. Computer programs also called computer control logic or computer readable program code are stored in a main and or secondary memory and executed by one or more processors controllers or the like to cause the one or more processors to perform the functions of the invention s as described herein. In this document the terms machine readable medium computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a removable storage unit e.g. a magnetic or optical disc flash memory device or the like a hard disk or the like.

Notably the figures and examples above are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention s to a single embodiment as other embodiments are possible by way of interchange of some or all of the described or illustrated elements. Moreover where certain elements of the present invention s can be partially or fully implemented using known components only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention s are described and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components are omitted so as not to obscure the invention s . In the present specification an embodiment showing a singular component should not necessarily be limited to other embodiments including a plurality of the same component and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. Moreover applicants do not intend for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such. Further the present invention s encompasses present and future known equivalents to the known components referred to herein by way of illustration.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention s that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the relevant art s including the contents of the documents cited and incorporated by reference herein readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention s . Such adaptations and modifications are therefore intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance presented herein in combination with the knowledge of one skilled in the relevant art s .

While various embodiments of the present invention s have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It would be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail could be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention s . Thus the present invention s should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

