---

title: Printing system, image forming apparatus, and method
abstract: An information processing apparatus, which is configured to communicate with a server apparatus and an image forming apparatus, comprises a receiving unit configured to receive AR information that includes AR guidance for a first operation of an image forming apparatus, wherein the AR information superimposes the AR guidance on an image that was captured by the information processing apparatus; a display control unit configured to command the information processing apparatus to display the AR guidance to guide a user to operate the image forming apparatus, and an obtaining unit configured to obtain information that originated from performance of the first operation by the image forming apparatus, wherein the receiving unit is further configured to receive AR information that includes additional AR guidance that presents operations for recovering from the error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235819&OS=09235819&RS=09235819
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 09235819
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121016
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 555 578 filed on Nov. 4 2011 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 555 594 filed on Nov. 4 2011 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Image forming apparatuses e.g. printers sometimes have some errors and malfunctions. Repairing an image forming apparatus may be very complex and some image forming apparatuses are so large that they are not easily carried to a repair facility.

One of the aspects of the present disclosure relates to managing image forming apparatus. Also one of the aspects of the present disclosure is directed to managing an image forming apparatus using augmented reality.

In some embodiments an information processing apparatus which is configured to communicate with a client apparatus and an image forming apparatus comprises a receiving unit configured to receive status information from an image forming apparatus a sending unit configured to send AR information that includes AR guidance regarding a first operation of the image forming apparatus to a client apparatus wherein the AR information superimposes the AR guidance on an image captured by the client apparatus an obtaining unit configured to obtain information which originated from the image forming apparatus and which includes an indication of an error that occurred in the image forming apparatus wherein the information originates from performance of the first operation by the image forming apparatus a determining unit configured to determine an error based on the information obtained by the obtaining unit and a transfer unit configured to transfer AR information that includes additional AR guidance based on the determined error.

In some embodiments an information processing apparatus which is configured to communicate with a server apparatus and an image forming apparatus comprises a receiving unit configured to receive AR information that includes AR guidance for a first operation of an image forming apparatus wherein the AR information superimposes the AR guidance on an image of the image forming apparatus that was captured by the information processing apparatus a display control unit configured to command the information processing apparatus to display the AR guidance and an obtaining unit configured to obtain information that originated from performance of the first operation by the image forming apparatus and to use the obtained information to determine an error that occurred the image forming apparatus wherein the receiving unit is further configured to receive AR information that includes additional AR guidance that presents operations for recovering from the error.

In some embodiments a method performed by information processing apparatus that communicates with a client apparatus and an image forming apparatus comprises receiving status information sending first AR information that commands a client apparatus to display AR guidance for a first operation of an image forming apparatus wherein the AR guidance superimposes the AR guidance on an image captured by the client apparatus obtaining information that originated from performance of the first operation by the image forming apparatus and that includes a sign regarding an error that occurred in the image forming apparatus and transferring second AR information to command the client apparatus to display other AR guidance to recover from the determined error.

In some embodiments a method performed by an information processing apparatus configured to communicate with a server apparatus and an image forming apparatus comprises receiving AR information that includes a command to display AR guidance for a first operation of an image forming apparatus that superimposes the AR guidance on an image that was captured by the information processing apparatus displaying the AR guidance and obtaining information that originated from performance of the first operation by the image forming apparatus determining an error that occurred the image forming apparatus based on the obtained information and receiving further AR information that includes a command to display other AR guidance to recover from the error.

The following disclosure describes certain explanatory embodiments. Additionally the explanatory embodiments may include several novel features and a particular feature may not be essential to practice the systems and methods described herein. Various example embodiments features and aspects will be described in detail below with reference to the drawings.

The AR service provides videos and modeling data in a database of AR information for easy guidance of device operation. The device analyzing service recognizes device error s of the MFP and determines the reason s for the error for example based on one or more the algorithms. The device management service identifies the device and provides an error history for analyzing the reasons for the error s . The MFP may send its serial number s current device configuration information to the device management service for example via HTTPS REST See . The MFP also sends the its status and logs for example errors and jams to the device management service .

A mobile application being executed by the mobile device may send the serial number s of the MFP to the device management service . The serial number s of the MFP can be input via a user interface see e.g. via an Optical Character Recognition OCR application or via a QR code recognition application. The OCR application may read the serial number s of the MFP after capturing the device information from a the sticker or a front panel. The QR code recognition application may recognize the serial number after capturing the QR code. The serial number of the MFP is sent to the device management service .

The mobile application may register the knowledge base KB with the device analyzing service which provides the solution to resolve an error. Also the device analyzing service may register the KB after learning how to fix issues. The location serial numbers counters and error logs may be obtained by the device management service and the device management service may store the information in the data base . The device analyzing service may access the data base via the device management service . The device analyzing service may refer to one or more of the KB and the data base which stores location serial numbers counters error logs via the device management service to determine a solution to the error and determine the AR indexes to the corresponding AR information. The recommendation service provides candidate solutions if a specific solution cannot be found. The device analyzing service and or the recommendation service may send the candidate solutions and or AR indexes to the AR service .

Since an error code like Exxx corresponds to an actual error the device analyzing service could select the AR index that corresponds to the specific error. Based on the AR index selected by the device analyzing service the AR service obtains AR information for example an AR video and or AR modeling data e.g. 3 dimensional data that describes shapes coordinates etc. for AR illustrations from the database of AR information . Also AR information provided by the AR service may combine AR guidance with live video images captured by a camera of the mobile device . The AR service sends the obtained AR information to the mobile device via the network. Regarding the error history the device management service predicts which part of the device should be fixed and may find appropriate AR information to send to and display on the mobile device . When an error history indicates jams happen a lot that may be the specific solution to an error. A detailed explanation of error history is provided below. The recommendations may indicate a few possible solutions and each solution may link to an AR information. Also the system may provide a couple of AR information depending on the process used to fix the error s .

Sometimes a user may need to interrupt a video that includes AR information also referred to as an AR video . For example the user may stop the AR video when the user is operating something and cannot see the AR video. The AR video provides an interface to interact with users for example by pushing a button or a go to next button to provide step by step guidance. Instant messaging IM may be provided and IM can interact with an application on the mobile device . By using IM and the messaging service the user service technician may chat with a boss specialist in a service center. Scalable machine learning technology such as Mahout an open source machine learning system is used in the big data analyzing service . The big data analyzing service uses the communication results of the messaging service and maintenance social network platform between the users service technicians. The device management chat in shows one example of communication between users service technicians using the maintenance social network platform and the messaging service .

If a part needs to be ordered a user or service technician can order the part by using the user mobile application see e.g. or a service technician mobile application see e.g. which communicate with an ordering service and or a delivery service .

The mobile device is configured to communicate with a host computer and an MFP see e.g. . The transmission receipt unit is configured to receive AR information that controls the mobile device to display AR guidance regarding an operation of the MFP by superimposing the AR guidance on an image of the MFP that was captured by the mobile device and the AR guidance corresponds to the received AR information. The display control unit controls the mobile device to display the AR guidance to guide a user to operate the MFP . The transmission receipt unit obtains information originating from the MFP according to an operation that the user performs according to the AR guidance that is displayed by the display control unit. The transmission receipt unit uses the information to determine that an error occurred in the MFP . The transmission receipt unit receives AR information and the processor controls the mobile device to display additional AR guidance to recover from the error.

In the host computer the CPU controls various devices connected to a system bus according to one or more programs stored in a RAM . The RAM also functions as a main memory or a work area of the CPU . A ROM stores various programs and data for example the modules shown in to and the ROM includes various storage areas for storing respective programs or data. For example the ROM may include a font ROM for storing various font data a program ROM for storing a boot program or BIOS and a data ROM for storing data.

A keyboard controller KBC controls the receipt of commands or data via a keyboard KB or a pointing device a mouse . A CRT controller CRTC controls the display operations of a CRT display CRT . A disk controller DKC controls accesses to an external memory such as a hard disk. A printer controller PRTC is connected to the MFP via a bidirectional interface and controls communication between the host computer and the MFP . The PRTC and the I O Unit may comply with a predetermined network protocol and other communication protocols including wireless protocols. The external memory may include a hard disk HD a magneto optic MO a floppy disk and or an optical disc e.g. CD Blu ray disc .

Applications which may including a customization tool program hereinafter referred to simply as a customization tool stored in a module are loaded from the external memory into the RAM and executed by the CPU . The CPU also converts rasterizes print data into outline font data and stores the resultant data in the RAM so that the resultant data can be displayed on the CRT in a WYSIWYG What You See Is What You Get manner. If a command is issued for example by clicking a particular point on the CRT with a mouse cursor the CPU opens a corresponding window and performs data processing according to the command.

The host computer communicates with a mobile device and the MFP . Also the PRTC is configured to receive status information. The PRTC is further configured to send AR information that commands the mobile device to display AR guidance regarding an operation of the MFP by superimposing the AR guidance on an image captured by the mobile device . The AR information corresponds to the received status information. The PRTC is configured to obtain information e.g. an image scanned by the MFP see which was generated by the MFP e.g. a printout an image according to a user s operation that was guided by the AR guidance displayed on the mobile device or other client device and which includes a sign regarding an error that occurred in the MFP . Furthermore the CPU in the host computer determines an error based on the information obtained by the PRTC . And the PRTC transfers the AR information that controls the mobile device to display additional AR guidance to recover from the determined error.

Now the structure of the MFP is described. A CPU generally controls the operations of the MFP . The RAM may function not only as the main memory and the work area of the CPU but also as an area in which information is stored in an output form and as an area in which environmental data is stored. The RAM also includes a NVRAM Non Volatile RAM area and is designed to be extensible in memory capacity by connecting an optional RAM to an extension port not shown . The ROM includes a font ROM for storing various font data a program ROM for storing a control program executed by the CPU and a data ROM for storing various kinds of data. An I O unit transmits and receives data to or from the host computer and the I O unit provides an interface to a network which may include the internet. A scanner can read paper to generate image data.

Access to an external memory is controlled by a memory controller MC . The external memory may include for example a HD a MO a floppy disk FD or an IC card. The external memory is used to store font data an emulation program form data etc. If which no external memory such as a hard disk is connected information used by the host computer is stored in the data ROM of the ROM . There is no particular restriction on the number of external memories . For example an optional font card for providing optional font data in addition to the built in font data or an external memory that stores a program for interpreting an additional printer control language may also be connected.

An operation unit has an operation panel via which a user inputs a command or data. The operation panel includes for example switches and LED indicators. The operation panel may further include a NVRAM for storing printer mode setting information received via the operation panel.

In accordance with the control program stored in the program ROM of the ROM the CPU outputs an image signal as output information to the printing unit printer engine via the printing unit interface . The CPU is capable of communicating with the host computer via the I O unit . For example the CPU is capable of receiving print data transmitted from the host computer and transmitting information indicating the status of the MFP to the host computer .

Also and may be implemented on a cloud OS. A cloud OS includes distributed systems. The cloud OS operates on at least one or more CPUs. The cloud OS manages networked storage and the networked storage stores the modules described in and . The one or more CPUs execute the instructions in the modules described in and for example to implement the methods described herein.

In which illustrates an example embodiment of a method for identifying an error in an MFP in block the device maintenance application operating on the MFP recognizes that one or more errors have occurred. In block the device maintenance application determines if the MFP s firmware can generate a QR code e.g. if the firmware still has enough functionality to generate the QR code . If yes block YES the flow moves to block where the device maintenance application or other component of the MFP generates a QR code which may include the error code and other device information. Next in block the MFP displays the QR code on a display panel. However if in block the firmware cannot generate the QR code block NO then the flow proceeds to block where the MFP displays the error code on a display panel.

After the device management service receives the error code QR code the device management service sends the error code QR codes to the device analyzing service which searches for the specific solution based on the error code s . If the error s frequently occur the device analyzing service analyzes the possibilities of repairing replacing some parts. When the solution is part repair or replacement the device analyzing service sends a notification to the mobile device . If some parts are to be purchased using the user mobile application in the flow proceeds to the purchase process. The user mobile application in sends an order for the part to the ordering service . Also if any part must be purchased the user mobile application in gets AR information from the AR service that identifies the part that needs to be replaced. Also the AR information shows the user how to fix the error which includes replacing the part. For example the AR information may show the solutions for resolving issues regarding waste toner full e.g. the waste toner container is full and issues regarding cleaning mirrors.

When the user receives the new repaired part the user s mobile application captures the part s QR code uses NFC near field communication to get the part number or receives the part number from manual input. The user mobile application in recognizes the AR index and gets the AR information from the AR service . Based on the AR information the mobile application shows the AR guidance which shows the user how to fix the error and recognizes the part to be fixed. For example the AR information may show on the display of the mobile device the procedure for replacing the fuser.

When multiple solutions correspond to an error a user may send the message to the service contact via the messaging service via the user mobile application. The messaging service contact receives the message decides which solution is appropriate and responds to the user. When the user receives the solution from the service contact the user also receives the AR information if no replacement part purchase is required. If purchase is required the flow proceeds to the purchase process.

In block the device analyzing service checks whether or not the solution is one repair procedure. If yes then in block the device analyzing service creates the solution information device repair procedures to fix the error for example check the power of the paper deck or check the connection of the serial cable for a user or a service technician based on the AR index which corresponds to the AR information. If there are multiple candidate solutions block NO in block the device analyzing service creates the recommendations possible solutions with the AR indexes after communicating with the recommendation service and the flow proceeds to block . In block the device analyzing service confirms whether a user or service technician mobile application in the mobile device is powered on and connected and logged in.

When the user or service technician mobile application is online block YES in block the application notifies the user service technician of the solution or recommendations the user service technician may be registered in a user database or a service technician database in the data base associated with the device that has the error and then the flow ends. If the mobile application is offline block NO in block the notification is stored in the user s service technician s inbox in the mobile device and the flow ends.

If in block the device analyzing service determines that the current counter is not close to or has not exceeded a maximum number block NO the flow proceeds to block where the device analyzing service compares the scanned print data to sample images. Next in block the device analyzing service determines if there is no cyan in the paper edges of the scanned print data. If no block NO the flow proceeds to block where the device analyzing service refers to the KB . If yes block YES then the flow proceeds to block where the device analyzing service selects the AR index that corresponds to the AR information that guides the user to clean the scanning mirrors and the device analyzing service notifies the AR service after selecting the AR index.

To capture a scanned print data for example the AR information may instruct a user of the mobile device to capture one or more photographs. In some embodiments the AR information guides a user to operate the MFP to print a paper e.g. a test paper and guides the user to scan the paper or take a photograph of the test paper. As shown in which illustrates an example embodiment of a system for servicing an image forming apparatus after a user mobile application in the mobile device receives the AR information the mobile device displays the AR guidance for example as shown in the display of the mobile device . The AR guidance instructs the user service technician to take a picture of the paper output from the MFP as shown in and . The AR guidance which may be superimposed over a live view of an image from a camera of the mobile device prompts the user to fit the edges of a sheet along dashed lines so that the device analyzing service can perform the appropriate image recognition process. After capturing the image the user mobile application may automatically send the captured image s of the printed sheet e.g. the scanned print data to the device management service and then the captured image is passed to the device analyzing service .

The device analyzing service compares the captured image of the printed sheet to sample images. If the device analyzing service determines that the edges of paper are colored by cyan block YES for example as shown in of the device analyzing service determines that cleaning for the mirror is necessary for the MFP . Then the device analyzing service specify the appropriate AR index and sends it to AR service . The AR service obtains the corresponding AR information which includes AR guidance and sends it to the mobile device e.g. in block . The mobile device displays the AR guidance which shows how to locate the cleaner and how to clean the mirror . If the edges of the paper are not colored by cyan block NO the device analyzing service refers to the KB e.g. in block .

If the solution includes the specific way to solve the error block YES then in block the user mobile application asks the user whether or not the user needs to contact the service center. If the input from the user indicates that the contact with the service center is not needed block NO the user mobile application checks whether or not the purchase process is required at block .

If the user mobile application determines the purchase process is needed block YES the flow proceeds to block where the user mobile application accesses a web site to order the parts. If the user mobile application does not determine that the purchase process is needed block NO the flow proceeds to block where the user mobile application retrieves the AR information. Then in block the user mobile application displays the AR guidance to show the user how to recognize the part to be repaired. And in block the user mobile application may wait for the user s input to select whether to show a step by step AR guidance e.g. a video and modeling data that prompts the user before transitioning to a next segment or continuous AR guidance e.g. a video and modeling data that plays without waiting for user input .

If the application obtains the input that indicates the step by step AR guidance block YES then in block the AR guidance is displayed step by step on the display of the mobile device . The user may interact with a UI of the user mobile application to move forward the next step for example by pushing the button after he changes the part on the MFP . If the step by step AR guidance is not selected block NO then in block the streaming AR guidance will be sent from the AR service to the mobile device . Next the flow arrives at block where the user mobile application determines if the AR guidance is to be displayed again. When an input indicating a repeat is received block YES the AR service and or the user mobile application replays the AR guidance.

If a repeat is not to be played then the flow proceeds to block where the user mobile application determines whether the occurred error has been fixed or not. If the MFP still has an error block NO for example has another error even though the error was fixed or the error was not fixed the flow returns to block where the error information is sent to the device analyzing service via the device management service . When the user mobile application determines that the error has been fixed block YES the flow proceeds to block where the user mobile application opens the text dialog and shows the Liked button. The user input in a message typed in the text dialog and or in the push of Liked or the Dislike button is received in block . Next in block the feedback is sent to the maintenance social network platform and then the flow ends.

If in block the user mobile application found there is not a specific solution to the error block NO then in block the user mobile application displays the recommended solutions that were received from the recommendation service . Next in block the user mobile application retrieves the service contact information from the customer information which for example may be in the customers data base in the data base maintained by the device management service . Then in block the user mobile application shows the message dialog. A message typed by the user is sent to the messaging service in block where the user mobile application uploads the message and the solution ID from the messaging service . In block the user mobile application receives the request ID for example via the messaging service . Next in block the user mobile application sends the request ID to the message service . Following in block the user mobile application receives at least one solution from the message service and then the flow proceeds to block .

For example in block to the user mobile application recognizes the part to be fixed by using the captured QR code which includes an error code. The user mobile application sends the recognized error code to the device analyzing service and the device analyzing service identifies the AR index of the corresponding AR information and sends the AR index to the AR service . The AR service sends the AR information that corresponds to the AR index to the user mobile application and the user mobile application displays the AR information which illustrates how the fix the part that was received from the AR service . The AR information may be overlaid superimposed on an image of the part that is to be fixed.

If it is determined that the AR guidance needs to be replayed block YES the user mobile application repeats the display of the AR information block . If replay is not needed block NO then in block the user mobile application opens the text dialog and shows the Liked button and the user mobile application obtains messages typed by the user and obtains the input of the Liked or Disliked button. Finally in block the feedback is sent to the maintenance social network platform and then the flow ends.

The MFP sends the recognized error code to the device analyzing service via the device management service and the device analyzing service identifies the AR index that corresponds to the error code and sends the AR index to the AR service . The AR service sends the AR information that corresponds to the AR index to the user mobile application in the user mobile device .

For example which illustrates an example embodiment of a system for servicing an image forming apparatus shows a screen shot from the AR guidance which guides the user to remove the sheets of paper. The AR guidance which is received from the AR service guides the user to open the drawer step 1 and to remove paper step 2 . which illustrates an example embodiment of a system for servicing an image forming apparatus shows a screen shot of displayed AR information which includes AR guidance superimposed over an image of the MFP after removal of the paper on the display of the user mobile device . As shown in the user mobile application displays a confirmation of the completion of the removal of the jammed paper.

Otherwise the user may need to remove the paper in another paper handling unit of the MFP if any. The flow may be repeated for each of the errors that occurred in the MFP to obtain the applicable AR information to help the user solve each of the errors.

When the user fixes the jam error the user may try to operate the MFP to copy again. But sometimes the MFP has another jam error. If the device analyzing service determines that a predetermined number of errors have happened in a predetermined period of time the device management service and or the device analyzing service may select another AR index to provide a solution to the error.

The device management service recognizes many over a predetermined number of jam errors in the error history which has been obtained by the device management service . When the device analyzing service recognizes many over predetermined number of jam errors the device analyzing service selects an AR index to fix the error. For example the AR service selects the AR index of the applicable AR information that corresponds to the many jam errors.

The AR service obtains the AR information which guides the user to check whether or not thick paper is in a paper tray while the configuration in the MFP is set to use plain paper. If the user recognizes thick paper is in a paper tray while the configuration of the MFP is set to use plain paper a user can input information indicating thick paper is in a paper tray while the configuration in the MFP is set to use plain paper. Then if information indicating thick paper is in a paper tray while the configuration in the MFP is set to use plain paper is input or if the media detection unit detects that thick paper is in a paper tray while the configuration of the MFP is set to use plain paper the AR guidance prompts the user whether the user wants to continue to use the current media type or not. If the user s input indicates the answer is no the AR guidance shows the user how to replace the sheets with the sheets of a different media type in the appropriate tray for example as shown in . If the user s input indicates that the answer is yes the AR guidance shows the user how to change the configuration of the media type of the tray.

In response to the user changing the configuration of the tray the MFP sends the change of configuration to the device management service . The device management service notifies the AR service of the change of the configuration. Then the AR service notifies the user mobile device of the change in the configuration. The user mobile device then shows additional AR information which indicates that the configuration change is successful in response to receiving the updated configuration.

Also for example the user checks the paper tray and thick paper is in the drawer. The user needs to check the device configuration in the front panel of the MFP . The user just pushes a button Yes the thick paper is used on the display of the user mobile device . The device analyzing service receives and analyzes the user interaction information from the mobile device such as the selection of Yes the thick paper is used. The device analyzing service determines the AR index of the AR information that shows how to configure the media type in the front panel. The device analyzing service sends the AR index to the AR service and the AR service sends the AR information to the user mobile device . The user can check the configuration on the front panel based on the instructions in the AR information.

The user mobile device may also capture another photo of the front panel and send it to the device analyzing service . Or the user mobile device may send Yes the media type in the device configuration is plain. The device analyzing service receives and analyzes the information that is received from the user mobile device and determines the AR index of the AR information that shows how to change the media type on the front panel. The user can change the configuration based on the instructions in the AR information. Finally the user can fix the acute issue which is a paper jam.

If the device analyzing service determines that there are print quality issues the AR guidance in may guide the user to take a photo of the paper in the tray and send the captured photo to the device management service . In the AR guidance may show the user how to pick out sheets of paper in the tray of the MFP and guide the user to take an appropriate photo e.g. with the mobile device which will be used to determine the reason for the print quality issues. As indicated in the mobile device may capture photo of the paper or a scanner in the MFP may scan the paper on a platen. Also AR information may guide the user to operate the scanner of the MFP . When the device management service receives the scanned image from the MFP or the photo from the mobile device the device management service sends it to the device analyzing service . The device analyzing service checks whether the captured image is related to predetermined quality issues. If the device analyzing service determines the captured image is related to a predetermined quality issue it obtains the AR index that corresponds to the AR information that provides the user the solution. The AR index is sent to the AR service and the AR service sends the AR information see e.g. to to the user mobile device .

Also for example an MFP displays Error 001 which indicates an error in the puncher unit. In response an AR video or other AR information is selected that shows how to reconnect the serial cable of the puncher unit how to plug it in to the main body of the MFP and or how to turn the puncher unit on or off.

After Error 001 is repaired next the MFP displays Error 002. The Error 002 indicates an error in the developer unit which means that if the developer unit is connected properly it should be replaced or the toner cartridges should be changed. An AR video is selected that shows how to install a new toner bottle in the device or how to plug in the developer unit cable.

After Error 002 is repaired the MFP displays Error 003. This error indicates that an error in the POD paper deck feed motor. The selected AR video shows how to turn the POD deck on off how to connect the connector to the motor from the paper deck s controller board how to replace the feed motor and or how to replace the paper deck s controller board.

Additionally in some embodiments cyber physical monitoring sensors in an MFP identify a failure and automatically notify a cloud based maintenance management system. Maintenance management software can then initiate a remote diagnostic procedure in equipment to determine if a repair visit by a service technician is necessary. A self repair program can also be transmitted to the system or the customer can be emailed a repair procedure with a web link to an instructional video. Repair parts that will likely be needed may be auto ordered for delivery to the service technician whose service call is appropriately auto scheduled to align with an estimated receipt of parts. If parts are sent to a customer a QR code on the packaging can link to AR guidance that can be viewed on a mobile device.

The service technician may be directed to the street address where the MFP is located with a combination of GPS guidance and location information that is visible through an augmented reality browser in a mobile device. Once inside a customer building indoor navigation technologies can guide the service technician to the specific machine needing requesting repair.

An analytic summary of the machine s operating history is served from the cloud based maintenance management system to the service technician s mobile device to aid the repair diagnosis. Analytical information may be categorized for three different levels of authorized access 1 employees equipment s technical operating history 2 dealer consumables history and equipment utilization 3 customer all information in 1 and 2 plus specific user usage data.

A service technician may use augmented reality AR software on a mobile device to visually overlay a step by step repair procedure onto the equipment from the perspective as seen in front of the service technician. AR software may identify each part or wire in a cable bundle along with its routing. AR software may provide an artificial X Ray view of equipment by overlaying an in perspective graphic of a cut away view. Visual markers stickers inside the machine may improve the quality and accuracy of an AR experience that relies on the low end sensors used in some smartphones and tablets by providing a spatial reference for an AR overlay layer. Repair procedure videos and documentation could also be accessed by a service technician via the mobile device.

When an unexpected problem is encountered during a repair the service technician may request real time assistance from fellow servicemen through a dedicated maintenance network. Videos and photographs of the unexpected problem can be included with the real time help assistance request.

Once a repair is completed the service technician can wirelessly test the equipment s print capability from his mobile device and print a service summary report for the customer. A service technician may share the newly devised repair procedure for the unexpected problem by posting the procedure to the maintenance network along with photos and videos. This new procedure and its associated video may be auto tagged for easy discovery by fellow servicemen who are searching for help with the same unexpected problem.

Also AR based repair procedures may be generated for customers to perform their own advanced maintenance or repairs. By tabulating cyber sensor data from all installed equipment analytics can be created to 1 Determine the frequency and duration of each repair type 2 Link unusual failure counts to specific vendor parts and 3 Predict failures based on data from machines that have failed. Augmented Reality glasses can be substituted for handheld mobile devices to provide a hands free experience for a service technician.

In stage cyber physical sensors in an MFP discover a problem and initiate a service call. In stage a cloud based maintenance management and dispatch system determines if a self repair program can resolve the problem. If yes then in stage the diagnostic self repair program is sent to the MFP. In not then in stage the customer e.g. owner operator of the MFP is auto notified of the problem and is sent a repair procedure. Next in stage a list of repair parts is selected and a mailing label is automatically printed. Then in stage mobile augmented reality assists a service technician s locating of the customer s building. In stage indoor navigating technologies guide the service technician to the MFP s location.

Following in stage an analytic summary of the MFP aids the service technician s diagnosis of the problem. In stage augmented reality on the mobile device guides the repair. If the problem is severe in stage help is requested from an internal maintenance network. When the repair is completed in stage the service report is wireless sent to the MFP from the service technician s mobile device and printed. Also if a new repair procedure is used then in stage the new repair procedure is automatically tagged and shared with the maintenance network.

The DMS manages the interaction with and the information about various image forming devices e.g. MFP and the DMS and collects device information from various image forming devices e.g. MFP based on different protocols e.g. device protocols remote network protocols such as SNMP. The DMS also collects status information from the image forming devices e.g. MFP . For example the DMS may get the status which may be the most dynamic attribute of the device whenever the status changes and may send that information along with other device information to the ARS . In addition the DMS may use these protocols to control the devices. Also the DMS may either reside on the MFP or on a server e.g. the DMS can run locally on the MFP or remotely from the MFP .

The ARS communicates with the DMS to obtain information about the device or the status of the MFP and the ARS manages and communicates with the AR devices such as AR glasses e.g. AR goggles or a tablet. The communication channel between the ARS and the DMS may use various protocols such as TCP HTTP etc. The ARS can also operate on the MFP or remotely to the MFP . The ARS gets the device status and information generates an AR image or video and sends the AR image or video to the AR device AR glasses tablet . The images or the video feed to the AR device may be streamed in real time based on the changes happening on the device. The ARS may generate an image video based on one or more selected AR Algorithms e.g. algorithm 1 to algorithm n and on the AR device that will display the images video. The ARS receives input from an interaction module that obtains information on the MFP status.

In the MFP in the network needs monitoring updates and troubleshooting in a more efficient and seamless manner. The DMS with the AR system allows the user whether a highly trained technician or a novice to efficiently troubleshoot problems or install new options for the MFP .

Following are two example situations that prompt a user to use the AR device at the MFP . One situation occurs when the MFP malfunctions and another situation occurs when the MFP needs an update or an upgrade of its current equipment.

Once the status is obtained by the DMS in stage the flow proceeds to stage . In stage the DMS sends that information to a pre configured ARS along with the MFP device information which indicate where the problem occurred. The DMS can also store the static information about the device into the database for quick retrieval.

The communication between the DMS and ARS depends on where these services reside. If both resides on the same device e.g. a server than an inter process communication may be used to communicate. But if the DMS and the ARS reside on different devices e.g. the MFP and a server then a remote communication protocol such as HTTP or a direct TCP call may be used to exchange the information between the modules.

After the ARS receives the status and the information about the MFP in stage in optional stage based on the system configuration the ARS may try to notify an AR device or a user about the MFP status. If there is no configuration setting for the notification the ARS may store the information as pending in the database.

In stage the user or the service technician brings the AR device close to the MFP which has the problem and in stage the AR device connects to the MFP using NFC Near Field Communication Bluetooth a USB based connection or any other supported near communication protocol. Once the AR device is connected the MFP in stage the AR device gets the device information from the MFP and in stage the AR device sends the information to the ARS .

Next in stage the ARS constructs an AR image or video based on the device information the error and or the selected AR algorithm s . Then in stage the ARS sends the AR image video to the AR device and in stage the AR device displays the AR image video. The information that the ARS can use to construct the AR image includes the location of the MFP the distance between the AR device and the MFP etc.

Next in stage the user service technician implements the instructions in the AR image video and then in stage the MFP detects that the problem has been resolved or part of the problem has been resolved and ii updates the DMS with the status. In stage the ARS receives the update from DMS in stage the ARS creates a new AR image video and in stage the ARS sends the new AR image video to the AR device. These stages may continue repeat until the problem is fixed and the MFP returns to a normal state.

If the MFP reports an error that requires multiple steps to fix it and if the MFP remains in that error state until the steps are completed then the communication continues between the AR device and the ARS . The ARS in turn obtains information from the DMS after each step is completed and generates the AR images video for the next steps.

This system may also provide AR guidance for replacing existing parts or for adding additional parts capabilities to a MFP . In this scenario the user has to start the process of replacing or adding the option to the MFP . The user can start this by adding an application to the MFP which allows the user to select the option that is to be installed or may start this through the AR device . Once the option is selected by the user the information is communicated to the DMS and then it the flow may be the same as or similar too stages .

As described above the AR images videos can be dynamically constructed based on the error code and not based just on the physical appearance of the MFP . Additional device models can be dynamically added to the system without updates to the MFP or the AR device for example by updating the DMS and or the ARS . Further different AR algorithms can be used at the ARS based on the error criteria. Notifications can also be sent from the ARS to the AR device about a device problem. Even if multiple steps a required to resolve an error a single user or service technician may perform the steps. Also the system can provide guidance to install or update an option on the MFP .

The above described devices systems and methods can be implemented by supplying one or more computer readable media having stored thereon computer executable instructions for realizing the above described operations to one or more computing devices that are configured to read the computer executable instructions and execute them. In this case the systems and or devices perform the operations of the above described embodiments when executing the computer executable instructions. Also an operating system on the one or more systems and or devices may implement the operations of the above described embodiments. Thus the computer executable instructions and or the one or more computer readable media storing the computer executable instructions thereon constitute an embodiment.

Any applicable computer readable medium e.g. a magnetic disk including a floppy disk a hard disk an optical disc including a CD a DVD a Blu ray disc a magneto optical disk a magnetic tape and a solid state memory including flash memory DRAM SRAM a solid state drive can be employed as a computer readable medium for the computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be written to a computer readable medium provided on a function extension board inserted into the device or on a function extension unit connected to the device and a CPU provided on the function extension board or unit may implement the operations of the above described embodiments.

The scope of the claims is not limited to the above described embodiments and includes various modifications and equivalent arrangements.

