---

title: Method and apparatus for dynamic media access control in a multiple access system
abstract: An electronic device may be operable to control access to a physical medium (e.g., airwaves, a copper cable, or an optical fiber) utilizing carrier sense multiple access (CSMA). The amount of time that the electronic device must sense the physical medium as being inactive before it permits transmission of a message onto the physical medium may be determined based on: the size of the message, the type of the message, the symbol rate at which the message is to be transmitted, and/or a channel onto which the message is to be transmitted. Similarly, other aspects of how and when electronic device transmits and/or receives on the physical medium may be controlled via one or more dynamically configurable parameters which may be configured based on characteristics of received and/or to-be-transmitted messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191340&OS=09191340&RS=09191340
owner: BLACKBIRD TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS, INC.
number: 09191340
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 464 376 entitled Advanced Communication System for Wide area Low Power Wireless Applications and Active RFID and filed on Mar. 2 2011.

Each of the above referenced applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to networking. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and apparatus for dynamic media access control in a multiple access system.

Existing methods of media access control for a shared communication medium are often inefficient. Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for dynamic media access control in a multiple access system substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms block and module refer to functions than can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination of one or more thereof. As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example introduce a list of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations.

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to control operation of the first device . The CPU may for example execute an operating system and or other programs such e.g. programs that enable a user interface of the device . The CPU may generate one or more control signals for controlling the operation of the device . The CPU may for example control a mode of operation of the device .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to control operation of the second device . In some instances the CPU may be substantially similar to the CPU . In instances that the device is less resource constrained device such as a base station or network controller and the device is more resource constrained device such as a battery powered tag or a smartcard as described in above incorporated U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 13 270 802 the CPU may be less complex e.g. comprise fewer gates utilize less power utilize less memory etc. than the CPU . In one embodiment for example the CPU may comprise a RISC or ARM processor and the CPU may comprise a state machine having a relatively small number of states e.g. four states .

The radio may comprise a processor and an analog front end AFE . The processor may comprise circuitry operable to interface with the AFE to receive and transmit data and to process received and to be transmitted data. For transmission the processor may be operable to receive data from the CPU and or memory encode packetize and or otherwise process the data to prepare it for transmission in accordance with one or more wireless protocols and output the data to the AFE for transmission. For reception the processor may be operable to receive data via the AFE process the received data and output received data to the memory and or the CPU . Exemplary protocols which may be supported by the second device include the ISO 18000 7 standard and protocols described in the above incorporated U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 376 filed on Mar. 2 2011.

The radio may comprise a processor and an analog front end AFE . The baseband processor may comprise circuitry operable to interface with the AFE to receive and transmit data and to process received and to be transmitted data. In some instances the baseband processor may be substantially similar to the baseband processor . In instances that the device is less resource constrained device such as a base station or network controller and the device is a more resource constrained device such as a battery powered tag the baseband processor may be less complex e.g. comprise fewer gates utilize less power utilize less memory etc. than the baseband processor . In one embodiment for example the baseband processor may be operable to implement more complex signal processing algorithms e.g. FEC decoding than the baseband processor .

The analog front end AFE may comprise circuitry suitable for processing received and or to be transmitted data in the analog domain. For transmission the AFE may receive digital data from the baseband processor process the data to generate corresponding RF signals and output the RF signals to the antenna . For reception the AFE may receive RF signals from the antenna process the RF signals to generate corresponding digital data and output the digital data to the baseband processor . In some instances the AFE may be substantially similar to the AFE . In instances that the device is less resource constrained device such as a base station or network controller and the device is a more resource constrained device such as a battery powered tag the AFE may be less complex e.g. comprise fewer gates utilize less power utilize less memory etc. than the AFE . In one embodiment for example the AFE may comprise a more sensitive receiver a more powerful transmitter than the AFE .

Circuitry of the memory may comprise one or more memory cells and may be operable to store data to the memory cell s and read data from the memory cell s . The one or more memory cell may comprise one or more volatile memory cells and or one or more non volatile memory cells. The memory may store data arranged for example as an indexed short file block ISFB and or indexed short file series block ISFSB as described in the above incorporated U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 376.

Circuitry of the memory may comprise one or more memory cells and may be operable to read data from the memory cell s and or store data to the memory cell s . The memory may store data arranged for example as an indexed short file block ISFB and or indexed short file series block ISFSB as described in the above incorporated U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 376. In some instances the memory may be substantially similar to the memory . In instances that the device is resource constrained the memory may be less complex e.g. comprise fewer gates utilize less power etc. than the memory .

Each of the clocks and may be operable to generate one or more oscillating signals which may be utilized to control synchronous circuitry of the device . Each of the clocks and may comprise for example one or more crystal oscillators phase locked loops and or direct digital synthesizers. Each of the clocks and may also comprise a date time or real time clock operable to keep track of time of day day of week day of month month and or year.

The interfaces and may enable configuring and or programming the devices and respectively. In an exemplary embodiment one or more values of one or more timing parameters may be programmed via the programming interfaces and or .

Each of the antennas and may be operable to transmit and receive electromagnetic signals in one or more frequency bands. In an embodiment of the invention the antennas and may be operable to transmit and receive signals in the ISM frequency band centered at 433.92 MHz.

In operation the device may be for example a base station or network controller and the device may be a mobile device such as a smart phone or a smartcard. The devices and may communicate via the radios and . In communicating over the physical medium e.g. the airwaves for wireless communication or a cable for wired communication values of one or more media access control MAC parameters that control when and or how to access the physical medium may be dynamic i.e. configured real time or on the fly . For example values of one or more MAC parameters may be changed on a per message and or per dialog an exchange of one or more logically related messages basis. Exemplary MAC parameters whose values may be dynamically determined include which channel s to transmit and or receive on whether to utilize CSMA how long to listen before transmitting how long to listen after transmitting and or how long a channel must be free before transmitting on that channel. Parameter values may for example change based on the contents of a message received over the medium and or based on instructions stored locally e.g. in memory for the device . Such instructions may for example be generated by an application and or operating system running on the device and or .

In operation the device may receive a request message and decide to transmit a response message in reply to the request message. For the transmission of the response message the congestion control module may receive a parameter T a parameter T a parameter CSMA options and a parameter ch list. The parameters may be utilized directly in controlling access to the physical medium and or utilized for determining values of other parameters which in turn may be utilized in controlling access to the physical medium. One or more of the parameters may have been received in and or derived from information contained in the received request message. In this manner the requesting device may control at least in part if how and or when the responding device transmits a response to the request.

The parameter ch list may comprise a list of channel identifiers where each channel identifier is uniquely associated with a particular combination of center frequency and bandwidth. The list of channels may correspond to channels on which the requesting device i.e. the device that sent the request message will listen for responses. The congestion control module may modify the parameter ch list to generate ch list which may then be passed onto the CSMA module . The modification of ch list to generate ch list may be for example to remove one or more channels from the list because the device is aware that the removed channel is highly congested the device does not support the channel and or for some other reason.

The parameter Tmay correspond to the amount of time that the device has to begin transmitting the response message onto the physical medium. In an exemplary embodiment Tmay correspond to T T where the value of T contention period or response timeout is the amount of time that the requesting device is going to listen for responses to the request message Tmay have been received in the request message and Tis the amount of time it will take the device to transmit the response message.

The parameter CSMA options may indicate whether to utilize carrier sense i.e. whether to listen before talk and or which equations and or algorithms the device should utilize for calculating values for one or more timing parameters utilized by the CSMA module and or the congestion control module . Two exemplary parameters which may be calculated are T guard time and T collision avoidance timeout . To illustrate in an exemplary embodiment Tmay be set equal to Tfor a first value of CSMA options but Tmay be set equal to T 2 for a second CSMA options. Other factors may additionally or alternatively be used for calculating T. Such factors may comprise for example characteristics e.g. type and or length of the response message and or characteristics e.g. data rate frequency bandwidth modulation type and or symbol rate of the channel onto which the response message is to be transmitted. After calculating T the congestion control module may store the value of Tin the register .

The parameter Tmay be an initial value for a parameter T guard time . T which may determine how long the device must sense the physical medium as being inactive before the device begins transmitting the response message onto the physical medium. Other factors in determining a value of T may include CSMA options T T characteristics e.g. type and or length of the response message and or characteristics e.g. data rate frequency bandwidth modulation type and or symbol rate of the channel onto which the response message is to be transmitted.

Upon initialization from the congestion control module the CSMA module may perform CSMA as for example described below in reference to . If an available channel is detected the CSMA module may assert TxEN and the flow control module may then manage the transmission of the response packet onto the medium on the available channel. Upon TxEN being asserted the flow control module may modify the value stored in the register . If after trying for a period of time equal to T none of the channels in the channel list are determined to be available then depending on the value of T the device may abort transmission of the response or may take a break and try again later. For example if the congestion control module sets T Tthen upon the CSMA failing to obtain access to the medium for a period of time T the device may abort transmission of the response message. Conversely if T

In step the device determines a value of one or more parameters that instruct devices receiving the request as to if how and or when to send responses to the request message. For example the device may determine a value of T the amount of time it will listen for responses to the request CSMA options a flag which indicates an equation and or algorithm that responding devices should use when calculating values for certain timing parameters and a list of one or more channels on which the device will listen for responses. The device may determine T CSMA options and or the channel list based on for example the type of request the symbol rate of the channel s over which the request will be transmitted and or responses received the results of past requests e.g. knowledge about the devices that have responded to past requests the location of the device e.g. based on received GPS signals other wireless signals and or user input the number or responses that are desired and or any other suitable criteria. For example the device may set Tto a larger value if it wants to receive many and or long responses and may set Tto a smaller value if it wants to receiver fewer and or shorter responses.

In step the device inserts the value s of the one or more parameters calculated in step into one or more fields of the request message. In step the device transmits the request message. In an exemplary embodiment the device may perform CSMA and transmit the request message only upon sensing that the medium is free. In such instances timing parameters utilized as part of the CSMA process may be the same as the values calculated for the potential response messages or may be different. For example first values of timing parameters such as Tand T may be utilized when transmitting request messages whereas second values of timing parameters such as Tand T may be utilized when transmitting response messages. In another exemplary embodiment for request messages the device may not sense whether another device is already transmitting because for example it may not care whether a collision occurs or may know e.g. through scheduling that the medium is free.

In step the request message is received by the device . In step the device processes the received request message and decides to transmit a response message. In step the device determine values of Tand T to be utilized for transmitting the response message. The value of Tfor the response message may be calculated for example as described above with respect to . The value of T for the response message be calculated as for example described below with respect to .

Referring now to in step it is determined whether the value of Tcalculated in step is compared to a threshold. If the value of Tis less than a threshold i.e. the requesting device will cease listening before the complete response message can be transmitted then in step the device aborts transmission of the response message.

Returning to step if the value of Tis greater than the threshold then in step the congestion control module triggers the CSMA process performed by the CSMA module . In step the CSMA process described below with respect to takes place. In step if transmission was successful i.e. either CSMA was disabled or an available channel for transmitting the response message was detected during step then the exemplary steps advance to step . In step the flow control module sets the Tregister to a value guaranteed to be less than the threshold utilized in step . For example the flow control module may set the Tregister to a value of 1.

Returning to step if the step did not result in a successful transmission then the exemplary steps advance to step . In step the congestion control module counts down an amount of time T. The value of Tmay be calculated based on variety of factors such as for example CSMA options T T T the length of the response message the type e.g. foreground or background of the response message the symbol rate at which the response message is to be transmitted and or a search score generated by comparing a received search token with locally stored data.

In step the value stored in the Tregister is updated. In an exemplary embodiment the value stored in the register may be updated by subtracting off the amount of time that has elapsed since the value was calculated. In another exemplary embodiment a new value of Tmay be calculated based on for example CSMA options T and or on how much time is left in the contention period the time period of duration Tduring which the requesting device will listen for responses .

Referring now to in step if CSMA is disabled i.e. the device is configured to transmit onto the medium without first sensing whether another device is currently transmitting then the steps advance to step . In step the CSMA module asserts TxEN. In step the message is transmitted by the flow control module .

Returning to step if CSMA is enabled then in step a variable i is set to 1. In step the physical layer receiver of the device is powered up and configured to receive on the ichannel identified by the parameter ch list . In step the CSMA module detects whether CS from the physical layer is asserted. The PHY may assert CS when the received signal strength is above a threshold. The threshold utilized by the RSSI module may have been pre configured by an administrator and or configured dynamically based on for example past performance and or based on information contained in the received request message. If CS is not asserted then in step the CSMA module waits for a period of time equal to T . In step the CSMA module again detects whether CS from the physical layer is asserted. If CS is not asserted then in step the CSMA module asserts TxEN. In step the flow control module manages the transmission of the response message onto the physical medium.

Returning to steps and if either of these steps detect that CS is asserted then the exemplary steps advance to step . In step the variable i is incremented by 1. In step the value of Tin register is updated by subtracting off the amount of time that has elapsed since the register was last programmed. In step the updated value of Tis compared to a threshold i.e. it is determined whether there would still be time to transmit the response message before the contention period ends . If not then in step TxEN remains deasserted and the steps advance to step . If so then in step it is determined whether all channels in the channel list have been checked for availability. If not then the exemplary steps return to step . If all channels have been checked then the exemplary steps advance to step .

In step the device may receive any remaining bits of the frame. In step the device may parse one or more fields of the received frame to determine whether the device was an intended recipient of the frame and or whether the device cares about the frame i.e. wants to devote resources to further processing the message . Frames not intended for the device and or not of interest to the device may be discarded without further processing. In step if there are additional frames to be received then the steps may return to step . If there are no additional frames to receive then in step the device may determine whether the received packet passes i.e. is not dropped during MAC filtering. If not then the device may return to step in which it may re evaluate Tand reinitialize reception. If so then the device may transition to a transmit state e.g. as described in portions of .

Although illustrate scenarios selecting between two values of T in practice values of T may be selected from a larger set of options such that T could be controlled with more granularity.

Referring to there is shown a scan n tuple a four tuple comprising a Channel ID field a scan type field a scan duration field and a time to next scan field . The Channel ID field may indicate a frequency and or bandwidth of a channel on which to listen for traffic. The scan type field may determine the type of frame s to listen for e.g. background or foreground frames . The scan duration field may indicate how long to listen to the channel. The time to next scan field may indicate how long to wait between listening to the channel identified in scan n tuple and listening to a channel identified in another scan n tuple.

Referring to there is shown an exemplary sequence of scan n tuples where M is an integer. Each of the scan n tuples in the sequence may be as described with respect to .

In operation upon entering an idle state of operation e.g. at a time triggered by a real time clock the device may read the first scan n tuple listen to the channel identified by field of scan n tuple for the type of frame identified in field of scan n tuple . The device may begin counting down the amount of time in field while concurrently beginning listening for the amount of time in field . After the longer of these two time fields expires the device may read the next scan n tuple in the sequence and operate accordingly that is enter a listen state followed by a wait state according to the fields of the scan n tuple . The device may repeat this process until it has operated in accordance with each of the scan n tuples . After completing the scan described in the last n tuple of the sequence the device may return to the first n tuple in the sequence .

Referring to there is shown a beacon n tuple a six tuple comprising a Channel ID field a CSMA options field a pointer a contention period duration T field a redundancy count field and a time to next beacon field . The Channel ID field may indicate a frequency and or bandwidth of a channel on which to transmit a beacon. The CSMA options field may indicate if responses should utilize CSMA when responding and if so how they should determine parameters for performing the CSMA. The pointer field may point to a file or block of data that is to be transmitted as part of the beacon e.g. transmitted as the payload of a frame . The contention period duration field may indicate how long the device should listen for responses to the beacon. The redundancy count field may indicate how many times the beacon transmission should be repeated. The time to next beacon field may indicate how long to wait between transmitting the beacon described in beacon n tuple and transmitting a beacon described in another beacon n tuple.

Referring to there is shown an exemplary sequence of beacon n tuples where M is an integer. Each of the beacon n tuples in the sequence may be as described with respect to .

In operation upon entering a beacon transmit state of operation e.g. at a time triggered by a real time clock the device may read the first beacon n tuple and transmit a beacon comprising data pointed to by field of n tuple and fields determined by field of beacon n tuple. The device may then listen for responses to the beacon for the amount of time indicated in field of n tuple . The device may repeat the beacon up to the number of times in field of n tuple until a response is received or until the amount of time Tin field of n tuple elapses. After a response is received or Telapses the device may read the next n tuple in the sequence and operate accordingly that is enter a transmit state followed by a listen state and or a wait state according to the fields of the n tuple . The device may repeat this process until it has operated in accordance with each of the n tuples . After completing beacon transmission in accordance with the last n tuple in the sequence the device may exit the beacon transmit mode of operation or may return to the first n tuple in the sequence .

The n tuples sequences and states of operation described with respect to are only exemplary. Other implementations in which channel scan and and or transmit operations are controlled by one or more ordered sets of parameters will be understood from the foregoing and from inspection of the above incorporated U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 376.

The sequences and may be instances of the sequence described in . Which of the sequences and is utilized for scanning at any particular time may depend on a variety of factors such as for example where the device is located time of day week month year type s of device s to be communicated with number of devices to be communicated with types of messages to be listened for time since last transmit and or receive activity etc. In an exemplary embodiment the sequence may be utilized when the device is in an idle state of operation and the sequence may be utilized when the device is in a hold state of operation. In an exemplary embodiment the sequence may be utilized when the device is operating in a first location and the sequence may be utilized when the device is operating in a second location

The sequences and may be instances of the sequence described in . Which of the sequences and is utilized for transmitting beacons at any particular time may depend on a variety of factors such as for example where the device is located time of day week month year type s of device s to be communicated with number of devices to be communicated with types of data to be sent in the beacons etc. In an exemplary embodiment the sequence may be utilized when transmitting beacons intended for a first type of device and the sequence may be utilized when transmitting beacons intended for a second type of device. In an exemplary embodiment the sequence may be utilized when transmitting beacons in a first location and the sequence may be utilized when transmitting beacons in a second location.

The portion may store values of one or more parameters such as for example parameters which configure the congestion control module the flow control module the CSMA module and or the RSSI module . Such parameters may for example be programmed into the portion by a system administrator and or may be configured based on received request messages.

The portion may store data as for example described with reference to the indexed short file block ISFB the indexed short file series block ISFSB and or the generic file block GFB described in the above incorporated U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 376.

In step the PHY of the device may be configured according to the Channel ID. That is the center frequency and bandwidth of the receiver may be configured according to the Channel ID.

In step the device may listen for a sync word that corresponds to the scan type of the scan i. If the scan duration elapses and or if the received signal strength on the channel being scanned goes below a threshold value which may be configurable without receiving the sync word then in step the device may wait for the remainder of T which may have started counting in step or e.g. if 100 milliseconds have elapsed since the n tuple was retrieved then the device may wait for T 100 ms in step .

In step it may be determined whether i has reached a maximum value. The maximum value of i may be for example M 1 where M is the number of n tuples in the sequence . If i has not reached its maximum value then in step i may be incremented and the steps may return to step .

Returning to step if i has reached its maximum value then in step the scan sequence may be complete. Upon completing the scan sequence the device may for example begin a new scan sequence begin a beacon transmit sequence or go into a sleep mode.

Returning to step if a sync word of the type being listened for is received before the scan duration times out then in step the device will receive one or more frames and in step process the received frame s . If in step one or more of the received frames are dropped during MAC filtering step may be resumed.

Returning to step if R is less than or equal to zero then in step the device may wait for the remainder of T which may have started counting in step or e.g. if 100 milliseconds have elapsed since the n tuple was retrieved then the device may wait for T 100 ms in step . In step it may be determined whether i has reached a maximum value. The maximum value of i may be for example the number of n tuples in a sequence . If i has not reached its maximum value and no acknowledgement was detected in step then in step i may be incremented and the steps may return to step .

Returning to step if i has reached its maximum value then in step the beacon transmit sequence may be complete. Upon completing the beacon transmit sequence the device may for example begin a new beacon transmit sequence begin a scan sequence or go into a sleep mode.

Referring to in response to a request to implement a first MAC protocol the parameter generation module generates a set of parameter values which may be utilized by for example the congestion control module the flow control module and or the CSMA module .

Referring to in response to a request to implement a second MAC protocol the parameter generation module generates a set of parameter values which may be utilized by for example the congestion control module the flow control module and or the CSMA module .

In the parameter values to realize the first and second MAC protocols were static. Some MAC protocols however may require the periodic or continual e.g. at or near real time updating of values of the parameters. For example in a third MAC protocol is implemented by alternating between a set of parameter values and a set of parameter values .

Thus as illustrated in a variety of time and or frequency division multiple access protocols may be implemented in the device simply through intelligent control of one or more parameter values. Such protocols could include for example media access control utilized in IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.15.4.

Additional details of the frames and fields described above with respect to are described in the above incorporated U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 376.

In accordance with various aspects of the present invention an electronic device may be operable to control access to a physical medium e.g. airwaves a copper cable or an optical fiber utilizing carrier sense multiple access CSMA . The amount of time that the electronic device must sense the physical medium as being inactive before it permits transmission of a message onto the physical medium may be determined based on the size of the message the type of the message the symbol rate at which the message is to be transmitted and or a channel onto which the message is to be transmitted. Similarly how long and or how many times the electronic device attempts to transmit the message may be based the size of the message the type of the message the symbol rate at which the message is to be transmitted and or a channel onto which the message is to be transmitted.

The message may be in response to a request received by the electronic device via the physical medium and the channel onto which the message is to be transmitted may be determined based on a field e.g. Response Channel List of the received request. The field of the received request may comprises a list of channels and the electronic device may sequentially listen to channels in the list until a channel meeting certain requirements e.g. signal strength below a threshold for at least a period of time T is found or until a timeout occurs e.g. Thas elapsed since a CSMA process was initiated or Thas elapsed since the request was sent . The maximum amount of time that the electronic device attempts to transmit the message onto the physical medium may be determined based on a field e.g. Response timeout of the received request message. While the message is pending transmission a portion of the electronic device may alternate between a listen state and a wait state wherein the amount of time in one or both of the listen state and the wait state may be determined based on one or more fields e.g. Response timeout and or CA type of the received request. Additionally or alternatively the one or more fields of the received request may determine an equation and or algorithm utilized by the electronic device for the determining the amount of time spent in one or both of the listen state and the wait state.

The electronic device may comprise memory and a receiver and may be operable to read a series of n tuples from the memory each of the n tuple comprising a channel identifier a scan duration value and a time to next scan value. For each of the read n tuples the device may be operable to configure the receiver to receive on the channel associated with the channel identifier for an amount of time equal to the scan duration value and power down the receiver for an amount of time equal to the time to next scan value minus the scan duration value.

The electronic device may comprise a memory a transmitter and a receiver and may be operable to read a series of n tuples from the memory each of the n tuple comprising a channel identifier a contention period value and a time to next scan value. For each of the read n tuples the device may be operable to configure the transmitter to transmit a beacon on the channel associated with the channel identifier configure the receiver to listen for a response to the beacon for an amount of time equal to the contention period value and wait a period of time equal to the time to next scan value minus the contention period value before operating based on the next n tuple in the series of n tuples.

Other embodiments of the invention may provide a non transitory computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a non transitory machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for dynamic media access control in a multiple access system.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

