---

title: Camshaft with axially movable cam pack
abstract: A camshaft includes a carrier shaft which can be mounted rotatably along a shaft axis and at least one cam pack or package axially displaceably disposed on the carrier shaft. The cam pack includes at least two cams and at least one adjusting member for axial adjustment of the cam pack. The cams and the at least one adjusting member are cast integrally with a carrier body in an axially adjacent configuration and are connected to one another by the carrier body. The cams and/or the adjusting member include an inner toothing which engages in an axially displaceable manner with an outer toothing of the carrier shaft. A cam pack and a method for producing a camshaft are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09261177&OS=09261177&RS=09261177
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA TECCENTER AG
number: 09261177
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20120629
---
The invention relates to a camshaft with a carrier shaft which can be mounted rotatably in a shaft axis wherein at least one cam pack is disposed axially displaceable on the carrier shaft and wherein the cam pack comprises at least two cams and at least one adjusting member for the axial adjustment of the cam pack.

Such camshafts are used for internal combustion engines which can be operated with an adjustable valve lift or with adjustable valve control times. The valves of the internal combustion engine are controlled by means of cam packs which are disposed axially displaceable on the rotating carrier shaft. The valves can be controlled with different cams by the axial displacement of the cam pack on the carrier shaft wherein the different cams can have different cam shapes. The cam lobes can be more or less geometrically pronounced or the position of the cam lobes can be varied relative to one another in the circumferential direction. Cams are also known that are constituted as zero lift cams.

Cam packs comprise a plurality of cams wherein at least one adjusting member is a component of the cam pack by means of which the axial displacement is introduced into the cam pack.

There is known from DE 10 2009 022 657 A1 a camshaft with a carrier shaft which can be mounted rotatably in the shaft axis in order to be operated in an internal combustion engine. Disposed on the carrier shaft is a cam pack which is constituted for example by four cams. The cam pack comprises a carrier tube which is disposed axially displaceable on the carrier shaft by means of an inner toothing and an outer toothing so that the rotary motion of the carrier shaft is transmitted via a geometrical form fit connection to the carrier tube. A plurality of cams are disposed on the carrier tube so that the cam pack comprises four cams with two different cam contours. For the axial displacement of the cam pack the carrier tube comprises axial stops in which curved paths are introduced on the external periphery said curved paths being able to cooperate with a transmission element.

DE 10 2004 011 586 A1 shows a further camshaft with a carrier shaft and a carrier tube is shown which is constituted in one piece with a plurality of cams. The carrier tube comprises an inner toothing which engages with an outer toothing of the carrier shaft in order to dispose the cam pack in an axially displaceable manner on the carrier shaft and at the same time to produce a rotary transmission of the carrier shaft to the cam pack by means of a geometrical form fit connection. The carrier tube comprises a bearing element between the cam contours in order to mount the cam pack rotatably in a bearing block which can for example be a component of the cylinder head.

The camshafts according to the prior art disadvantageously comprise cam packs which necessitate a carrier tube produced from a steel material in an assembled variant in order to joint various control elements and adjusting members in a costly way to form a cam pack and which have to be produced solidly. The carrier tube serves for the mounting on the carrier shaft and comprises the necessary inner toothing which can engage with the outer toothing on the carrier shaft. Disadvantageously an expensive structure arises due to the use of a carrier tube for mounting the cams and adjusting members and the cams have to be disposed with a necessary jointing technique on the carrier tube. If the carrier tube and the cams and also for example the adjusting member are constituted as a whole in one piece a component arises which is expensive to produce and on which a large number of processing operations have to be carried out and all the components have to be produced from the same material. However it is technically advantageous to be able to carry out both the machining and the heat treatment of various elements of the cam pack individually.

The object of the present invention consists in providing a camshaft with a cam pack which overcomes the aforementioned drawbacks of the prior art and has a simple structure wherein the various elements of the cam pack can also be machined and heat treated individually.

This object is solved proceeding from a camshaft with a carrier shaft which can be mounted rotatably along a shaft axis. At least one cam pack or package is disposed axially displaceably on the carrier shaft and includes at least two cams and at least one adjusting member for axial adjustment of the cam pack. The cams and the at least one adjusting member are cast integrally with a carrier body in an axially adjacent configuration and are connected to one another by the carrier body. The cams and or the adjusting member include an inner toothing which engages in an axially displaceable manner with an outer toothing of the carrier shaft. Advantageous developments of the invention are given in the dependent claims.

The invention includes the technical teaching that the cams and the at least one adjusting member are cast integral with a carrier body in an axially adjacent arrangement and are connected to one another by means of the latter.

The invention proceeds from the idea of connecting the individual control elements of the cam pack directly to one another in order to constitute the cam pack without the use of a carrier tube. According to the invention the connection of the individual control elements such as the cams the adjusting member or also a bearing element are cast in a carrier body and a simple structure of the cam pack is enabled by the casting technique wherein the various elements of the cam pack can previously be machined and heat treated individually before they are cast with one another by means of the body. Individual cams or one or more cams and for example the adjusting member can be previously connected at least partially to one another with firm bonding type methods or mechanically with connecting elements then being cast with the body using the method according to the invention. As a result of the direct connection of the cams and of the at least one adjusting member to the cams disposed adjacent to the latter in the general idea of the invention also each element participating in a cam pack and as a result of the integral casting of a body the use of a metallic carrier tube that has to be provided beforehand as an individual part becomes unnecessary and the cams and the at least one adjusting member can be disposed axially displaceable directly on the carrier shaft. As a result of the direct connection of the cams to one another and of the adjusting member to the cams disposed adjacent to the latter a composite structure of individual elements is created which can be machined individually before being connected jointly to one another. After the composite structure comprising the cams and the adjusting member has being created the latter can be disposed directly on the carrier shaft without further use of an individual carrier tube or any other element.

The invention offers the particular advantage of constituting the cams and the adjusting member for the direct arrangement on the carrier shaft with an inner toothing which engages in an axially displaceable manner with an outer toothing of the carrier shaft and at the same time can transmit torques in the circumferential direction. The inner toothing is preferably introduced directly into the cams and or into the adjusting member but not into the cast carrier body in order to dispose the formed cam pack on the carrier shaft in an axially displaceable and rotation transmitting manner. The carrier body thus preferably has no torque transmitting contact with the carrier shaft.

As a further advantage it is possible for example for only outer elements for example a first outer cam and a mutually opposite second outer cam to be constituted with an inner toothing which can engage with a for example continuous outer toothing on the carrier shaft. The advantage is thus obtained that only two elements of the cam pack have to be constituted with an inner toothing which preferably terminate the cam pack on the outside. Further elements of the cam pack which are disposed between the elements disposed on the outside with the inner toothing can optionally comprise further inner toothings.

The cast carrier body can comprise cutouts through which the inner toothing extends pointing radially inwards so that despite the presence of a carrier body which extends for example over the entire length of the cam pack the inner toothing in the cams and or in the adjusting member can be brought into direct engagement with the outer toothing on the carrier shaft. The cams and the adjusting member comprise through bores through which the carrier shaft extends and the inner toothing can be limited to individual regions on the inner side of the through bores. Once the carrier body is cast the latter surrounds at the edge the regions in which the inner toothing is present in the through bores so that the inner toothing can extend radially inwards through the cutouts thus formed in the carrier body.

Furthermore convex regions can be provided in the through bores into which convex regions a securing section of the carrier body is introduced. For example three or more convex regions can be provided preferably distributed uniformly over the circumference of the through bores and a securing section of the carrier body extends into each of the convex regions. The securing section is formed by a moulding in the convex regions whereby the material of the carrier body is cast and thus passes into the convex regions. The form fit connection thus arises between the cast carrier body and the cams or the adjusting member in the circumferential direction.

It is also conceivable for the cast carrier body to comprise circumferential collars which are cast in recesses wherein the recesses are introduced into the cams so that an axial securing of the cams is created. The collars are also moulded in the recesses of the cams or the adjusting member during the production of the collars in the casting process of the carrier body in particular an at least small degree of shrinkage can occur during the hardening and or the cooling of the cast carrier body which produces a permanent axial bracing on the cams and the adjusting member. For example a shoulder can be provided between the cams and the adjusting member said shoulder forming a free portion of the cast carrier body and thus producing a buffer effect with the axial bracing. The recesses into which the collars of the carrier body engage are disposed on the side of the cams that is turned away from the adjusting member so that a form fit connection between the cams and the adjusting member arises with the bracing of the cams and the adjusting member.

As a further advantage the cast carrier body can comprise integral mouldings which extend into cutouts that are introduced into the cams. Securing of the cams against rotation around the shaft axis can be created by the integral mouldings which are molded in the cutouts.

The adjusting member can be constituted in at least two parts wherein a first part is constituted by a control contour element and a further part can be constituted by the cast carrier body in particular so that the control contour element is embedded in the carrier body. The embedding of the control contour element in the carrier body takes place by the material of the carrier body being cast around the control contour element so that the latter protrudes out of the carrier body only with the control contour in the outer surface. The adjusting member does not therefore comprise an inner toothing and does not therefore participate in the connection between the cam pack and the carrier shaft. On the contrary the control contour element can be treated during handling as a cam element and the material of the carrier body infiltrates both the cams and the control contour element.

As a further advantage at least one latching groove can be introduced into at least one of the cams but preferably into the adjusting member said latching groove being able to cooperate with a latching means for the axial latching of the cam pack said latching means being disposed in the carrier shaft. The latching means can for example be a spring loaded ball which is pressed into the latching grooves. Defined axial positions of the cam pack can thus be defined by the axial adjustment wherein the number of latching grooves preferably corresponds to the number of cams of differing cam contour. The latching grooves can be introduced particular advantageously into elements of the cam pack that are not constituted with an inner toothing.

The cams and the adjusting member can be connected to one another at least over partial regions of their respective end faces. The end faces can be formed by plane faces with which the shaft axis forms a surface normal. Once the cams and the adjusting member are brought flat one against the other in an axially adjacent arrangement the connection can be made between the cams and or the adjusting member. The connections can be constituted particularly advantageously as firmly bonded connections.

The firmly bonded connections between the cams and the at least one adjusting member and the cams adjacent thereto can be carried out by means of weld joints and weld joints can be disposed for example on the outer periphery and or on the inner periphery. The weld joints can be produced for example with a laser beam welding method or with an electron beam welding method in order to minimise the thermally influenced material zone in the cams and or in the adjusting member. Furthermore the thermal distortion of the pack arrangement of the cam pack can be minimised by these welding methods. The weld joint can be produced particularly advantageously with the formation of a vapour capillary in order to produce a particularly deep weld between the end faces of the cams and or the adjusting member so that the weld joint is capable of withstanding particularly high mechanical loads.

According to a possible embodiment of the invention the firmly bonded connections between the cams and the at least one adjusting member can be carried out by means of solder joints and or adhesive joints. In principle finish machining of the functional surfaces of the cams and or the adjusting member can take place after the firmly bonded connections are have been produced between the cams and or the adjusting member.

As a further advantage the connections between the cams with one another and of the adjusting member to the cams disposed adjacent thereto can be constituted by at least one and preferably a plurality of tie rods distributed uniformly on the periphery of the cam pack said tie rod or rods extending through the cams and the adjusting member. The tie rods can be constituted by threaded bolts or suchlike and can take up a tensile stress after arrangement in the cam pack. The cams and the adjusting member are consequently pressed axially against one another in order to form a mechanically loadable composite structure comprising the cams and the adjusting member. Alternatively it is also conceivable to connect the cams to one another and the adjusting member to its adjacent cams by means of one or more rivet joints. As a further advantage the cams and the adjusting member can for example be pinned together or form fit geometries can be provided on the end faces of the cams and the adjusting member in order then to pass the tie rods through the cams and the adjusting member and thus to place them under tensile stress.

As a further possible embodiment of the invention the connections of the cams and of the at least one adjusting member to its adjacent cams can be constituted in each case by at least one mechanically fitted jointing element acting in a form fit manner which is preferably disposed on the cams and or at least one adjusting member or is constituted between the end faces and acts in a form fit manner in addition to the cast carrier body. The jointing elements acting in a form fit manner can be constituted in one piece with the cams and or the adjusting member or can even be moulded onto the latter. For example threaded joints bayonet joints undercut joints or other joints can be provided between the cams and or the adjusting member or jointing elements such as slot nuts or suchlike are provided. In principle any possible connection embodiment can be provided between the cams and or the adjusting member in order to connect the latter to one another in a mechanically loadable manner. The connection of the cams and or the adjusting member should preferably be able to be produced free from play and the connection should maintain the rotational position of the elements around the common shaft axis.

According to a further advantageous embodiment the cam pack can comprise at least one bearing element which is preferably constituted for the formation of a zero lift cam. A zero lift cam comprises a cylindrical lateral surface wherein the bearing element can have an axial width which enables both the bearing of the cam pack by means of the bearing element as well as the simultaneous active connection of the bearing element to a tappet of the valve control.

The invention further relates to a cam pack comprising at least two cams and at least one adjusting member for the axial adjustment of the cam pack on a carrier shaft wherein the cams and the at least one adjusting member are cast integral with a carrier body in an axially adjacent arrangement and are connected to one another by means of the latter and are constituted as a composite structure for direct arrangement on the carrier shaft. The advantages and embodiments of the aforementioned camshaft with a corresponding cam pack are also taken into account for the generic cam pack.

The invention further relates to a method for producing a camshaft with a carrier shaft which can be mounted rotatably in a shaft axis wherein at least one cam pack is disposed axially displaceable on the carrier shaft and wherein the cam pack comprises at least two cams and at least one adjusting member for the axial adjustment of the cam pack wherein according to the invention the method comprises at least the steps of arranging at least two cams in a position adjacent to the adjusting member the at least partial casting around the cams and the adjusting member with a carrier body in order to form a composite structure and the direct arrangement of the composite structure on the carrier shaft.

The method thus comprises the introduction of an inner toothing into the cams and or into the adjusting member in order to be engaged in an axially displaceable manner with an outer toothing on the carrier shaft. The inner toothing is introduced directly into the material of the cams and or of the adjusting member. According to a further method step there is introduced into at least one cam and or into the adjusting member at least one latching groove which can cooperate with a latching means for the axial latching of the cam pack said latching means being disposed in the carrier shaft.

According to a possible embodiment of the method according to the invention the inner toothing can be introduced in each case individually into the cams and into the adjusting member the cams and the adjusting member only being mutually jointed subsequently in an axially adjacent arrangement.

Alternatively the cams and the adjusting member can be mutually jointed in an axially adjacent arrangement the inner toothing only then being introduced into the cams and into the adjusting member. In the same way the at least one latching groove can be introduced before or after the jointing of the cams and the adjusting member with one another.

Furthermore the method can make provision such that the adjusting member is constituted in two parts and a first part is constituted by a control contour element around which partial casting takes place with a portion of the carrier body in the casting process. The control contour element itself forms a kind of annular body which like the cam elements can be brought into position in order then to cast the carrier body integral with the elements.

In order to perform the method the at least one cam and the adjusting member can be introduced into an original moulding tool in an arrangement axially adjacent to one another wherein the carrier body is then cast by a casting process into a hollow space bordered by the original moulding tool the cams and the adjusting member. The cams and the adjusting member or the control contour element can when being placed in the original moulding tool already be positioned and held in such a way that the subsequent position for the formation of the cam pack is already produced by the original moulding tool. The material for the formation of the carrier body can then be cast or injected into the original moulding tool so that the latter then hardens. A composite structure is thus formed which holds the cams and the adjusting member or the control contour element together to form a cam pack.

Cam pack comprises for example six cams and wherein an adjusting member is provided and a groove guide is introduced in adjusting member on the outer periphery of the adjusting member . Cams and are located on a first side of adjusting member and cams and are located on an opposite second side of adjusting member . A through bore through which carrier shaft is passed extends through cams and through adjusting member . An inner toothing is introduced in this through bore formed by the individual components of cam pack said inner toothing engaging with an outer toothing on carrier shaft in an axially displaceable and torque transmitting manner. Outer toothing of carrier shaft is constituted wider in the direction of shaft axis than the width of cam pack and cam pack can be adjusted axially in the direction of the shaft axis whereby an adjusting element is guided in groove guide of adjusting member . As a result of the form fit connection of inner toothing and outer toothing a rotary motion of the carrier shaft is at the same time transmitted to cam pack .

Cams and adjusting member are connected to one another in an axially adjacent arrangement with one another so that as a result of the connection of these components of cam pack via their respective end faces constituted in the axial direction a composite structure is created which forms cam pack . According to the invention this does not require a carrier tube on which the individual components such as cams and adjusting member have to be disposed. Inner toothing and latching grooves can thus be introduced directly into cams and into adjusting member wherein for example three latching grooves are introduced on the inside into adjusting member which are able to cooperate with a latching means for the axial latching of cam pack said latching means being disposed in carrier shaft in a manner not shown in detail.

Cams each have different cam contours for example cams can have different cam lobes or the cam lobes are constituted at different angles around the circumference. As a result of the axial adjustability of cam pack tappets having a fixed axial position can cooperate with different cams or in order for example to change the valve lift but also for example to change the valve control times.

Finally shows a further embodiment of a cam pack with an adjusting member and cams wherein cam is also constituted as a bearing element . The cam is constituted as a zero lift cam and has a cylindrical outer circumference. Besides the tapping not shown in detail by means of a tappet for the valve control cam pack is mounted in a bearing block into which a bearing is introduced. Cam thus performs both as a zero lift function for the valve control as well as the function for the bearing of cam pack . The connection between the components of cam pack can be constituted according to the example of embodiment in in or in .

As a result a cam pack is created which can be constituted without the use of a carrier tube. Furthermore the possibility remains of feeding the different components of cam pack in each case individually to mechanical and or thermal processing steps the components only then being connected to one another to form a cam pack .

Inner toothing which is introduced into cams and into adjusting member can be introduced individually into the respective components before the creation of the jointing connections or inner toothing is introduced into cam pack when the jointing connections between the individual components have already been created.

In order to connect cams and with one another and to connect the cams to adjusting member a carrier body is shown which is cast with cams and and with a control contour element of adjusting member . Carrier body thus extends over the entire length of cam pack and cams and as well as control contour element comprise through bores through which one part carrier body extends. For the casting of carrier body two of cams and in the given position for the formation of the cam groups and control contour element can in each case be placed into an original moulding tool said original moulding tool comprising further tool moulding parts in order to form the passage through carrier body . Once cams and and control contour element have been placed in the original moulding tool carrier body can be cast and hardened. The central passage region through cam pack can be formed by a tool moulding part the effect of which is that in the internal regions cutouts remain free through which an inner toothing can extend which is present on the inside in cams and . Inner toothing represents the connection of cams to the carrier shaft the inner toothing being introduced on the inside in cams . Latching grooves can be provided on the inner side of cam pack in another way that is not shown.

Control contour element is embedded in the central region of carrier body in such a way that adjusting member arises with the corresponding section of carrier body . Securing sections extend through the interior along shaft axis said securing sections being able to engage in the convex regions in cams and as is shown in greater detail in following in the exploded view.

Adjusting member comprises a control contour element and a body portion of carrier body and control contour element comprises an outer control contour which can cooperate with a control device which is disposed static beside the cam shaft and enables a displacement of cam pack on carrier shaft along shaft axis see in this regard .

From the individual representation of cams and it can be seen that the latter each comprise a through bore through which a part of carrier body extends. The part of carrier body that connects cams and has a basket like structure with securing sections and circumferential collars . Securing sections can engage in convex regions which are introduced in the interior of through bore and are used for stabilization and securing against the rotation of cams and and of adjusting member relative to one another in the circumferential direction. Circumferential collars sit in recesses which are present on the side of cams and . As a result of the form fit connection of circumferential collars of carrier body with recesses in cams and cams and are connected to adjusting member in an axially secured and mechanically loadable manner said adjusting member being constituted by control contour element and a portion of cast carrier body .

Cutouts are also shown in a radial position beneath the cam group of cams and and integral mouldings engage in cutouts said integral mouldings being integrally moulded on carrier body .

The geometrical formations on carrier body arise through corresponding mouldings on cams and and on control contour element . The free surfaces of cast carrier body shown in are moulded on tool parts which are a component of an original moulding tool into which cams and and control contour element are introduced before the material for the formation of carrier body is cast.

The invention is not limited in its implementation to the aforementioned preferred examples of embodiment. On the contrary a number of variants are conceivable which make use of the presented solution even with fundamentally different embodiments. All the features and or advantages emerging from the claims the description or the drawings including structural details or spatial arrangements may be essential to the invention both in themselves as well as in the most varied combinations.

