---

title: Lipoxin analogs and methods for the treatment of periodontal disease
abstract: This invention provides new lipoxin analogs, compositions containing analogs, and methods of using these compounds and compositions for treating and preventing oral inflammation, including gingivitis, periodontitis, and other forms of periodontal disease. The invention also provides for methods of treating and preventing oral inflammation, including gingivitis, periodontitis, and other forms of periodontal disease with compositions containing COX-2 inhibitors. Further, the invention provides methods for preventing systemic diseases beyond the oral cavity that are related to periodontal disease using the composition containing lipoxin analogs, COX-2 inhibitors, or both.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08604229&OS=08604229&RS=08604229
owner: Brigham and Women's Hospital, Inc.
number: 08604229
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120109
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 892 872 filed Sep. 28 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 093 417 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 539 728 filed Aug. 12 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 812 054 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 239 444 filed Sep. 20 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 700 650 which is a national phase filing of PCT Patent Application No. PCT US01 09096 filed Mar. 20 2001 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 190 656 filed Mar. 20 2000.

This invention was made with Government Support under Contract Number DE13499 awarded by the National Institute of Dental Craniofacial Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to lipoxin compounds and COX 2 inhibitors. The present invention also relates to the treatment and prevention of oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis and other forms of periodontal disease. Further the invention relates to methods of preventing systemic diseases beyond the oral cavity that are related to periodontal disease.

Periodontal diseases ranging from gingivitis to more severe forms of periodontitis are initiated by a bacterial infection followed by a host response that may lead to a highly degenerative oral disease including tooth loss and tissue damage Page R. C. 1998 Ann. Periodontol. 3 108 . The current treatments of periodontal diseases which affect a large percentage of the population involve primarily the use of compositions containing antimicrobial compounds or various non steroidal antiinflammatory agents NSAIDs .

Although bacteria appear to be essential for the causation of periodontitis progression of periodontal disease is dependent on the host response to pathogens that colonize the tooth surface Hart T. C. et al. 1994 J. Periodontol. 65 521 . In turn periodontal disease can be controlled chemotherapeutically by uncoupling host mediated destruction rather than reducing the etiological load Offenbacher S. et al. 1993 J. Periodontol. 64 432 . Along these lines a body of evidence has identified the inhibition of PGEformation and its presence at gingival sites as being relevant therapeutic interventions. For example PGEgeneration from gingival homogenates is significantly inhibited by flurbiprofen ElAttar T. M. A. et al. 1984 J. Periodontol. 55 536 and COX derived eicosanoids in crevicular fluid CF are decreased in animals taking flurbiprofen Smith M. A. et al. 1993 Infection and Immunity 61 1453 Offenbacher S. et al. 1989 J. Periodontal Res. 24 63 . Flurbiprofen also reduced CF PGElevels gingival inflammation tooth attachment loss and bone loss and in some cases resulted in bone gain Pauletto N. et al. 1997 J. Can. Dent. Assoc. 63 824 . In humans flurbiprofen dramatically decreased the CF PGElevels Abramson M. M. et al. 1992 J. Periodont. Res. 27 539 . These findings suggest that NSAIDs may exert their pharmacological action of inhibiting COX derived pro inflammatory eicosanoids within the periodontium and suggest that novel anti inflammatory agents might be useful in managing periodontal diseases.

Polymorphonuclear leukocytes PMN neutrophils are the most abundant immune cells recruited to early inflammatory periodontal lesions and are the most numerous host cells within the periodontal tissues Hart T. C. et al. 1994 J. Periodontol. 65 521 . The presence of Gram negative oral pathogens represents the primary etiologic factor however the progression of periodontal disease is dependent on the host response to pathogenic bacteria that colonize the tooth surface. Hence recruitment of PMN followed by aberrant release of inflammatory mediators not only contributes to the onset of periodontal disease and is associated with rapid and widespread tissue destruction Daniel M. A. et al. 1996 J. Periodontol. 67 1070 but can also be further amplified by the release of an array of inflammatory mediators by neutrophils within the periodontium.

It is well known that PMN participate in host defense against bacterial infections and are also involved in noxious inflammatory reactions Weiss S. J. et al. 1981 J. Clin. Invest. 68 714 Babior B. M. 1984 Blood 64 959 . Recruitment of neutrophils to the periodontium contributes to the progression of periodontal disease and to the destruction of periodontal tissues Page R. C. 1998 Ann. Periodontol. 3 108 Daniel M. A. et al. 1996 J. Periodontol. 67 1070 .

Several inflammatory mediators such as cytokines chemokines and metalloproteases are associated with periodontal disease Romanelli R. et al. 1999 Infect. Immun. 67 2319 Gainet J. et al. 1998 Lab. Invest. 78 755 Assuma R. et al. 1998 J. Immunol. 160 403 . Other prominent mediators are the arachidonic acid derived products including leukotriene B LTB and prostaglandin E PGE Offenbacher S. et al. 1986 J. Periodontal Res. 21 101 . Indeed many of the pathophysiological events that occur in periodontal diseases can be explained to a large extent by the activities of lipid mediators Solomon L. M. et al. 1968 J. Invest. Dermatol. 51 280 Raisz L. G. et al. 1974 Prostaglandins 8 377 Klein D. C. et al. 1970 Endocrinology 86 1436 Crunkhorn P. et al. 1969 Br. J. Pharmacol. 36 216 Collier J. G. et al. 1972 Br. J. Pharmacol. 44 374 . For example LTB a well appreciated and potent chemoattractant also initiates the accumulation of leukocytes within inflamed sites stimulates the release of granule associated enzymes Borgeat P. et al. 1990 Clin. Biochem. 23 459 and was recently found to stimulate bone resorption Traianedes K. et al. 1998 Endocrinology 139 3178 .

Along these lines PGEis a very potent stimulator of bone loss which is held to be a hallmark of periodontal disease Zubery Y. et al. 1998 Infect. Immun. 66 4158 . PGEis also well appreciated for its ability to directly mediate vasodilation increase vascular permeability enhance pain perception by bradykinin and histamine alter connective tissue metabolism and enhance osteoclastic bone resorption Tsai C. C. et al. 1998 J. Dentistry 26 97 . The levels of PGEare significantly elevated in the crevicular fluid CF of patients with periodontal infections especially localized juvenile periodontitis when compared to healthy sites. These levels correlate with disease severity and aggressiveness and constitute a reliable indicator of ongoing clinical periodontal tissue destruction Offenbacher S. et al. 1984 J. Periodontal Res. 19 1 . CF PGElevels can also be used to predict future acute loss of periodontal attachment Offenbacher S. et al. 1986 J. Periodontal Res. 21 101 .

Pathophysiological responses that occur in periodontal diseases including inflammatory cell recruitment edema pain bone resorption and collagen destruction can be mediated for the most part by effector molecules originating from the arachidonate cascade Solomon L. M. et al. 1968 J. Invest. Dermatol. 51 280 Raisz L. G. et al. 1974 Prostaglandins 8 377 Klein D. C. et al. 1970 Endocrinology 86 1436 Crunkhorn P. et al. 1969 Br. J. Pharmacol. 36 216 Collier J. G. et al. 1972 Br. J. Pharmacol. 44 374 . In particular considerable evidence has demonstrated the importance of PGEin the pathogenesis of periodontal diseases. In vitro PGEincreases osteoclast numbers and bone resorption Lader C. S. et al. 1998 Endocrinology 139 3157 decreases proteoglycan synthesis and increases metalloprotease production by cultured chondrocytes Debrumfernandes A. J. et al. 1996 Br. J. Pharmacol. 188 1597 . Bone resorption in vivo caused by three periodontal pathogens is mediated in part by PGE causing tooth attachment loss and bone loss Zubery Y. et al. 1998 Infect. Immun. 66 4158 . Prior to these findings PGEwas proposed as a reliable molecular indicator of ongoing periodontal tissue destruction that might be used to predict future acute periodontal attachment loss Offenbacher S. et al. 1986 J. Periodontal Res. 21 101 .

Prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase cyclooxygenase COX catalyzes two reactions by which arachidonic acid is converted to PGH the common precursor of all prostanoids including PGE. To date two COX isoforms are known Smith W. L. et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 33157 . COX 1 appears to support the levels of prostanoid biosynthesis required for maintaining organ and tissue homeostasis Smith W. L. et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 33157 Vane J. R. et al. 1996 Scand. J. Rheumatol. 102 9 whereas COX 2 expression appears to be restricted in basal conditions within most tissues and is up regulated during inflammation or stress in a wide range of tissues O Banion M. K. et al. 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 4888 Seibert K. et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 12013 Needleman P. et al. 1997 J. Rheumatol. 24 6 . The finding that homogenates of inflamed periodontal tissues display an increased PGEsynthetic capacity when compared to homogenates from healthy tissues suggests an increased COX activity is associated with periodontal tissues ElAttar T. M. A. 1976 Prostaglandins 11 331 Albers H. K. et al. 1979 Dtsch. Zahnarztl. Z. 34 440 ElAttar T. M. A. et al. 1982 Prostaglandins Leukot. Med. 8 447 ElAttar T. M. A. et al. 1984 J. Periodontol. 55 536 . Moreover given the clearly deleterious actions of PGEon the integrity of tissues of the periodontal pocket both the potential involvement of the inducible COX isoform COX 2 in periodontal disease and potential role of novel lipid mediators are of interest in the pathogenesis of periodontal disease.

Lipoxins LX and aspirin triggered LX ATL are arachidonic acid derived bioactive lipids that are formed by interactions between individual lipoxygenases LO and appear to play an important role in downregulating neutrophil responses in inflammation Serhan C. N. 1997 Prostaglandins 53 107 . In the nanomolar range LXAand its 15R epimer 15 epi LXA triggered by aspirin each inhibit fMLP and LTB stimulated PMN adhesion and transmigration and hence represent potential counterregulatory signals operative in the resolution of inflammatory sites Serhan C. N. 1997 Prostaglandins 53 107 Serhan C. N. et al. 1996 FASEB J. 10 1147 Takano T. et al. 1997 J. Exp. Med. 185 1693 Serhan C. N. et al. 1995 Biochemistry 34 14609 . Like most autacoids and lipid mediators LX are rapidly generated act within a local microenvironment and are rapidly enzymatically inactivated. The roles of LX and ATL roles in vivo were studied by using metabolically stable LX and ATL analogs that were designed to resist rapid enzymatic inactivation and mimic the in vitro actions of naturally occurring LX and ATL Serhan C. N. et al. 1995 Biochemistry 34 14609 .

In addition to confirming the presence of LTBand PGE Tsai C. C. et al. 1998 J. Dentistry 26 97 it was shown for the first time that LXAis produced by activated neutrophils from LJP patients. It was also shown that LXAis present within the crevicular fluid from periodontitis patients with active disease. These results are the first demonstration that LJP peripheral blood neutrophils are in a primed state for LX generation. This in vivo priming for up regulated lipoxin profiles was also observed with neutrophils isolated from asthmatic patients Chavis C. et al. 1996 J. Exp. Med. 183 1633 and can be mimicked in vitro with cytokine priming of neutrophils from healthy donors Fiore S. et al. 1990 J. Exp. Med. 172 1451 .

It was recently reported that LXAand ATL analogs reduce leukocyte trafficking stimulated by TNF while concomitantly re orientating the cytokine chemokine axis towards an anti inflammatory profile Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 . LX ATL can thus protect host tissues via multilevel regulation of proinflammatory signals.

Periodontal disease has implications beyond the deleterious effects on oral tissues and structural integrity. Thus periodontitis represents a potential risk factor for increased morbidity or mortality for several systemic conditions including cardiovascular diseases pregnancy complications and diabetes Page R. C. 1998 Ann. Periodontol. 3 108 Garcia R. I. et al. 1998 Ann. Periodontol. 3 339 . Of great importance in this context is the finding that the systemic presence of up regulates the expression of COX 2 heart and lungs which is a marker of ongoing inflammation Herschman H. R. 1998 Trends Cardiovasc. Med. 8 145 .

The recognition of the endogenous and multifaceted anti inflammatory role of the lipoxins Serhan C. N. 1994 Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1212 1 Serhan C. N. 1997 Prostaglandins 53 107 combined with the findings that both lipoxin A4 and lipoxin B4 are rapidly deactivated by dehydrogenation Serhan C. N. et al. 1993 Biochemistry 32 6313 Maddox J. F. et al. 1998 FASEB J. 12 487 or oxidation Sumimoto H. et al. 1993 FEBS Lett. 315 205 Mizukami Y. et al. 1993 Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1168 87 Mizukami Y. et al. 1994 Eur. J. Biochem 224 959 led to the design and synthesis of a number of LX analogs with increased biostability Serhan C. N. et al. 1994 Biochemistry 34 14609 . Several LX analogs of this type were reported to have interesting biological properties and therapeutic potential Serhan C. N. et al. 1994 Biochemistry 34 14609 Takano T. et al. 1998 J. Clin. Invest. 101 819 . The use of lipoxin analogs for the treatment and prevention of periodontal disease as well as related systemic diseases however has not been described previously.

The present invention provides new lipoxin analogs compositions containing these analogs and methods of using these compounds and compositions for treating and preventing oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis and other forms of periodontal disease. In one embodiment the these new compounds are structural analogs of biostable lipoxin compounds such as lipoxin A lipoxin B or other related lipid mediators. Acceptable analogs include but are not limited to structural analogs of two series of lipoxins LXA series LXA 15 epi LXA and LXB series LXB 15 epi LXB .

The lipoxin analogs of the present invention contain four major components a the carboxyl component b the diol component c the tetraene component and d the alcohol component. Each of these components can possess a number of structural variations and still retain the key features necessary for lipoxin activity. Preferred compounds of the present invention generally belong either to the LXA series or the LXB series and can have structural modifications in one or more of the above components.

The compositions containing the lipoxin analogs can be in any form suitable for administration to a human or animal. Preferred forms of the compositions are those that can be administered topically to the oral cavity for example solutions suspensions dispersions ointments creams pastes powders such as tooth powders toothpastes gels lozenges salve chewing gum mouth sprays pastilles sachets mouthwashes aerosols tablets capsules and floss conjugated with LX analogs.

In another embodiment the present invention provides methods for treating and preventing oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis and other forms of periodontal disease with compositions containing COX 2 inhibitors. For example compositions containing such compounds as celecoxib rofecoxib and valdecoxib can be administered to a human or animal in manners similar to those for administration of the lipoxin analog containing compositions.

Further the invention provides methods for preventing systemic diseases beyond the oral cavity that are related to periodontal disease using the compositions containing lipoxin analogs COX 2 inhibitors or both. Such diseases include cardiovascular diseases pregnancy complications and diabetes.

Therefore it is an object of the present invention to provide lipoxin analogs such as LXA and LXB analogs having lipoxin activity.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide compositions comprising lipoxin analogs such as LXA and LXB analogs having lipoxin activity.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide compositions comprising lipoxin analogs and COX 2 inhibitors.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment and prevention of oral inflammation such as gingivitis periodontitis and other periodontal diseases.

It is another object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment and prevention of aphthous ulcers.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment and prevention of herpetic stomatitis.

It is an object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment and prevention of oral inflammation with compositions comprising lipoxin analogs.

It is another object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment and prevention of oral inflammation with compositions comprising COX 2 inhibitors.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment and prevention of oral inflammation with compositions comprising lipoxin analogs and COX 2 inhibitors.

It is an object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment of systemic diseases associated with periodontal disease.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases pregnancy complications and diabetes.

It is another object of the present invention to provide methods for the treatment of conditions associated with

Generally the present invention provides new lipoxin analogs compositions containing these analogs and methods of using these compounds and compositions for treating and preventing oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis aphthous ulcers herpetic stomatitis and other forms of periodontal disease. The invention also provides for methods of treating and preventing oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis aphthous ulcers herpetic stomatitis and other forms of periodontal disease with compositions containing COX 2 inhibitors. Further the invention provides methods for preventing systemic diseases beyond the oral cavity that are related to periodontal disease using the compositions containing lipoxin analogs COX 2 inhibitors or both.

In one embodiment the present invention provides new lipoxin compounds that are structural analogs of biostable lipoxin compounds such as lipoxin A lipoxin B or other related lipid mediator. The term structural analog as used herein means any molecule having the basic structural components of lipoxin compounds. That is compounds containing a carboxyl component a diol component a tetraene component and an alcohol component. These components can be any size and can be joined to one another in any manner. Additionally these components can contain various substituents or have some of their carbon atoms replaced for example by rings or heteroatoms. The compounds of the present invention retain lipoxin activity. However the compounds of the present invention do not undergo the typical metabolic deactivation of the parent lipoxin compounds. Thus the in vivo half life of the compounds of the present invention is significantly greater than the half life of the parent compounds. Acceptable analogs include but are not limited to structural analogs of two series of lipoxins LXA series LXA4 15 epi LXA4 and LXB series LXB4 15 epi LXB4 .

The lipoxin analogs of the present invention contain four major components a the carboxyl component b the diol component c the tetraene component and d the alcohol component. Each of these components can possess a number of structural variations and still retain the key features necessary for lipoxin activity. Preferred compounds of the present invention generally belong either to the LXA series or the LXB series and can have structural modifications in one or more of the above components. The following diagram provides the general formulas for lipoxin compounds of the LXA and LXB series.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the lipoxin analog a one of the following structures bearing the designated stereochemistry 

Ris selected from hydrogen straight branched cyclic saturated or unsaturated alkyl having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms 

R R Rmay be also connected to form one or more rings containing 3 to 20 carbon atoms 1 to 6 oxygen atoms or 1 to 6 nitrogen atoms.

A pair selected among the R Rgroups may also be replaced with a bond that generates a carbon carbon double or triple bond or a ring.

Examples of preferred compounds of the present invention are shown in Scheme 1. These examples are provided for purposes of illustration and in no way limit the scope of the present invention. Also contemplated as preferred compounds are the compounds shown in Scheme 1 wherein the carbon chains and rings shown in the structures additionally possess substituents selected from halo hydroxy lower alkoxy aryloxy amino alkylamino dialkylamino acylamino arylamino hydroxyamino alkoxyamino alkylthio arylthio carboxy carboxamido carboalkoxy aryl and heteroaryl.

The lipoxin analogs of the present invention can be manufactured using conventional methods for producing the parent lipoxin compounds. The reactions necessary to add various functional groups rings bonds and heteroatoms to the present compounds are well within the skill of the ordinary artisan.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compositions containing these new lipoxin analogs. The new lipoxin analogs of the present invention can be formulated into compositions that are suitable for administration to a human or animal. The compounds can be administered by any suitable means. In general suitable means of administration include but are not limited to topical transdermal oral sublingual nasal buccal rectal and parenteral e.g. intravenous subcutaneous or intramuscular routes. In addition the compositions can be incorporated into or covalently attached to polymers for topical use or for sustained delivery. The preferred method of administration is topical for example topical delivery to the oral cavity.

The compositions of the present invention can be in any form. These forms include but are not limited to solutions suspensions dispersions ointments creams pastes gels powders including tooth powders toothpastes lozenges salve chewing gum mouth sprays pastilles sachets mouthwashes aerosols tablets capsules transdermal patch suppositories and floss conjugated with LX analogs. Preferred forms of the compositions are those that can be administered topically to the oral cavity. Additionally the lipoxin analogs of the present invention can be conjugated with or covalently linked to polymers such as those that are conventionally used for the manufacture of dental floss. The lipoxin analogs can also be incorporated into polymers or biopolymers for the sustained release of the compounds. Further the lipoxin analogs can be incorporated into liposomes for sustained release delivery.

The compositions of the invention can include other components. These components include but are not limited to pharmaceutical carriers binders fillers flavorants and stabilizers. Additionally the compositions of the present invention can contain additional active ingredients. For example the compositions can contain COX 2 inhibitors in addition to the lipoxin analogs. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising COX 2 inhibitors in the absence of the lipoxin analogs.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides methods for the treatment and prevention oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis aphthous ulcers herpetic stomatitis and other forms of periodontal disease with compositions containing the lipoxin analogs of the invention. These methods comprise administering to the patient having such a disease a composition that comprises a lipoxin analog a COX 2 inhibitor or both a lipoxin analog and a COX 2 inhibitor.

The present inventors have identified for the first time by LC MS MS based analyses that eicosanoids are generated by peripheral blood neutrophils from periodontitis e.g. LJP patients. The present inventors have also found that LXA PGE and LTBare present in human CF. Experiments revealed that CF from localized juvenile periodontitis LJP patients contain prostaglandin PG Eand 5 lipoxygenase derived product leukotriene B and the biosynthesis interaction product lipoxin LX A. Neutrophils from peripheral blood of LJP patients but not from asymptomatic donors also generate LXAsuggesting a role for this immunomodulatory molecule in periodontal disease.

Further examination of an animal model of leukocyte trafficking and activation of an oral microbe clinically associated with periodontal disease showed that this microbe potently and rapidly 80 in vivo. These data indicate that this mediator PGE might originate in part from the infiltrating leukocytes.

Given the large number of PMN recruited at inflammatory lesions in periodontal disease the results described herein identify the PMN as a potential cellular primary target for therapeutic intervention. Metabolically stable lipoxin analogs LX ATL have the potential of blocking PMN infiltration as well as reducing COX 2 derived PGEpresent in gingival tissues. In this regard topical application of the novel lipoxin analogs of the present invention or of anti neutrophil agents as described by Takano Takano T. et al. 1998 101 819 Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 as well as new selective COX 2 inhibitors as described by Needleman P. et al. 1997 J. Rheumatol. 24 6 Herschman H. R. 1998 Trends Cardiovasc. Med. 8 145 Golden B. D. et al. 1999 Rheum. Dis. Clin. North Am. 25 359 may prove to be advantageous in this disease and associated pain since it could eliminate potential unwanted side effects particularly renal effects in the elderly associated with conventional methods of systemic delivery such as with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs.

The present inventors have determined that metabolically stable lipid mediators can be used to control host response in periodontal disease and related conditions. Studies confirmed that topical administration of metabolically stable analogs of LX or ATL within the pouch cavity of mice potently blocked induced neutrophil traffic in the dorsal air pouch model and lowered PGElevels within exudates.

Together the above findings identify PMN as an additional and potentially important source of PGEin periodontal tissues. Moreover they provide evidence for a novel protective role for LX in periodontitis limiting further PMN recruitment and PMN mediated tissue injury that can lead to loss of inflammatory barriers that prevent systemic tissue invasion of oral microbial pathogens.

Therefore the present invention provides methods for treating or preventing oral inflammation such as gingivitis periodontitis aphthous ulcers herpetic stomatitis and other periodontal diseases by administering compositions containing the novel lipoxin compounds of the present invention. The active ingredient can be delivered over a wide range of doses depending upon the method of delivery and the condition to be treated or prevented. In general active doses between about 1 10grams and 1 10grams are useful in the present invention. The compositions can be any of those described above and are preferably administered via topical delivery in the oral cavity.

The present invention also provides a method for the treatment or prevention of oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis aphthous ulcers herpetic stomatitis and other periodontal diseases by administering compositions containing COX 2 inhibitors. Examples of COX 2 inhibitors include but are not limited to celecoxib rofecoxib and valdecoxib.

Advantageously the present invention provides methods for treating or preventing oral inflammation including gingivitis periodontitis aphthous ulcers herpetic stomatitis and other periodontal diseases by administering compositions containing both lipoxin analogs of the present invention and a COX 2 inhibitor.

In view of their inhibitory impact on neutrophil recruitment and secondarily on PGElevels the lipoxin analogs of the present invention are beneficial to the host not only in the context of periodontitis but also in a number of diseases which involve excessive PMN responses that can lead to losses in inflammatory barriers and increase invasion of systemic microbes. Blood borne gives significant increases in the murine tissue levels of COX 2 mRNA associated with both heart and lungs supporting a potential role for this oral pathogen in the evolution of systemic events.

The concept that a local infection by may have a systemic impact on the status of the immune system is further substantiated by the finding that injected in the air pouch up regulates COX 2 mRNA levels in the lung associated tissues. In view of these results an effective treatment of periodontal conditions is likely to have a beneficial impact on the prognosis of a number of systemic diseases.

Thus the present invention is also related to methods for treating systemic diseases that are related to periodontal disease such as cardiovascular diseases pregnancy complications and diabetes. These methods comprise administering to the patient having such a disease a composition that comprises a lipoxin analog a COX 2 inhibitor or both a lipoxin analog and a COX 2 inhibitor.

The present invention is further illustrated and supported by the following examples. However these examples should in no way be considered to be further limit the scope of the invention. To the contrary one having ordinary skill in the art would readily understand that there are other embodiments modifications and equivalents of the present invention without departing from the spirit of the present invention and or the scope of the appended claims.

It was previously suggested that localized juvenile periodontitis LJP patients present altered lipid metabolism including the 15 LO pathway Noguchi Z. et al. 1988 Prostaglandins Leukotrienes and Essential Fatty Acids 33 137 . Therefore we evaluated the capacity of peripheral blood PMN from LJP patients and periodontal disease from age sex and race matched controls to produce 5 and 15 LO derived eicosanoids as well as the LO interaction product LXA.

Human polymorphonuclear leukocytes PMN from healthy volunteers and patients with juvenile periodontitis were obtained by gradient centrifugation of heparinized fresh venous blood using the method of B yum B yum A. 1968 Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. Suppl. 21 77 . Resulting granulocyte suspensions contained fewer than 0.2 monocytes as determined by esterase staining and viability was greater than 96 as determined by trypan blue dye exclusion.

Freshly isolated PMN 5 10cells were suspended in 0.5 ml Hank s buffered saline with 1.6 mM Ca and incubated with A23187 4 M at 37 C. for 20 minutes. The incubations were stopped with two volumes of cold methanol and kept at 20 C. overnight. Protein precipitates were pelleted by centrifugation and washed twice with methanol. The supernatants were pooled and the eicosanoids were extracted with Extract Clean solid phase cartridges 500 mg C Alltech Associates Inc. Deerfield Ill. using PGB M H m z 333 as an internal standard for extraction recovery calculations Takano T. et al. 1998 J. Clin. Invest. 101 819 . The methyl formate fractions were taken to dryness with a gentle stream of nitrogen and suspended in mobile phase for LC MS MS analyses. LC MS MS was performed employing an LCQ Finnigan MAT San Jose Calif. quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer system equipped with an electrospray ionization probe. Samples were injected into the HPLC component comprised of a SpectraSYSTEM P4000 Thermo Separation Products San Jose Calif. quaternary gradient pump a LUNA C18 2 150 2 mm 5 m column and a SpectraSYSTEM UV2000 Thermo Separation Products San Jose Calif. UV VIS absorbance detector. The column was eluted isocratically for 20 minutes with methanol water acetic acid 65 34.99 0.01 v v v at 0.2 ml min followed by a 20 minute linear gradient to methanol acetic acid 99.99 0.01 v v and into the electrospray probe. The spray voltage was set to 5 6 kV and the heated capillary to 250 C. Eicosanoids were quantitated by selected ion monitoring SIM for analyte molecular anions e.g. M H 351.5 for LXA4 and m z 335.5 for LTB . Product ion mass spectra MS MS were also acquired for definitive identification of the compounds.

Gingival CF from juvenile periodontitis patients was collected on periostrips Ebersole J. L. et al. 1980 J. Periodontal Res. 15 621 . The periostrips were placed in 50 l of phosphate buffered saline with 20 Tween 20 and LXA LTB and PGEwere quantitated by specific ELISA analyses Neogen Corporation Lexington Ky. . As determined by LC MS MS recoveries of known amounts of LXA LTB and d LTBfrom periostrips were linear over a 100 pg to 10 ng range with 82.7 r 0.996 85.6 r 0.999 and 72.7 r 0.996 recovery respectively.

PMN from both healthy donors and LJP patients incubated with arachidonic acid produced both 5 and 15 HETE from exogenous substrate which were identified by LC MS MS and chiral phase HPLC analyses indicating that the alcohol at carbon 15 position of 15 HETE was in the S configuration suggesting involvement of a 15 lipoxygenase. On the other hand activated PMN produced LTBand its omega oxidation metabolite 20 OH LTB in addition to 5 and 15 HETE generated from endogenous sources of arachidonic acid Table 1 .

Activated PMN from LJP patients but not from controls namely asymptomatic individuals without evidence of clinically documented periodontal disease also generated LXA . The presence of a number of enzymes involved in the production of lipid mediators including 5 12 15 LO COX 1 and COX 2 in leukocytes from periodontitic patients was also confirmed by RT PCR. CF from periodontal disease specifically patients with LJP were analyzed for the presence of key eicosanoids including LXA PGEand LTBfrom each major class of eicosanoid mediators. LXAwas also present in the crevicular fluid of patients Table 2 suggesting a potential role for this immunomodulatory molecule Serhan C. N. 1997 Prostaglandins 53 107 in the local inflammatory sequelae observed within the periodontium of patients with periodontal diseases. Moreover both the proinflammatory COX and the 5 LO derived eicosanoids PGEand LTBrespectively were also demonstrated in the CF Tsai C. C. et al. 1998 J. Dentistry 26 97 .

PMN recruitment to gingival sites and high PGElevels are associated with periodontal disease Offenbacher S. et al. 1984 J. Periodontal Res. 19 1 Noguchi Z. et al. 1988 Prostaglandins Leukotrienes and Essential Fatty Acids 33 137 . We therefore sought to determine the impact that may have in vivo on leukocyte trafficking and COX 2 expression. To this end we used a murine air pouch model to assess leukocyte infiltration and activation.

Six to eight week old male BALB c mice were obtained from Taconic Farms Germantown N.Y. . Air pouches were raised on the dorsum by s.c. injection of 3 ml of sterile air on day 0 and day 3 and all experiments were carried out on day 6 Sin Y. M. et al. 1986 Ann. Rheum. Dis. 45 873 . Individual air pouches one per mouse were injected with either vehicle alone 0.1 ethanol with 10 g 15 R S methyl LXA me or with 10 g 15 epi 16 phenoxy LXA me followed by 500 l of sterile PBS or 10cells of strain A7436 OD0.9 1.0 originally obtained from the CF of a patient diagnosed with periodontitis. Mice were sacrificed 4 hr post injection and individual air pouches were lavaged three times with sterile PBS 3 ml for each lavage Sin Y. M. et al. 1986 Ann. Rheum. Dis. 45 873 Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 . The exudates were centrifuged at 2000 rpm 5 min and supernatants were taken and stored at 20 C. Cell pellets were suspended in PBS 200 l for enumeration by light microscopy and 50 l of each cell suspension were mixed with 150 l 30 BSA and then centrifuged onto microscope slides at 500 RPM for 5 min using a cytospin centrifuge air dried and stained with Giemsa Wright to identify individual cell type. Air pouch exudates were assessed for PGEusing an enzyme immunoassay EIA kit Cayman Chemical Co. Ann Arbor Mich. cross reactivities in the PGEEIA kit were 

In these studies elicited a massive leukocyte infiltration into the air pouches. Approximately 10 million leukocytes were enumerated in the injected air pouch exudates . This cell infiltration represents approximately three times more leukocytes than in air pouches injected with murine TNF Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 . These inflammatory exudates were comprised predominantly of neutrophilic infiltrate that represented 80 85 of the total leukocytes recruited at 4 h. The remainder of the recruited leukocytes were mononuclear cell infiltrate 15 20 consistent with earlier findings Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 yet suggesting that stimulates greater numbers of PMN in this model than murine TNF . Also in the present experiments relatively few leukocytes were present in PBS injected air pouch lavages. These results showed that represents a potent stimulus for the recruitment of leukocytes predominantly neutrophil infiltrate within a localized site or cavity i.e. dorsal pouch .

It is well known that COX 2 is induced in human PMN by a number of inflammatory mediators including Pouliot M. et al. 1998 FASEB J. 12 1109 . We determined that also directly stimulates COX 2 expression in PMN freshly isolated from peripheral blood.

Total RNA isolation and hybridization were performed essentially as in Pouliot M. et al. 1998 FASEB J. 12 1109. Briefly filters were hybridized with human or mouse COX 2 cDNA probes which were synthesized by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR . The primers used were 5 GCT GAC TAT GGC TAC AAA AGC TGG 3 SEQ ID NO. 1 and 5 ATG CTC AGG GAC TTG AGG AGG GTA 3 SEQ ID NO. 2 for human COX 2 5 AAC TCC CAT GGG TGT GAA GGG A 3 SEQ ID NO. 3 and 5 CCA AAG ATA GCA TCT GGA CGA G 3 SEQ ID NO. 4 for mouse COX 2. Integrity of the RNA and equal loading on agarose formaldehyde gels were verified by hybridization with glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH . The observed COX 2 mRNA band was approximately 4.6 kb. Autoradiograms were scanned using an Epson 636 scanner Epson America . For RT PCR analyses total RNA was extracted by homogenizing tissues in Trizol Gibco BRL Grand Island N.Y. according to the manufacturer s instructions. One g of total RNA was used in each reaction using Titan One tube RT PCR Roche Molecular Biochemicals Indianapolis In. . Reverse transcription RT and polymerase chain reaction PCR were sequentially performed according to the following profile 50 C. for 30 min for RT then 94 C. for 30 s 60 C. for 30 s 72 C. for 1 min repeated 35 times for PCR followed by a final extension at 72 C. for 10 min. Primers used for mouse COX 2 were identical to those mentioned above and the expected PCR product was 1.0 kb in length. For the detection of in mouse tissues primers specific for 16S ribosomal RNA of the bacteria Genbank accession number L16492 were utilized 5 GGC AGG CGG AAT TCG TGG TGT A 3 SEQ ID NO. 5 and 5 GAT GTA AGG GCC GTG CTG ATT TGA 3 SEQ ID NO. 6 . PCR products both for ribosomal RNA and mouse GAPDH had an expected length of 0.5 kb. Samples were migrated on 1 agarose gel containing ethidium bromide and photographs of the gels were taken under UV illumination. All densitometry analyses were performed using the National Institute of Health Image program which can be found at the following web site http rsb.info.nih.gov and is incorporated by reference herein.

Indeed increased the levels of COX 2 mRNA in a time dependent fashion when compared to that from vehicle treated PMN . An increase was first observed at 1 hr and COX 2 mRNA levels further increased in presence of the bacteria compared to vehicle alone for up to 3 hr. The expression of COX 2 in leukocytes which migrated into the air pouch cavity as described in Example 2 was also determined. As assessed by northern blot COX 2 expression was up regulated in these activated leukocytes see insert . These results indicated that oral pathogens associated with periodontal diseases such as up regulate COX 2 expression in human PMN and in infiltrating leukocytes. These results provide direct support for the hypothesis that neutrophils which constitute the first and most numerous inflammatory cell type migrating to local gingival tissues in periodontal disease may constitute a previously unappreciated source of COX 2 derived eicosanoids including PGE in the periodontium.

In view of the finding that LXAand aspirin triggered LX LX ATL analogs reduce leukocyte trafficking stimulated by TNF in the murine air pouch Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 and because PMN are the most abundant inflammatory cells recruited to pathogen infected gingival sites in periodontal disease we evaluated the impact of the metabolically stable LX ATL analogs 15 R S methyl LXAand 16 phenoxy LXAon the recruitment of leukocytes into murine air pouches by

Air pouches see Example 2 were injected either with vehicle with 15 R S methyl LXA 10 g pouch or with 16 phenoxy LXA 10 g pouch then injected with viable as in . In these experiments LX ATL analogs dramatically reduced the recruitment of leukocytes into the air pouches exudate. Both analogs were essentially equipotent inhibitors of leukocyte infiltration decreasing leukocytes within the exudates by up to 75 with as little as 10 g application .

Since PGEis associated with loss of attachment and bone loss in periodontal disease Offenbacher S. et al. 1992 J. Periodontal Res. 27 207 we determined PGElevels in the air pouch exudates. Air pouches injected with see Example 2 contained elevated PGElevels compared to those of vehicle injected air pouches . stimulated the production of nanogram levels of PGEin the exudates which paralleled the up regulated expression of COX 2 in infiltrating leukocytes insert . The ATL analog 15 R S methyl LXA inhibited PGEproduction generated in response to the oral pathogen decreasing PGElevels in the exudates by as much as 75 . This inhibition in PGElevels paralleled the decrement in leukocytes observed within the exudate . Also the expression of COX 2 was evaluated in exudate leukocytes. 15 R S methyl LXAwithin the air pouch decreased the overall expression of COX 2 in exudates insert . These results indicate that induces the in vivo expression of COX 2 within infiltrating leukocytes as well as the production of PGE. Moreover they indicate that LX ATL are potent regulators of PGEproduction in air pouch exudates as a consequence of inhibiting leukocyte transmigration and reducing COX 2 mRNA levels.

Given the large number of PMN recruited at inflammatory lesions in periodontal disease these results identify the PMN as a potential cellular primary target for therapeutic intervention. LX ATL have the potential of blocking PMN infiltration as well as reducing COX 2 derived PGEpresent in gingival tissues.

These findings support the concept that LXA which has an immunomodulatory action may be involved in the regulation of the local acute inflammatory responses in periodontal disease. Moreover these results indicate that LX ATL analogs which are topically active Takano T. et al. 1997 J. Exp. Med. 185 1693 are potent inhibitors of elicited leukocyte migration towards a site of infection. These analogs also concomitantly reduce the overall levels of COX 2 mRNA associated with inflammatory exudates which was accompanied by a decreased production of PGE. Overall these results provide evidence for a potential role for lipoxins in the host defense mechanisms evoked by . Based on these findings it can also be expected that lipoxin analogs would have useful for the treatment and prevention of periodontal disease.

Because COX 2 expression is up regulated in acute and chronic inflammatory situations Herschman H. R. 1998 Trends Cardiovasc. Med. 8 145 we determined the systemic impact that may have by evaluating selected organ associated levels of COX 2 mRNA. It should be noted that COX 2 was initially identified as an early response gene Herschman H. R. et al. 1993 J. Lipid Mediat. 6 89 .

A suspension of or an equivalent volume of sterile PBS was injected in the orbital plexus of the mice. After 4 hr animals were sacrificed and COX 2 mRNA levels were determined in the heart and lungs. Intravenous injection of caused a significant increase in the levels of COX 2 mRNA associated with the heart and lungs . specific 16S ribosomal RNA Example 3 was readily observed in the heart and lungs from mice injected with the oral pathogen and was absent in tissue samples from the PBS injected animals insert .

These findings show that the systemic presence of up regulates expression of COX 2 heart and lungs a marker of ongoing inflammation Herschman H. R. 1998 Trends Cardiovasc. Med. 8 145 . The concept that a local infection by may have a systemic impact on the status of the immune system was further substantiated by results obtained in pilot studies where injected in the air pouch up regulated COX 2 mRNA levels in the lung associated tissues.

In view of these results an effective treatment of periodontal conditions is likely to have a beneficial impact on the prognosis of a number of systemic diseases. LXAand ATL analogs reduce leukocyte trafficking stimulated by TNF while concomitantly re orientating the cytokine chemokine axis towards an anti inflammatory profile Hachicha M. et al. 1999 J. Exp. Med. 189 1923 . LX ATL can thus protect host tissues via multilevel regulation of proinflammatory signals. In view of their inhibitory impact on neutrophil recruitment and secondarily on PGElevels LX ATL may be beneficial to the host not only in the context of periodontitis but also in a number of diseases which involve excessive PMN responses that can lead to losses in inflammatory barriers and increase invasion of systemic microbes.

These results demonstrate the capacity of to up regulate COX 2 expression systemically in a murine model supporting a potential role for this oral pathogen in the evolution of systemic events. Indeed evidence is accumulating to support the notion that periodontal disease may affect and worsen systemic diseases such as coronary heart disease preterm labor and diabetes mellitus Page R. C. 1998 Ann. Periodontol. 3 108 and that brushing or trauma to an inflamed gingival site can lead to septicemia Silver J. G. et al. 1979 J. Clin. Priodontol. 6 33 .

Therefore the present invention by controlling PMN responses in periodontitis also offers a novel approach for the treatment and prevention of a variety of systemic diseases.

In accordance with 37 CFR 1.52 e 5 a Sequence Listing in the form of a text file entitled Sequence Listing.txt created on Aug. 7 2009 and 5 kilobytes is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

