---

title: Antenna array and method for fabrication of antenna array
abstract: A method for fabricating a radar array assembly comprises providing a mounting plate including first mounting holes and second mounting holes, at least some of the second mounting holes being between at least some of the first mounting holes. Grooved posts having longitudinal grooves are installed within the first mounting holes, and panel sections of antenna elements are disposed within the longitudinal grooves of adjacent installed grooved posts. Each of the antenna elements further includes a connector section that is disposed within the second mounting holes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09472860&OS=09472860&RS=09472860
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09472860
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120309
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract Grant N00173 09 C 2013 for the U.S. Department of the Navy. The United States Government may have certain rights in this invention.

As the frequency of operation of radar antennas increases the spacing between the radiating elements that make up the aperture becomes smaller. For example the spacing may be less than 1.0 cm 0.400 center to center at 16 GHz Ku band . In addition effective phased array radars can have 10 000 or more radiating elements. The radiating elements in these millimeter radar assemblies have critical alignment requirements. They require isolation between adjacent radiating elements and excellent grounding. In addition the radiating elements in millimeter radar assemblies require thermal management due to their high power generation in small effective areas.

Previous processes formed the mechanical attachment between adjacent radiating elements in a phased array aperture with epoxy joints and machined features in soft substrates such as Duroid . Materials such as polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE and Duroid PTFE glass or PTFE ceramic composites exhibit poor dimensional stability cold flow characteristics and deformation under cutting stresses. Unlike metals features machined in these materials cannot be relied upon to provide the positional alignment required in a high wide band phased array aperture. Therefore to achieve element to element alignment and orientation radiating elements were assembled using complicated tooling that required tedious fabrication procedures.

For example element to element alignment and orientation of individual radiating elements on individual substrates are often performed using a rake tool and a joe block. The rake is used to establish a predetermined spacing between cells in the array and the individual substrates are then positioned around the joe block to establish the correct orientation and location of the substrates. The array is built up by adding individual radiating elements. In the case of stripline circuit elements assembled in this manner plated through holes vias were used for isolation between adjacent radiating elements. This type of assembly can also have spurious grounds due to uneven or decaying epoxy joints.

Another previous process used screws to fasten radiating elements to a substrate. However because the size between the antenna elements of millimeter antennas is so small a screwed in approach will not work because even the smallest screws are too large for use in a millimeter antenna array.

An improved radar array assembly radar array assembly posts and method for fabricating a radar array assembly are disclosed. The method and apparatus provide a strong thermal heat path a transfer of tight tolerances from the duroid antenna panels to the metal posts of the radar array assembly and includes a simplified design that is repeatable and scalable to other Vivaldi antenna designs at other frequencies. The metal posts provide a strong thermal heat path from the antenna elements to the mounting face plate and allow for a design that does not require selective tin lead soldering of adjacent duroid elements which makes the array easier to produce. The metal posts may be easily customized for different width antenna elements and the metal posts can be easily altered for varying lattice spacing. The metal posts also become self aligned as antenna elements are installed within the grooves of the posts. Element height differences in the posts and panels may be accounted for in the fabrication process using a simple heavy plate and gasket configuration. The mounting plate holes may easily be altered for different size antenna elements and mounting posts.

A method for fabricating a radar array assembly is disclosed comprising the steps of a providing a mounting plate including first mounting holes and second mounting holes at least some of the second mounting holes being between at least some of the first mounting holes b installing grooved posts having longitudinal grooves within the first mounting holes and c disposing panel sections of antenna elements within the longitudinal grooves of adjacent installed grooved posts each of the antenna elements further including a connector section that is disposed within the second mounting holes. The first and second mounting holes may be counterbored. The longitudinal grooves are within a first section of the grooved posts the grooved posts may further comprise a shaft section and installing the grooved posts in the first mounting holes may further comprise installing the shaft section of each of the grooved posts in the first mounting holes. The method may further comprise rotating the grooved posts so that the grooves of adjacent grooved posts are aligned to receive one of the panel sections of one of the antenna elements. The method may also further comprise pre tinning portions of the mounting plate and the grooved posts with a metal.

The method for fabricating a radar array assembly may also comprise heating the radar array assembly to reflow the metal thereby forming first conductive joints between the grooved posts and the first mounting holes second conductive joints between the antenna elements connector sections and the second mounting holes and third conductive joints between the grooved posts and the panel sections of the antenna elements. The method may further comprise before heating the radar array assembly providing additional solder to the radar array assembly for reflow on the first conductive joints the second conductive joints or the third conductive joints. The method may also further comprise before heating the radar array assembly to reflow the metal disposing a heavy metal plate on top of the grooved posts and the antenna elements thereby applying pressure to the top of each of the grooved posts and the antenna elements to ensure proper seating of each of the grooved posts and the antenna elements. The heavy metal plate may include heavy plate holes coincident with a top of each of the grooved posts the heavy plate holes containing solder that flows down onto the top of each of the grooved posts during heating of the radar array assembly. The method may also further comprise after heating the radar array assembly applying additional solder to the grooved posts to supplement the first conductive joints the second conductive joints and the third conductive joints.

A method for fabricating a millimeter radar array assembly may comprise the steps of a providing a mounting plate b drilling staggered first cylindrical mounting holes and second cylindrical mounting holes in the mounting plate c disposing posts having longitudinal grooves within the first cylindrical mounting holes and d installing antenna elements between adjacent posts by disposing panel sections of the antenna elements within the longitudinal grooves of the adjacent installed posts and disposing cylindrical antenna base sections of the antenna elements within the second cylindrical mounting holes. The posts may further comprise a cylindrical post base section and disposing the posts in the first cylindrical mounting holes may comprise disposing the cylindrical post base section of each of the posts in the first cylindrical mounting holes. The method may further comprise rotating the posts so that the longitudinal grooves of adjacent posts are aligned to receive one of the panel sections of one of the antenna elements. The method may also further comprise pre tinning portions of the mounting plate and the posts with a metal.

The method for fabricating a millimeter radar array assembly may comprise heating the radar array assembly to reflow the metal thereby forming first conductive joints between the posts and the first mounting holes second conductive joints between the cylindrical antenna base sections and the second cylindrical mounting holes and third conductive joints between the posts and the panel sections of the antenna elements. The method may further comprise before heating the radar array assembly providing additional solder to the radar array assembly for reflow on the first conductive joints the second conductive joints or the third conductive joints. The method may also further comprise before heating the radar array assembly to reflow the metal disposing a heavy metal plate on top of the posts and on top of the antenna elements thereby applying pressure to the top of each of the posts and to the top of each of the antenna elements to ensure proper seating of each of the posts and antenna elements. The heavy metal plate may include heavy plate holes coincident with a top of each of the posts the heavy plate holes containing solder that flows down onto the top of each of the posts during heating of the radar array assembly. The method may also further comprise after heating the radar array assembly applying additional solder to the posts to supplement the first conductive joints the second conductive joints or the third conductive joints.

A radar array assembly may comprise a mounting plate including first mounting holes and second mounting holes at least some of the second mounting holes being between the first mounting holes grooved posts comprising a first section having a generally square cross section and longitudinal grooves on each side and a shaft section the shaft section of each of the grooved posts being affixed within the first mounting holes antenna elements having a panel section and a cylindrical connector base the panel section of each of the antenna elements being affixed within the grooves of adjacent installed grooved posts and the cylindrical connector base of each of the antenna elements being affixed within the second mounting holes. The mounting plate may comprise a gold plated copper plate with tin lead plating on areas between the first mounting holes and the second mounting holes. The grooved posts may comprise tin lead plating over gold over beryllium copper. Each of the panel sections may comprise a dielectric board defining a conductive horn and a stripline feed structure said stripline feed structure being electrically connected to the conductive horn and the cylindrical connector base of each of the panel sections. The grooved posts may be affixed within the first mounting holes with a metal the edge of the antenna elements may be affixed to the grooves with a metal and the cylindrical connector bases may be affixed within the second mounting holes with a metal. The metal may be one of a group consisting of solder and iridium.

A mounting post for a millimeter antenna array comprises an upper section having lengthwise grooves sized to accept an edge of an antenna element panel and a lower shaft section adjacent to the upper section and sized to closely fit within a mounting plate hole. The upper section may have four sides and a lengthwise groove centered on each of the four sides. The lower shaft section may be cylindrical and the mounting post may be comprised of tin lead plating over gold over beryllium copper.

This description of the preferred embodiments is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description of this invention. In the description relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and do not require that the apparatus be constructed or operated in a particular orientation. Terms concerning attachments coupling and the like such as connected and interconnected refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise.

The shaft section is shaped to be orthogonally inserted into a cylindrical mounting hole in the ground plane and has a diameter that enables the shaft to have a close fit into the mounting hole. As noted the grooved post should be rotatable to align the grooves of adjacent posts so that the panel section of an antenna element may be installed into the grooves so the fit of the shaft section in the mounting hole should permit this rotation.

In some embodiments the grooved post may be made of a single piece of metal formed on a machine such as a CNC machine or wire plunge EDM. The grooved post may be solid i.e. not hollow which prevents microwaves from jumping across between adjacent radiating elements. In other embodiments the grooved post may be made of separate pieces such as a separate first section and shaft and in other embodiments the shaft section may be hollow. In addition in some embodiments the shaft may be tapered. A tapered shaft is advantageous in that it makes the grooved post self centering within the mounting hole in the ground plane even if there is an imperfection in the mounting hole into which the shaft fits. The taper is not required and the shaft may be cylindrical in other embodiments. In either embodiment the cylindrical shape whether tapered or not allows the grooved post to be rotated within the cylindrical mounting hole in the ground plane. As will be understood the grooved posts may be rotated so that the grooves of adjacent grooved posts are aligned to receive the panel section of an antenna element. As will also be understood once a grooved post has been rotated so that one groove is aligned with the groove of an adjacent grooved post that grooved posts is also aligned for any antenna elements that may be installed within the other 3 grooves of that grooved posts. Thus alignment of an individual grooved post is only required once.

In an embodiment the grooves have flat side walls. This allows a solder or conductive adhesive joint to run the full length of the side walls. Alternatively it is possible for the side surface of the grooves to be sloped downward in which case the panels of the antenna to be installed within the grooves may be tapered so that the edges or ends of the panel pair with the grooves. It is also possible for the side surface of the grooves to have features e.g. ridges grooves pits or the like not shown so that the contact surface between the grooved post and the antenna elements is not a completely flat surface.

The grooved post may be made from of a solderable material e.g. copper or a chromium copper alloy or the grooved post may be tin plated with a metal such as solder or an iridium plating. The grooved post in this example is made of tin lead plating over gold over copper beryllium for strength which further enables each grooved post to act as a heat path to transfer heat from the antenna elements to the mounting plate. The copper beryllium embodiment adds beryllium to copper for strength to prevent bending of the posts. Solder plating on all surfaces provides solder volume and protects the grooved post from the environment. When the grooved posts and antenna elements are assembled the solder can be reflowed to form secure physical and electrical connections among the grooved posts and antenna elements. As will be understood the edges or ends of the antenna elements are in electrical and physical connection with the grooves in which they are installed. The solder may be tin lead solder or other solder compositions or iridium may be used. In alternative embodiments conductive adhesive e.g. conductive epoxy may be used to form secure physical and electrical connections among the grooved posts and antenna elements. In still other embodiments solder can be applied in situ after assembly of the grooved posts and antenna elements onto the ground plane. The grooved post is advantageous when used in a reflow process and provides the junction for a solder joint between radiating elements. It provides a well defined mechanical attachment to the groundplane and hence each grooved post forms a structural node in the assembly. It provides excellent element to element isolation and grounding. The grooved post design also allows for the use of close tolerances on the posts which is important because it is not currently possible to use tolerances that are as close in the cutting of the duroid elements. The exemplary grooved post forms a reliable mechanical solder attachment for orthogonally placed soft substrate radiating elements in wide band phased array radar apertures.

As shown in the panel section of the antenna element has a radiating element a conductive horn . The horn can be formed in the substrate by any suitable circuit fabrication process such as etching or machining the metal ground layers. Each radiating element horn has a connector for connecting the element to the transmit receive distribution network not shown . An exemplary connector is a Gilbert G3PO or G4PO male connector manufactured by the Corning Gilbert Corporation of Glendale Ariz. which can be used to connect the center stripline circuit between the two layers of substrate directly to a coaxial cable. A resonating cavity and or filter may be coupled between the connector and the radiating element horn . Each radiating element has a plurality of plated through holes for matching. Additional plated through holes along the edge of the horn form the sides of the horn and are appropriately spaced for the frequency band of interest. Exemplary through holes may be 0.5 mm 0.02 in diameter. One of ordinary skill can select the size and spacing of the plated through holes for the operating frequency to be used. This exemplary antenna element is only an example. One of ordinary skill can readily select an appropriate antenna element for a particular application.

The thickness of panel section is coordinated with the width of longitudinal grooves of the grooved posts to enable the panel section to fit within the groove . As noted a close fit between the groove and panel section is desirable and a fit that requires excessive force to install the panel section with the grooves is not desirable. As shown in areas on panel section are in physical contact with groove when the panel section is installed. Areas also provide an electrical connection between the panel section and the adjacent grooved post . As will be understood a close fit between the panel and the groove within which the panel sits will achieve a better electrical connection although a fit that makes it difficult to install the panel is not desirable. As will also be understood if the groove is deeper areas will be wider if the panel is sized to account for the depth thus providing a better electrical connection. Also a deeper groove may allow for larger tolerances in the cutting of the panel sections which is desirable because under currently technology the tolerances in the cutting of the panel sections are not as small as the tolerances used for the posts. In an embodiment the panel width is selected so that the panel fits closely within groove without contacting face of the groove. Such sizing will allow for tolerances that encompass panels that are slightly larger than specified. Areas on panel section represent the bottom edge of the panel section. When panel section is installed between adjacent grooved posts within antenna element holes areas make contact with the ground plane and become adhered to the ground plane during the reflow process.

In an embodiment the panel section of the antenna elements may have be formed with a break off mounting tab on the top of each panel as shown in . The mounting tab is used to position the antenna element within the grooves of adjacent grooved posts and the mounting tab is formed using known methods so that it can be easily snapped off the top of the antenna elements after positioning is complete. As will be understood the mounting tabs may have tooling holes as needed by the particular manufacturing equipment being used.

The diameter of connector shown in is coordinated with the size of the cylindrical mounting holes in the ground plane . The connector is shaped to be orthogonally inserted into a mounting hole in the ground plane and has a diameter that enables the connector to have a close fit into the mounting hole. In an embodiment the connector may be tapered so that it easily fits into the mounting hole even if there is an imperfection in the mounting hole.

The mounting plate should be electrically conductive so it may be made from metal such as copper. The copper or other metal may also be gold or nickel plated so the tin lead solder has a surface to adhere to and creates a non corrosive barrier. The areas of the mounting plate between the grooved post mounting holes and antenna element mounting holes may be tin lead plated with a metal and then a flowing process may be used that will cause the adjacent tin lead solder to flow down into the holes to affix the grooved posts and antenna elements to the mounting plate. That is in an embodiment there is no tin lead solder in the holes themselves just in the areas adjacent to the holes and during the reflow process tin solder may wick down into the mounting holes and adhere the antenna connectors or posts to the mounting holes. As shown in the antenna element mounting holes are larger in diameter than the grooved post mounting holes because the antenna element mounting holes accommodate a connector that includes electrical connections. Of course an alternative embodiment in which the connector is smaller in diameter may be possible and the holes in the mounting plate will be drilled accordingly. In an embodiment either or both the post and antenna element mounting holes may be counterbored. The counterboring better allows the solder to wick down into the mounting holes and may help guide reflowed solder to enter the holes rather than spread out on the mounting plate. In addition as will be understood the spacing of the grooved post mounting holes and antenna element mounting holes can be customized to accommodate different width antenna panels and to vary lattice spacing. Thus the mounting plate grooved post and antenna element design is simple scalable and flexible.

The radar array aperture disclosed in may be fabricated by a providing a mounting plate including grooved post first mounting holes and antenna element connector second mounting holes at least some of the connector mounting holes being between the grooved post mounting holes b installing grooved posts within the grooved post mounting holes and c sliding panel sections of antenna elements within the grooves of adjacent installed grooved posts each of the antenna elements further including a connector section that is disposed within the connector mounting holes.

The fabrication method may also comprise pre tinning the areas between the grooved post mounting holes and the antenna element connector mounting holes of the mounting plate and the grooved posts before the grooved posts and antenna elements are installed within the mounting plate. The metal may be one of the group consisting of solder and iridium. And then after the grooved posts and antenna elements are installed the entire assembly may be heated to reflow the metal thereby forming conductive joints between the grooved posts and the grooved post mounting holes and between the antenna element connector and the connector mounting holes and also thereby forming conductive joints between the grooved posts and the edges or ends or the panel sections of the antenna elements.

In an embodiment a heavy metal plate with may be placed upon the installed grooved posts and antenna elements before reflowing as shown in . The plate will apply pressure to the tops of the grooved posts so that they are firmly installed in the grooved post mounting holes. The plate may also apply pressure to the tops of the antenna elements so that they are firmly installed in the antenna element mounting holes. A silicon layer not shown may be placed between the plate and the tops of the grooved posts to ensure that the plate applies pressure to the top of each of the grooved posts and the top of the antenna elements when undesirable uneven element heights are observed. In another embodiment the heavy metal plate may have holes containing solder the holes being spaced to coincide with the tops of the grooved posts. Then when the entire assembly is heated the solder in the holes will flow down and provide additional solder onto the grooved posts which will help to ensure a good connection between the grooved posts and the antenna elements and the grooved posts and the mounting plate. In this embodiment a silicon layer may be used to ensure that the plate applies pressure to the top of each of the grooved posts and or the tops of the antenna elements. As will be understood if a silicon layer is used it will have holes that coincide with the holes in the plate so that the silicon doesn t block the solder from flowing from the holes in the plate to the grooved posts. Other known methods of supplementing the solder available for reflow on the grooved posts e.g. placing additional solder within pockets or cut outs in the grooved posts may also be used.

The grooves on the grooved posts may run lengthwise longitudinally within a first section of the grooved posts that have a generally square cross section. In addition the grooved posts may further comprise a shaft section and installing the grooved posts in the first mounting holes further comprises installing the shaft section of each of the grooved posts in the first mounting holes. Installing the shaft section of each of the grooved posts may also comprise rotating the grooved posts so that the grooves of adjacent grooved posts are aligned to receive the panel section of an antenna element.

Although the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the invention which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the invention.

