---

title: Structural assembly for cold plate cooling
abstract: A device including a structural member having a heat spreader and an electronic device mounted directly to a first surface of the heat spreader of the structural member. The device also includes a cold plate mounted directly to the first surface of the heat spreader of the structural member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08804337&OS=08804337&RS=08804337
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Space Systems International, Inc.
number: 08804337
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120326
---
The invention described herein was made with the support of the United States government under contract number NNJ06TA25C awarded by NASA. The government has certain rights to this invention.

The present disclosure relates to cooling for electronic devices and more specifically to a structural assembly including a thermal heat spreader for cold plate cooling.

Generally speaking electronic devices generate heat which can damage the electronic devices if the heat is not dissipated properly. Various cooling technologies have been developed to cool electronic devices including but not limited to recirculating chillers liquid to liquid cooling systems and ambient cooling systems.

Effectively cooling electronic devices is more difficult in environments that have either spatial and or energy constraints such as aerospace aeronautic or similar applications. Currently electronic devices used in these types of applications are cooled by mounting the electronic devices to a structural cold plate assembly that uses liquid cooling to remove the heat from the electronic devices. A structural cold plate assembly typically includes a structural member and at least one cold plate attached to the structural member and located directly between the structural member and the electronic device it is cooling. Currently the location shape and size of the cold plate are determined by the placement and dimensions of the electronic device the cold plate is cooling. By requiring the cold plate to be located between the structural member and the electronic device the overall thickness of the structural cold plate assembly is increased.

In an embodiment a device is provided that includes a structural member having a heat spreader and an electronic device mounted directly to the heat spreader of the structural member. The device also includes a cold plate mounted directly to the heat spreader of the structural member.

In another embodiment a device is provided that includes a structural member having a honeycomb structural panel and a first and second heat spreaders affixed to opposing sides of the honeycomb structural panel. The device also includes an electronic device mounted directly to the first heat spreader and a cold plate mounted directly to a same side of the first heat spreader as the electrical device.

In yet another embodiment a device is provided that includes a structural member having a first and second heat spreaders. The structural member also includes a first fin layer and a second fin layer disposed between the first and second heat spreaders wherein one or more fins of the first fin layer are oriented in a direction normal to an orientation of one or more fins of the second fin layer. The device also includes an electronic device mounted directly to the first heat spreader and a cold plate mounted directly to the first heat spreader of the structural member.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present disclosure. Other embodiments and aspects of the disclosure are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed disclosure. For a better understanding of the disclosure with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

Referring to a structural assembly for cold plate cooling in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure is shown. The structural assembly includes a structural member having a heat spreader in thermal contact with at least one of the outer surfaces of the structural member . The structural assembly also includes one or more electronic devices mounted directly to the heat spreader of the structural member . The structural assembly further includes at least one cold plate mounted directly to the heat spreader of the structural member . In one embodiment the cold plate may be a liquid cooled cold plate and structural assembly may include one or more tubes or pipes for exchanging the fluid in the cold plate .

In exemplary embodiments the heat spreader is configured to have a higher lateral thermal conductivity i.e. thermal conductivity across the surface of the heat spreader than transverse thermal conductivity i.e. thermal conductivity through the thickness of the heat spreader . Accordingly the heat spreader is configured to efficiently transfer heat from the electronic devices to the cold plates . In one embodiment the heat spreader may be a sheet of annealed pyrolytic graphite which has a lateral thermal conductivity of approximately 450 Btu hr ft F. In other embodiments the heat spreader may be constructed of any suitable material which has a lateral thermal conductivity that is at least twice its transverse thermal conductivity.

By utilizing a heat spreader as an outer layer of the structural member the cold plate can be placed adjacent to the electronic device being cooled rather than directly beneath it. Accordingly the size and shape of the cold plate can be adjusted to whatever size and shape that is needed to properly cool the electronic devices of the structural assembly . In addition the cold plate can be located in any convenient location on the heat spreader . Furthermore by not requiring the cold plate to be located between the electronic device and the structural member the overall height of the structural assembly can be reduced. By locating the cold plate adjacent to the electronic device rather than underneath the electronic devices the stresses that the cold plate is exposed to are reduced.

Referring now to an exploded perspective view of one embodiment of a structural member for use in the structural assembly of is shown. The structural member includes two heat spreaders which may be configured as opposing outer layers of the structural member . The structural member also includes a honeycomb core disposed between the two heat spreaders . The honeycomb core is configured to be lightweight and to provide structural rigidity to the structural member . In one embodiment the honeycomb core may be constructed of aluminum. In addition the structural member also includes a plurality of edge members disposed between the two heat spreaders and along the perimeter of the honeycomb core . The structural member may also include a plurality of inserts which can be disposed in honeycomb core and which may be configured to affix one or more electronic devices and or one or more cold plates to the structural member . In one embodiment the heat spreaders may have one or more apertures through with an electronic device and or a cold plate can be affixed to one of the inserts . In one embodiment an adhesive can be used to bond the heat spreaders to the honeycomb core .

Referring now to an exploded perspective view of another embodiment of a structural member for use in the structural assembly of is shown. The structural member includes two heat spreaders which may be configured as opposing outer layers of the structural member . The structural member also includes a first fin layer and a second fin layer disposed between the two heat spreaders . The first fin layer and second fin layer each include a plurality of fins and the fins of the first layer are configured to have an orientation normal to the orientation of the fins of the second fin layer . In one embodiment the first fin layer and the second fin layer may be constructed of aluminum. The first fin layer and a second fin layer are configured to be lightweight and to provide structural rigidity to the structural member . The structural member also includes a parting sheet disposed between the first fin layer and the second fin layer . There are also parting sheets between fin layers and the adjacent thermal spreaders and between fin layer and its adjacent thermal spreader . The parting sheets contain braze alloy used to braze all of the components together through a vacuum braze process. In addition the structural member may include one or more frame sections which may be configured to receive the first fin layer and the second fin layer and to affix to the heat spreaders through the parting sheet .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the preferred embodiment to the disclosure had been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the disclosure first described.

