---

title: Thermoplastic polyurethanes with exceptional fire resistance
abstract: Thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPUs) formulations including phosphonate oligomers, phosphonate co-oligomers, phosphonate polymers, or phosphonate containing copolymers which exhibit an excellent combination of properties including optical transparency and melt flow without significant reduction in other important physical or mechanical properties and exceptional fire resistance are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09267017&OS=09267017&RS=09267017
owner: FRX Polymers, Inc.
number: 09267017
owner_city: Chelmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120820
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 525 455 entitled Thermoplastic Polyurethanes with Exceptional Fire Resistance filed Aug. 19 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Thermoplastic polyurethanes TPUs and transparent TPUs with exceptional fire resistance have been developed by formulating blends with phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate copolymers which exhibit an excellent combination of properties. These include outstanding fire resistance optical transparency and melt flow without significant reduction in other important physical or mechanical properties. The formulations avoid the use of toxic halogenated fire retardant additives and other small molecule fire retardant additives that can leach into the environment. This combination of properties has not been achievable in TPUs in a cost effective manner by past synthetic approaches or compositions.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Substantially no means that the subsequently described event may occur at most about less than 10 of the time or the subsequently described component may be at most about less than 10 of the total composition in some embodiments and in others at most about less than 5 and in still others at most about less than 1 .

The term alkyl or alkyl group refers to a branched or unbranched hydrocarbon or group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms such as but not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl t butyl octyl decyl tetradecyl hexadecyl eicosyl tetracosyl and the like. Cycloalkyl or cycloalkyl groups are branched or unbranched hydrocarbons in which all or some of the carbons are arranged in a ring such as but not limited to cyclopentyl cyclohexyl methylcyclohexyl and the like. The term lower alkyl includes an alkyl group of 1 to 10 carbon atoms.

The term aryl or aryl group refers to monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radicals or groups consisting of one or more fused rings in which at least one ring is aromatic in nature. Aryls may include but are not limited to phenyl napthyl biphenyl ring systems and the like. The aryl group may be unsubstituted or substituted with a variety of substituents including but not limited to alkyl alkenyl halide benzylic alkyl or aromatic ether nitro cyano and the like and combinations thereof.

 Substituent refers to a molecular group that replaces a hydrogen in a compound and may include but are not limited to trifluoromethyl nitro cyano C Calkyl aromatic or aryl halide F Cl Br I C Calkyl ether benzyl halide benzyl ether aromatic or aryl ether hydroxy alkoxy amino alkylamino NHR dialkylamino NR R or other groups which do not interfere with the formation of the diaryl alkylphosphonate.

As defined herein an arylol or an arylol group is an aryl group with a hydroxyl OH group substituent on the aryl ring. Non limiting examples of an arylol are phenol naphthalene and the like. A wide variety of arlyols may be used in the embodiments of the invention and are commercially available.

The term alkanol or alkanol group refers to a compound including an alkyl of 1 to 20 carbon atoms or more having at least one hydroxyl group substituent. Examples of alkanols include but are not limited to methanol ethanol 1 and 2 propanol 1 1 dimethylethanol hexanol octanol and the like. Alkanol groups may be optionally substituted with substituents as described above.

The term alkenol or alkenol group refers to a compound including an alkene 2 to 20 carbon atoms or more having at least one hydroxyl group substituent. The hydroxyl may be arranged in either isomeric configuration cis or trans . Alkenols may be further substituted with one or more substituents as described above and may be used in place of alkanols in some embodiments of the invention. Alkenols are known to those skilled in the art and many are readily available commercially.

The terms flame retardant flame resistant fire resistant or fire resistance as used herein means that the composition exhibits a limiting oxygen index LOI of at least 27. Flame retardant flame resistant fire resistant or fire resistance may also be tested by measuring the after burning time in accordance with the UL test Subject 94 . In this test the tested materials are given classifications of UL 94 V 0 UL 94 V 1 and UL 94 V 2 on the basis of the results obtained with the ten test specimens. Briefly the criteria for each of these UL 94 V classifications are as follows 

UL 94 V 0 the total flaming combustion for each specimen after removal of the ignition flame should not exceed 10 seconds and the total flaming combustion for 5 specimens should not exceed 50 seconds. None of the test specimens should release and drips which ignite absorbent cotton wool.

UL 94 V 1 the total flaming combustion for each specimen after removal of the ignition flame should not exceed 30 seconds and the total flaming combustion for 5 specimens should not exceed 250 seconds. None of the test specimens should release any drips which ignite absorbent cotton wool.

UL 94 V 2 the total flaming combustion for each specimen after removal of the ignition flame should not exceed 30 seconds and the total flaming combustion for 5 specimens should not exceed 250 seconds. Test specimens may release flaming particles which ignite absorbent cotton wool.

Fire resistance may also be tested by measuring surface flame spread as for example described in Fire Retardancy of Polymeric Materials C. A. Wilkie A. B. Morgan chapter 14 Fundamentals of Fire Testing and What Tests Measure CRC Press Boca Raton 2ed 2010 . These test methods provide a laboratory test procedure for measuring and comparing the surface flammability of materials when exposed to a prescribed level of radiant heat energy to measure the surface flammability of materials when exposed to fire. The test is conducted using small specimens that are representative to the extent possible of the material or assembly being evaluated. The rate at which flames travel along surfaces depends upon the physical and thermal properties of the material product or assembly under test the specimen mounting method and orientation the type and level of fire or heat exposure the availability of air and properties of the surrounding enclosure. If different test conditions are substituted or the end use conditions are changed it may not always be possible by or from this test to predict changes in the fire test response characteristics measured. Therefore the results are valid only for the fire test exposure conditions described in this procedure.

Typical surface flame spread tests are the ASTM E 162 and the ASTM E 84 test. ASTM E162 was developed as a less expensive and more convenient flame spread test alternative to E84. The tunnel specified by E84 constitutes an expensive and cumbersome piece of apparatus. The ASTM radiant panel test has numerous advantages over that of E84. The sample size of the E162 is 6 by 18 in while E84 requires a sample 20 in by 25 ft long which is a rather large size to deal with. It should be noted however that 4 samples are required for E162 whereas E84 requires only one.

With the E162 test a Flamespread Index Is is derived by multiplying a Flamespread Factor Fs with the Heat Evolution Factor Q . Fs resents the speed at which the flame front burns down the specimen and Q represents the heat that is generated above the burning sample. The results are categorized as a class A rating obtained when the Flamespread Index is below 25. A class B rating is obtained with a Flamespread Index between 26 and 75 and the lowest rating a class C rating is obtained when the Flamespread index is between 76 and 100.

The E84 test uses a similar classification system but the Flamespread Index is calculated on the basis of the area under the curve of flame tip location versus time. Additionally the obscuration of smoke in the exhaust duct of the tunnel is determined and expressed as a smoke developed index SDI . This number is based on the area under the light transmission versus time curve normalized to the area for red oak flooring which by definition has an SDI of 100. In all classification cases A B or C the SDI must be 450 or less.

The term hydrolytic stability as used herein is defined as the ability of the polymer to resist hydrolysis in a water boil test. The ability to resist hydrolysis can be measured by the change in relative viscosity after exposure which is an indication in molecular weight change. For example a neat resin sample can be placed in pure water triple distilled for up to 168 hours under reflux conditions at normal pressure. The samples can be removed periodically and the relative viscosity can be determined by dissolving the sample in dichloromethane at 25 C. at a concentration of 0.5 g polymer liter and measuring the solution with an Ubbelohde viscometer. A significant change in the value after the water boil is indicative of a change in molecular weight of the polymer due to hydrolysis. A polymer with good hydrolytic stability would not exhibit a significant change in as a result of this test.

 Molecular weight as used herein can be determined by relative viscosity and or gel permeation chromatography GPC . Relative viscosity of a polymer is measured by dissolving a known quantity of polymer in a solvent and comparing the time it takes for this solution and the neat solvent to travel through a specially designed capillary viscometer at a constant temperature. Relative viscosity is a measurement that is indicative of the molecular weight of a polymer. It is also well known that a reduction in relative viscosity is indicative of a reduction in molecular weight and reduction in molecular weight causes loss of mechanical properties such as strength and toughness. GPC provides information about the molecular weight and molecular weight distribution of a polymer and is typically obtained from a calibration line that is determined using polystyrene PS samples of known molecular weights. It is known that the molecular weight distribution of a polymer is important to properties such as thermo oxidative stability due to different amount of end groups toughness melt flow and fire resistance for example low molecular weight polymers drip more when burned.

The terms transparency optical transparency and light transmission used herein are intended to describe the amount of visible light wavelength range approximately 300 nm to 700 nm that can pass through the thickness of a given sample usually presented in a percentage less than 100 . The transparency is typically measured using a visible spectrophotometer by placing the sample in the light beam and the amount of light that passes through is recorded.

Thermoplastic polyurethanes TPU are a class of urethane plastics with many useful properties including elasticity transparency toughness and resistance to oil grease and abrasion and thermoplastic like processability. An overview of the production properties and applications of TPUs is given for example in the Plastics Handbook G. Becker D. Braun volume 7 Polyurethane Munich Vienna Carl Hanser Publishing 1983. TPUs are thermoplastic elastomers consisting of linear segmented block copolymers composed of hard and soft segments derived from the monomers used in their synthesis. Polyurethanes are generally synthesized by the reaction of a difunctional isocyanate compound oligomer or polymer with a difunctional hydroxy compound oligomer or polymer or combinations thereof in the presence of a catalyst. Other additives may also be present during synthesis. Consequently there are a tremendous number of possible combinations that can be synthesized by varying the chemical structure of the reactants and the molecular weight range of the TPU and an enormous variety of different TPUs in which the polymer s structure has been manipulated to achieve the desired combination of properties for a specific application.

Embodiments of the invention include any TPUs encompassed by the description above and TPUs prepared from any combination of compounds oligomers or polymers. For example in some embodiments the TPUs may be prepared from difunctional isocyanates i.e. diisocyanates that are aromatic including but not limited to diphenylmethane diisocyanate MDI or toluene diisocyanate TDI or aliphatic including but not limited to hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI or isophorone diisocyanate IPDI . In other embodiments the difunctional isocyanates may also be polymeric and may include for example polymeric diphenylmethane diisocyanate which is a blend of molecules having two three and four or more isocyanate groups with an average functionality of 2.7. In certain embodiments the diisocyanates can be modified by partially reacting them with a polyol to form a prepolymer. A true prepolymer is formed when the stoichiometric ratio of isocyanate to hydroxyl is equal to 2 1 and a quasi prepolymer is formed when the stoichiometric ratio of isocyanate to hydroxyl groups is greater than 2 1. Such prepolymers can be exposed to moisture to convert the isocyanate to amino groups which subsequently react with remaining isocyanate groups to form a urea linkage.

The other monomer used in the synthesis of TPUs is generally a difunctional hydroxyl compound i.e. diol oligomer or polymer. Examples of commonly used monomeric diols used in the making of TPUs include but are not limited to 1 2 ethylene glycol 1 4 butanediol diethylene glycol glycerine and trimethylolpropane. Polymeric diols i.e. polyols can also be used in the production of TPUs and are often formed by base catalyzed addition of propylene oxide and or ethylene oxide onto a hydroxyl or amine containing initiator or by polyesterification of a di acid such as adipic acid with glycols such as ethylene glycol or dipropylene glycol. The most common polyols are polyether polyols polycarbonate diols and polyester polyols. The molecular weight of the polyols can cover a broad range from oligomeric to high molecular weight polymer.

Catalysts used in the synthesis of TPUs include but are not limited to amine compounds and organometallic complexes. Examples of amine catalysts include tertiary amine catalysts such as but are not limited to triethylenediamine also known as 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane dimethylcyclohexylamine DMCHA and dimethyl ethanolamine DMEA . Organometallic compounds based on mercury lead tin dibutyltin dilaurate bismuth bismuth octanoate and zinc can also be used as polyurethane catalysts. Mercury carboxylates such as phenylmercuric neodeconate are particularly effective catalysts. Bismuth and zinc carboxylates have also been used as catalysts in the synthesis of TPUs. Alkyl tin carboxylates oxides and mercaptides oxides are used including but not limited to dibutyltin dilaurate dioctyltin mercaptide and dibutyltin oxide.

TPUs may be produced continuously or discontinuously. Thermoplastically processable polyurethane elastomers may be made up either step by step prepolymer dosing process or by the simultaneous reaction of all components in one stage one shot dosing process . The best known production processes are the band process and the extrusion process.

A number of TPUs are commercially available including but not limited to Elastollan BASF Elastogran Pearlthane Merquinsa Desmopan Bayer Estane Lubrizol Pellethane Lubrizol New power industrial limited New Power Irogran Huntsman Exelast EC Shin Etsu Polymer Europe B.V. Laripur COIM SpA Avalon Huntsman and Isothane Greco .

Currently available fire resistant TPUs require halogenated monomers such as halogenated diols or halogenated additives or small molecules that can leach out of the TPU over time to achieve fire resistance. As a consequence these TPUs are not environmentally friendly.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to fire resistant TPUs compositions articles of manufacture and other products including such TPUs and processes for making these TPUs and such compositions. Various embodiments are directed to TPUs formulated with phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate copolymers including phosphonate components and in certain embodiments the TPUs may be formulated with phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and copolymers including phosphonate components including aryl components i.e. aryl phosphonates . The compositions of the invention may include TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate copolymers that are combined to result in a composition in which non covalent ionic interactions hold the TPU and phosphonate components together. In other embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate copolymers may be covalently attached to the TPU either by binding to free functional groups on the TPU or crosslinking TPU chains or by being incorporated into the main chain of the TPU during preparation of the TPU.

The methods of some embodiments include mixing polyurethanes and polyurethane precursors with phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and copolymers including phosphonate components in a melt by any of the myriad of mixing processes commonly used in the plastics industry. The fire resistant TPUs including phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and copolymers including phosphonate components exhibit a combination of properties including good melt processability and optical transparency without significant reduction in elastomeric properties and tensile strength toughness and elongation to break that are improved over the properties of currently available TPUs while providing less environmental impact. In particular embodiments the TPU formulations of the invention may have optical transparencies of at least 40 or about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 95 about 60 to about 90 about 65 to about 85 or about 70 to about 80 or any value between these exemplary ranges.

Phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers are known in the literature and any such phosphonates can be used in embodiments of the invention. For example in various embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may be linear branched or hyperbranched and in some embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may contain functional end groups such as but not limited to phenol phosphonate ester carbonate epoxy vinyl and the like. In particular embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may be predominately hydroxyl terminated polyphosphonates or oligophosphonates random or block co oligo phosphonate ester s and co oligo phosphonate carbonate s such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 861 499 7 449 526 7 645 850 7 816 486 and 7 838 604 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. In certain embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may include one or more structural units of general formula 

The linear or branched polyphosphonates or copolyphosphonates may be prepared by any method known in the art. However the method by which the polyphosphonate or copolyphosphonate is prepared may affect the properties of the final mixture. For example in some embodiments the polyphosphonate component may be prepared by polymerization of one or more diphenyl phosphonates DPP and one or more aromatic dihydroxy compound such as bisphenol A BPA . The DPP and aromatic dihydroxy compound used may be prepared by any method and combined to form polyphosphonate by any method. Additionally other components such as for example branching agents and catalysts may be used in such process.

In various embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may have a weight average molecular weight of greater than 500 g mole. For example in some embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may have weight average molecular weight of from about 1 000 g mole to about 140 000 g mole and in other embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may have a weight average molecular weight of from about 1 500 g mole to about 90 000 g mol about 10 000 g mole to about 80 000 g mole or any weight average molecular weight within these ranges. Such phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers are generally soluble in for example methylene chloride however phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers can also be hydrolytically stable and insoluble in for example methylene chloride. Both soluble or insoluble phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers can be included in the formulations encompassed by the invention and in some embodiments a mixture of soluble and insoluble phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers can be included in the TPU formulations of the invention.

In various embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers included in a TPU formulation may be present at loading levels of from about 5 wt. to about 50 wt. by weight about 10 wt. to about 40 wt. about 15 wt. to about 25 wt. and so on or any weight percentage there between. For example in particular embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may be included in TPU formulations at loading levels of 5 wt. 10 wt. 15 wt. 20 wt. 25 wt. 30 wt. 35 wt. 40 wt. 45 wt. or 50 wt. .

The TPU component of formulations including TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may be any TPU known in the art including but not limited to those described above. For example the TPUs encompassed by embodiments can include aromatic diisocyanates such as but not limited to diphenylmethane diisocyanate MDI and toluene diisocyanate TDI or aliphatic diiosocynates such as but not limited to hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI and isophorone diisocyanate IPDI or polymeric isocyanates having two three and four or more isocyanate groups and diols including but are not limited to 1 2 ethylene glycol 1 4 butanediol diethylene glycol glycerine and trimethylolpropane or polyols formed by base catalyzed addition of propylene oxide and or ethylene oxide onto a hydroxyl or amine containing initiator or polyesterification of a di acid such as adipic acid with glycols such as ethylene glycol or dipropylene glycol. In particular embodiments the polyol component may be a polyether polyol polycarbonate diol or polyester polyols. More specific TPUs include commercially available TPUs including but not limited to Elastollan BASF Elastogran Pearlthane Merquinsa Desmopan Bayer Estane Lubrizol Pellethane Lubrizol New power industrial limited New Power Irogran Huntsman Exelast EC Shin Etsu Polymer Europe B.V. Laripur COIM SpA Avalon Huntsman and Isothane Greco .

Compositions including TPU and one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers such as those described above generally exhibit excellent fire resistance transparency and melt processability and this combination of properties is achieved without significantly changing the mechanical properties of the TPU including good flexibility and toughness. In particular the one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers with TPU results in substantially no loss in transparency while providing good flame resistance. In general prior art compounds with good flame resistance develop a haze or some opacity that is not observed in the compositions of the invention. Therefore compositions including only TPU and one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers can be used only as an engineering polymer in articles of manufacture.

In other embodiments such compositions including the combination of a TPU and one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may further include one or more additives such as but not limited to anti oxidants anti dripping agents additional flame retardants UV stabilizers glass carbon aramide graphite lubricants continuous fiber or chopped fiber. Still other embodiments include polymer compositions including at least one composition including TPU and one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers and at least one other polymer oligomer or monomer mixture. The other polymer oligomer or monomer mixtures of such embodiments may include or partially include monomers intended to produce oligomers or polymers of the following families polycarbonate polyacrylate polyacrylonitrile polyester polyamide polystyrene polyurethane polyepoxy poly acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polyimide polyarylate poly arylene ether polyethylene polypropylene polyphenylene sulfide poly vinyl ester polyvinyl chloride bismaleimide polymer polyanhydride liquid crystalline polymer polyether polyphenylene oxide cellulose polymer benzoxazine a hydrolytically stable polyphosphonate or a combination of these.

In further embodiments the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations may include one or more organic salts. An organic salt as used herein encompasses any compound formed by the reaction between an organic acid and an inorganic base. Exemplary organic salts include but are not limited to sodium 2 5 difluorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 4 5 tribromobenzenesulfonate sodium p iodobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 4 dibromo 5 fluorobenzenesulfonate calcium 2 5 dichlorobenzenesulfonate disodium 2 5 dichlorobenzene 1 3 disulfonate sodium 4 4 dibromobiphenyl 3 sulfonate disodium 1 4 dichloronaphthalene x y disulfonate disodium 2 2 dichloro 1 1 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethylene 3 3 disulfonate Sodium 2 4 dinitrobenzenesulfonate calcium 2 chloro 5 nitrobenzenesulfonate calcium 3 trifluoromethyl benzenesulfonate sodium 3 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl benzenesulfonate lithium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate lithium p bromobenzenesulfonate barium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate potassium 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonate magnesium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate strontium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 chloro 4 cyanobenzenesulfonate calcium 3 chloro 4 methylbenzenesulfonate sodium 4 chloro 3 methylbenzenesulfonate sodium 3 5 dichloro 2 methylbenzenesulfonate sodium 3 trifluoromethyl 5 ar pentachlorobenzyl benzenesulfonate sodium 2 chloro 4 trifluorovinyl benzenesulfonate sodium 4 bromo dichlorostilbenesulfonate potassium tetrakis 4 chlorophenyl ethylene 3 sulfonate sodium 4 2 3 4 5 6 4 heptachlorotriphenylmethane 3 sulfonate disodium 1 1 1 trichloro 2 4 cyanophenyl 2 4 chlorophenyl ethanesulfonate sodium 2 2 bis 4 chlorophenyl hexafluoropropane 3 sulfonate lithium 9 10 dichloroanthracenesulfonate sodium 1 3 6 8 tetrachloropyrene 4 sulfonate sodium 2 3 dichlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 3 4 trichlorobenzenesulfonate sodium pentachlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 3 5 6 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonate sodium 2 3 4 5 tetrabromobenzenesulfonate trisodium 2 4 6 trichlorobenzene 1 3 5 trisulfonate p fluorobenzene sulfonic acid 2 3 4 5 tetrafluorobenzenesulfonic acid pentafluorobenzenesulfonic acid p chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 4 dichlorobenzenesulfonic acid p bromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 5 dibromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 bromo 4 chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 chloro 4 bromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 bromo 5 chlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 chloro 5 bromobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 4 trichlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 4 6 trichlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 4 5 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 5 6 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonic acid 2 3 4 6 tetrachlorobenzenesulfonic acid pentachlorobenzenesulfonic acid 1 chloronaphthalene x sulfonic acid 1 x dichloronaphthalene y sulfonic acid 1 bromonaphthalene x sulfonic acid 4 5 dichlorobenzene 1 3 disulfonic acid and combinations thereof. In other embodiments the organic salts may be sodium or calcium salts of oligomeric or polymeric sulfonic acids such as but not limited to sodium or calcium salts of poly monochlorostyrene sulfonic acid containing one sulfonate group per 5.4 phenyl rings. In particular embodiments the organic salt may be potassium diphenylsulfone sulfonate KSS and sodium trichlorobenzene sulfonate STB potassium perfluorobutane sulfonate KPFBS p toluenesulfonic acid sodium salt NaTS poly styrenesulfonic acid sodium salt and similar salts potassium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzene potassium 2 4 5 trichlorobenzenesulfonate and combinations thereof. Quantities of such organic salts known to be useful in the polymer arts are known in the art and any concentration of organic salt sufficient to provide flame resistance may be used in embodiments. For example in certain embodiments the organic salts may be provided at about 0.01 wt. to about 1.0 wt. .

In further embodiments a co additive may be provided along with the organic salts to improve for example clarity of the resulting polymer and or processability. Examples of co additives that provide such properties include but are not limited to octaphenylcyclotetrasiloxane poly methyl siloxane poly methylphenyl siloxane halogenated organic additives such as tetrabromobenzene hexachlorobenzene and hexabromobenzene and biphenyls such as 2 2 dichlorobiphenyl 2 4 dibromobiphenyl 2 4 dichlorobiphenyl hexabromobiphenyl octabromobiphenyl decabromobiphenyl and halogenated diphenyl ethers containing 2 to 10 halogen atoms. Generally small quantities of such co additives are necessary to produce the desired result. For example in various embodiments less than 1.0 wt. or less than 0.5 wt. of such co additives may be provided in the polymer compositions.

In still other embodiments the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations may include additional components including for example reinforcing materials. For example in some embodiments the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer of the invention may be combined with unidirectional woven continuous or chopped glass fibers carbon ceramic or an organic fiber to make prepreg and fiber reinforced composites which may be used in for example laminates.

Polymer compositions including TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers and one or more other polymer exhibit an excellent combination of properties including good mechanical properties and excellent fire resistance. For example such compositions as described above polymer may exhibit a limiting oxygen index of at least about 27 from about 27 to about 40 or about 28 to about 35 and so on or any specific value within these exemplary ranges.

Other embodiments are directed to methods for preparing the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers compositions described above. Such embodiments generally include the step of mixing TPU with one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers. The TPU and the phosphonate oligomers co oligomers polymers or copolymers may be mixed using any mixing technique known in the art such as but not limited to melt mixing solvent mixing mixing of dry powders or pellets and the like.

In some embodiments the methods may further include the step of processing a mixture of TPU and one or more phosphonate oligomers co oligomers polymers or copolymers using any of a variety of methods including for example heating melting blending mixing combining rolling extruding co extruding pelletizing molding spin casting calendaring sintering and the like and combinations thereof or other methods of processing. Such processing may result in a TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers mixture in any form known in the art such as for example adhesives coatings films fibers foams sheets moldings and the like. In still other embodiments the methods may include combining the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers mixtures with one or more additional components such as for example reinforcing materials. Such reinforced materials may include TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer combined with continuous or chopped glass fibers carbon ceramic or an organic fiber to make fiber reinforced prepreg and fiber reinforced composites that may in some embodiments be used in laminates.

Further embodiments of the invention include articles of manufacture made from TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer. Such articles of manufacture include coatings on plastics metals ceramic or wood products or the materials and formulations of embodiments can be used to fabricate coatings free standing films fibers foams molded articles and fiber reinforced composites.

In some embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers may have reactive end groups such as hydroxyl phenol phosphonate ester carbonate epoxy vinyl vinyl ester isopropenyl isocyanate and combinations thereof. Such materials are described in U.S. Publication Application No. 2012 0172500 entitled Oligomeric Phosphonates and Compositions Including the Same published on Jul. 5 2012. In some embodiments the phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers with reactive end groups may chemically react with the TPU or TPU oligomers or precursors upon mixing or blending or heating or any combination thereof.

In still other embodiments the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer described above which may or may not include components such as reinforcing materials can be used in a variety of applications. For example such compositions may be used in electronic housings and interconnects sheet molding products consumer products lighting LEDs footwear blow molded films snowmobile tracks vehicle bushings extruded sheets for building and construction applications building and construction materials flooring roofing materials weatherstripping composite wood apparel household appliances automotive interiors marine structures medical general purpose tubing hospital bedding surgical drapes wound dressings catheters and a variety of injection molded devices packaging car bumpers electrical housing panels computer and telecommunication equipment enclosures and the like. In other embodiments the materials and formulations of various embodiments described above may be used to fabricate components such as housings which become incorporated into articles of manufacture such as electronic consumer goods i.e. televisions computers printers cell phones video games DVD players stereos and other similar electronic articles .

In yet other embodiments TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer of the invention may be used as reactive additives and combined with other polymers oligomers or monomer mixtures to form blends. As such the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer may be provided or sold as an additive. Such polymer composition may include at least one TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer of the invention with at least one commodity or engineering plastic. The polymer composition may be produced via blending mixing or compounding the constituent polymers oligomers or monomers. Due to the structure and properties of the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers formulations and such formulations including one or more other polymer or copolymer formulations and polymer compositions of the invention the resulting polymer compositions exhibit exceptional flame resistance e.g. higher LOI and melt processing characteristics.

The term polymer composition as used herein refers to a composition that comprises at least one TPU combined with one or more phosphonate oligomers phosphonate co oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers phosphonate polymer oligomer co oligomer polymer or copolymer and at least one other polymer oligomer or monomer mixture. The other polymer oligomer or monomer mixture may include those that comprise or are partially comprised of or are comprised of monomers intended to produce the following polymer families including but not limited to a polycarbonate polyacrylate polyacrylonitrile polyester polyamide polystyrene polyurethane polyepoxy poly acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polyimide polyarylate poly arylene ether polyethylene polypropylene polyphenylene sulfide poly vinyl ester polyvinyl chloride bismaleimide polymer polyanhydride liquid crystalline polymer polyether polyphenylene oxide cellulose polymer benzoxazine a hydrolytically stable polyphosphonate or a combination of these. Preferably the polymer composition exhibits a limiting oxygen index of at least 27.

The TPU phosphonate polymer oligomer co oligomer polymer or copolymer formulations and polymer compositions of the present invention may include other components such as but not limited to fillers like unidirectional woven chopped or continuous glass metal carbon based or ceramic fibers dyes antioxidants additional flame retardants anti dripping agents organic binders polymeric binders crosslinking agents coupling agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents and other additives typically used with urethanes and polyurethanes. In some embodiments the additives may include a colorant ink dye and or pigment. In some embodiments additional fire resistant additives may be included such as but are not limited to metal hydroxides nitrogen containing flame retardants such as melamine cyanurate phosphinate salts organic phosphates other phosphonates organic sulfonate salts perfluorinated sulfonate salts siloxanes and the like.

The TPU phosphonate polymer oligomer co oligomer polymer or copolymer formulations and polymer compositions of the present invention can be used as coatings on plastics metals ceramic or wood products or they can be used to fabricate articles such as free standing films fibers foams molded articles and fiber reinforced composites. These articles may be well suited for applications requiring fire resistance.

The TPU phosphonate polymer oligomer co oligomer polymer or copolymer formulations and polymer compositions of the present invention exhibit outstanding flame resistance and good melt processability. Such improvements make these materials useful in applications in the automotive and electronic sectors that require outstanding fire retardancy high temperature performance and melt processability. For example they may be useful in the fabrication of molded parts which are used in a wide variety of electronic components that are used to fabricate consumer electronics that may include computers printers modems laptops computers cell phones video games DVD players stereos and similar items.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification. Various aspects of the present invention will be illustrated with reference to the following non limiting examples. The following examples are for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the invention in any manner.

Blends were prepared by hand mixing and melt mixing the TPU and phosphonate oligomers phosphonate polymers and phosphonate containing copolymers in a 30 mm Werner and Pfleider co rotating twin screw extruder model ZS B25 L D 40 . The extruder had eight heating zones including the adaptor and die zone and the temperatures in the zones were set at 210 220 C. The mixtures were subsequently injection molded into various test specimens using a 30T Trubor S N 8230 5 model 30 RS 1 1 2 oz . The 4 zone temperatures including the die and the nozzle varied from 200 210 C. depending on the blend composition. Blends were prepared from several different commercially available TPUs and commercially available polyphosphonates FRX100 phosphonate oligomer OL5000 and poly phosphonate co carbonates CO35 CO60 prepared as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 861 499 and 7 816 486. The polyphosphonates and phosphonate oligomer that were used contained about 10.4 10.7 wt of P. The CO35 and CO60 poly phosphonate co carbonate s contained about 3.7 and 6.4 wt of P. Additional characteristics are shown in Table 1. ESTANE 58887 ESTANE ETE 50DT3 polyether based TPUs and ESTANE 58271 polyester based TPU are commercial TPUs from Lubrizol Advanced Materials Inc. Elastollan 1185A polyether based TPU and Elastollan C85A polyester based TPU are commercial products from BASF Corporation and PEARLTHANE 16N80 is a commercial TPU available from Merquinsa Inc.

Molecular weight distributions were determined by measuring 0.5 w v solutions of polymer in tetrahydrofuran by gel permeation chromatography GPC using a refractive index detector. Calibration of the instrument was conducted with linear polystyrene PS standards of known molecular weights. The weight average Mw number average Mn and polydispersity Mw Mn referred to as PD were evaluated from the chromatograms by using WinGPC software.

Glass transition temperatures Tg were measured using differential scanning calorimetry DSC . The material was heated at a rate of 10 C. min to 250 C. After keeping the sample at this temperature for 10 minutes the temperature of the sample was decreased at a rate of 40 C. min to 10 C. The Tg was determined during a second heating cycle 10 C. min to 250 C. based on the Cp method.

The Melt Volume Rate MVR of samples was determined at different set temperatures and weights using a Dynisco Melt Flow Indexer. Samples were held at the respective temperature for 6 minutes before the measurement was started.

Tensile properties were measured according ISO 527 1 using ISO 3167 multipurpose test specimen width of 10 mm thickness of 4 mm . The cross head speed was 500 mm min.

The hardness of the TPUs was tested according ASTM D2240 on plaques of 3 mm thickness taking the initial reading of the instrument.

The transparency T of the blends was determined by molding plaques of 3 mm and measuring the transparency of these plaques using a DataColor 650 UV Vis spectrophotometer.

The test was conducted in accordance with ASTM Designation E 162 Standard Method of Test for Surface Flammability of Materials Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source . Test specimens of 6 by 18 were predried for 24 hours at 60 C. and then conditioned to equilibrium at a controlled temperature of 23 3 C. and a relatively humidity of 50 5 percent. Thickness of the sample was 0.33 0.056 thk the on 0.27 thk board .

The test was conducted in accordance with ASTM designation E 84 Standard Method of Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials . The test sample was a TPU film with a thickness of 26 30 mils. The sample consisted of five test panels with a total length of 24 feet and 2 feet wide. The panels were prepared by adhering the polymer to inch thick cement board using contact cement. The panels were conditioned to equilibrium at 71 2 F. and a relative humidity at 50 5 percent. For testing the panels were placed end to end on the ledges of the tunnel furnace and tested with no auxiliary support mechanism.

The blends were prepared and fabricated into test specimens as described above. The compositions of these blends are provided in Table 2. The mechanical and optical properties of these blends are provided in Table 3. The flame retardancy of these blends according the E162 and E84 test are described in Tables 4 and 5 respectively.

As illustrated in Tables 3 and 4 the TPU polyphosphonate blends have good mechanical properties Table 3 and an excellent fire resistance Table 4 . Depending on the use of a high Mw polyphosphonate or a low Mw phosphonate oligomer the material demonstrate more rigid stiff properties EX1 3 with a high modulus or more flexible properties with a low modulus and high elongation at break EX4 . Adding the polyphosphonates or phosphonate oligomers also hardly affected the hardness of the materials.

Irrespective of the Mw all materials that contain the phosphonate additive obtained a class A rating in the E 162 test. A class A rating is obtained when the Flamespread Index is below 25. A class B rating is obtained with a Flamespread Index between 26 and 75 and the lowest rating a C rating is obtained when the Flamespread index is between 76 and 100. Thus the comparative examples 1 and 2 even do not get a rating according this test.

Example 3 was tested according E84 where a similar rating as in the E 162 test is used. Additionally a Smoke Development Index is measured that needs to be below 450 for either a class A B or C classification. The test data for Example 3 show that the material falls well within the class A rating according the E84 test.

Very surprisingly the optical transparency of the materials did not decrease when the polyphosphonate or phosphonate oligomers were added. Thus the materials remained transparent had adjustable mechanical properties and excellent FR properties. This combination of properties has not been achieved before with TPUs using flame retardant additives.

Additional blends were made using a different TPU source Table 5 and varying the amount of polyphosphonate. These data confirmed the class A rating when adding 20 wt of polyphosphonate to TPU. At 10 a class B rating was obtained. In both cases the optical transparency of the TPU remained unchanged and the blends with the polyphosphonate were transparent.

Examples 1 6 were all made with polyether based TPUs. Additionally a number of blends were made with polyester based TPUs to confirm whether it is possible to maintain transparency when adding polyphosphonates or phosphonate oligomers to these type of TPUs. The results are shown in Table 6 and demonstrate that it also was possible to obtain transparent blends of polyester based TPUs when blending with polyphosphonates of phosphonate oligomers. Even adding up to 40 wt of polyphosphonate did not result in a substantial decrease in optical transparency.

Finally blends of both polyester TPUs and polyether TPUs were made with poly phosphonate co carbonates Table 7 . Both the polyester and polyether based TPUs that were blended with the poly phosphonate co carbonate with a relatively high level of phosphonate linkages CO60 showed similar high transmission values as the TPUs that were blended with the polyphosphonates. The poly phosphonate co carbonate s with a relatively low level of phosphonate linkages CO35 still were transparent but the T had dropped from 70 to 40 . These results also demonstrate the unexpected behavior that a high level of phospohonate groups in the backbone of these type of polymers has a positive effect on the T of the ultimate blends of these materials with TPUs.

