---

title: Systems and methods for engaging an audience in a conversational advertisement
abstract: A system and method are described for engaging an audience in a conversational advertisement. A conversational advertising system converses with an audience using spoken words. The conversational advertising system uses a speech recognition application to convert an audience's spoken input into text and a text-to-speech application to transform text of a response to speech that is to be played to the audience. The conversational adverting system follows an advertisement script to guide the audience in a conversation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619812&OS=09619812&RS=09619812
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09619812
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120828
---
Advertising is used to persuade an audience to take or continue to take a particular action. The success of an advertisement or an advertising campaign depends on a number of factors. One prominent factor is whether an advertiser is able to reach a target audience with its message. For example an advertisement for diapers will have little success in persuading consumers who do not have a baby to buy diapers. Another factor is whether an advertiser is able to grab and hold the target audience s attention. An advertisement that an audience quickly dismisses or does not notice will likely have little effect on the audience s behavior.

Traditional media is limited as a mode for advertisers to either target a proper audience or hold the audience s attention. Using traditional media such as television or print an advertiser may direct its message to particular demographics of a population which may be identified based on who is most likely to be consuming the media that the advertisements are tied to. But many members of the audience who ultimately consume the media may not fit the targeted demographic or may otherwise find the advertisement irrelevant. And the passive nature by which traditional media is consumed makes it difficult to engage audiences with advertisements.

The Internet has transformed advertising. It enables advertisers to target audiences on an individual basis using methods that are technologically infeasible through traditional media. For example information can be learned about a user from his or her browsing or purchasing history search queries social networking profile email messages and so on. And if advertisers are able to recognize the user they can identify and present ads that are likely to be relevant. The Internet also allows advertisers to engage users in ways that are impossible through traditional media. For example computer users may select a banner advertisement to commence purchasing a product or choose a commercial that they would like to view during a sitcom.

However like with traditional media online advertisers have a difficult time fully engaging an audience. Online advertisements litter web page sidebars and footers of mobile apps unnoticed by users or too inconvenient for them to engage with. And those that are able to attract a user s attention such as pop up ads and surveys are obtrusive and degrade a user s experience of a webpage. Furthermore as the Internet has evolved and consumers have increasingly consumed traditional media through the Internet Internet usage has become more passive. As a result it is more difficult for advertisers to exploit the interactive capabilities of the Internet when advertising to an online audience.

The need exists for a system that overcomes the above problems as well as one that provides additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related systems and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of existing or prior systems will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description.

A conversational advertising system will now be described below which operates advertisements that engage an audience in a conversation. The conversational advertising system delivers advertisements via personal computers mobile devices tablet computers televisions appliances and the like. Through these conversational advertisements the conversational advertising system participates in a verbal conversation with an audience. For example an advertisement during a television show may pose a question to the audience using spoken words and each member of the audience may in turn respond to the question using spoken words. The conversational advertising system recognizes the audience s response and may reply thus conversing with members of the audience or the audience as a whole. The conversational advertising system may also listen to a conversation among members of an audience in order to advertise to the audience. For example the conversational advertising system may be implemented in a gaming environment in which an audience is split into teams to play a trivia game. The conversational advertising system may listen to audience members converse among each other in order to ask relevant trivia questions or interject comments or questions associated with an advertisement. By engaging an audience in a conversation an advertiser is able to hold the audience s attention for an extended period of time. The advertiser can also mold the conversation based on the audience s response or information identified by analyzing a response e.g. a gender or age of the audience enabling the advertiser to identify the true desires and interests of the audience. An advertiser can also create a conversational advertisement at a cost that is much lower than if the advertiser were to produce a rich video or other advertisement. As a result an advertiser is able to more effectively persuade an audience with its message as well as provide other benefits.

A conversational advertisement can be presented by web pages television shows radio programs an Intelligent Agent user interface mobile applications including third party apps and the like. Accordingly the conversational advertising system may present conversational advertisements in many ways. For example conversational advertisements may be included as part of commercial breaks during television or radio programs in banner advertisements on web pages and presented by mobile apps. Conversational advertisements may include audio only video and audio audio and computer generated graphics and other combinations of media that include audio. Conversational advertisements interact with an audience using natural language dialog. A conversational advertisement may include multiple possible responses to convey to an audience. Accordingly a single conversational advertisement may contain hundreds of different messages or more that an advertiser can convey to an audience depending on responses received from the audience and other factors.

The conversational advertising system may commence a conversational advertisement by positing a question to an audience or by otherwise providing an indication to the audience that the audience may respond verbally to an advertisement. For example the conversational advertising system may synthesize speech that is played to the audience or identify and play pre recorded audio segments instructing the audience to respond by stating the audience s preference with regard to a matter. The conversational advertising system may also generate a graphic or play a video that indicates to the audience that it can speak to the advertisement to provide input. The conversational advertising system may modify the graphic or play particular videos based on an audience s input and or the progress of the conversation.

Each conversational advertisement is associated with an advertisement script that guides a conversation. In some implementations an advertisement script includes questions or statements for the conversational advertising system to convey to an audience answers that are to be recognized by the conversational advertising system if they are spoken by the audience in a response and further questions or statements that are to be conveyed to the audience if appropriate and or actions that are to be taken based on the audience s response s . An advertisement script may include many levels of questions answers and actions and many different possible audience responses to convey to an audience or to expect to receive from the audience. As an example FIG. B is a block diagram of an advertisement script tree that is based on an example advertisement script that the conversational advertising system may follow in engaging an audience in a conversational advertisement. After presenting the conversational advertisement to an audience an audience s input is received. Based on input from the audience and or other factors as described herein at a first decision point the conversational advertising system proceeds to a first branch level of the tree to either a first first level branch or a second first level branch . The advertisement script includes different questions and or actions that are to be conveyed to the audience and or taken depending on whether the conversational advertising system proceeds to the first first level branch or the second first level branch . After receiving input from the audience at the first branch level of the tree and or based on other factors the conversational advertising system proceeds to a second branch level of the tree. The advertisement script includes different questions and or actions that are to be conveyed to the audience and or taken depending on whether the conversational advertising system proceeds to a first second level branch a second second level branch a third second level branch or a fourth second level branch

The conversational advertising system may navigate through an advertisement script based at least in part on environmental conditions surrounding the presentation of the conversational advertisement. In some implementations an advertisement script includes a non connected path which is followed if the conversational advertising system determines that conditions surrounding the presentation of the advertisement prevent the conversational advertising system from adequately receiving an audience s input. Such conditions include if a device for presenting the conversational advertisement does not include or does not have access to a suitable microphone if a microphone is available but unable to record audio with sufficient quality for the conversational advertising system to determine that the audience has provided verbal input or if a backend speech recognition system is non responsive. The non connected path specifies a particular path through the advertisement script that the conversational advertising system is to follow to navigate a conversational advertisement with no audience participation. In some implementations an advertisement script includes a nonsense path which is followed if the conversational advertising system determines that an audience s input can be captured but not deciphered or the audience s input is irrelevant or nonsense. The nonsense path specifies a particular path that the conversational advertising system is to follow through the advertisement script in a manner that acknowledges to the audience that audience input was received but was determined to be unusable. In some implementations an advertisement script includes a default path which the conversational advertising system follows if an audience s input can be received e.g. a microphone is able to record the audience s input but the audience provides no input.

The conversational advertisement system may modify an advertisement script including questions statements or actions included therein during a conversation with an audience. For example the conversation advertising system may add to a question a name of an audience member or a city that the audience lives in. The term audience is generally used herein to represent a group of individuals a single individual from the group or even client devices within a group of devices. In some implementations the conversational advertising system changes a direction of a conversation partway through the conversation based at least in part on responses received from the audience. For example the conversation advertising system may determine that an audience has already purchased a first product that the conversation advertising system was originally trying to persuade the audience to buy and the conversation advertising system may steer the conversation toward discussing accessories for that product. In some implementations the conversational advertising system modifies or selects an advertisement script or proceeds through an advertisement script based on a characteristic it identifies pertaining to the audience. For example the conversational advertising system may perform a gender or age analysis on a voice from the audience and target an advertisement to the audience accordingly. In some implementations the conversational advertising system resumes a dialog from a previous engagement with an audience. For example the conversational advertising system may determine that an audience only interacted with an advertisement through a portion of an advertisement script associated with the advertisement. The conversational advertising system may resume the advertisement by picking up from where it left off and or by recapping the previous interaction between the audience and the conversational advertisement system and proceeding according to an audience s input.

The conversational advertising system listens to an audience by converting speech recorded from the audience into text and analyzing the text. By comparing the text to an advertisement script and in some implementations using text analytics and natural language analysis techniques the conversational advertising system determines an appropriate response to convey to the audience or an action that should be taken. If it is to respond the conversational advertising system synthesizes speech using text from or based on the advertisement script. The conversational advertising system may also identify pre recorded audio or video clips that are responsive to the audience s input. For example the conversational advertising system may access a database of recorded celebrity voices from which it may identify audio segments to play to the audience. In some implementations advertisers or audience members may select a voice from a group of different voices that the conversational advertising system uses in synthesizing speech. For example an advertiser may specify that the conversational advertising system synthesize speech that has an Australian accent.

Various implementations of the invention will now be described. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and an enabling description of these implementations. One skilled in the art will understand however that the invention may be practiced without many of these details. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description of the various implementations. The terminology used in the description presented below is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific implementations of the invention.

The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules or subroutines may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Aspects of the invention described below may be stored or distributed on tangible non transitory computer readable media including magnetic and optically readable and removable computer discs stored in firmware in chips e.g. EEPROM chips . Alternatively aspects of the invention may be distributed electronically over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks . Those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that portions of the invention may reside on a server computer while corresponding portions reside on a client computer. Data structures and transmission of data particular to aspects of the invention are also encompassed within the scope of the invention.

Referring to the example of a conversational advertising system operates in or among a computing device such as mobile devices computer appliance television or server . The computing device may be deployed in vehicles or other environments. For example a vehicle radio may include a computing system that plays conversational advertisements in a similar manner as conventional radio advertisements. The mobile devices computer appliance and television include a network card or another device that enables them to communicate through one or more networks and include a microphone and speakers. The mobile devices computer appliance and television communicate via the network with a server . A data storage area contains data pertaining to the conversational advertising system and software necessary to perform functions of these systems. For example the data storage area may contain data pertaining to advertisements text to speech systems speech recognition systems and the like. The conversational advertising system may communicate with one or more third party servers which are coupled to data storage areas . Third party servers and server may share advertising data user data and the like. The conversational advertising system may store in the data storage area user data and data extracted as a result of an audience s interaction with an advertisement.

The mobile devices computer appliances and television communicate with each other and the server and third party server through the networks including for example the Internet. The mobile device communicates wirelessly with a base station or access point using a wireless mobile telephone standard such as the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or later variants such as 3G or 4G or another wireless standard such as IEEE 802.11 and the base station or access point communicates with the server and third party server via the networks . The computer appliance and television communicate through the networks using for example TCP IP protocols.

The conversational advertising system receives new audience data third party input and audience input and outputs conversational advertisements. The new audience data includes information pertaining to the audience that the conversational advertising system engages with using a conversational advertisement. The third party input includes input from advertisers such as advertisements e.g. an advertisement script videos graphics images etc. advertisement metadata e.g. a description of the advertisement and data associated with the advertisements e.g. target audience data . The third party input also includes requests from systems to commence a conversational advertisement. For example a webpage may send a request to the conversational advertising system to commence the presentation of a conversational advertisement. The audience input includes information submitted by an audience in response to a conversational advertisement. Audience input may include audio data text data pertaining to a selection of a feature of an advertisement and so forth. The conversational advertising system outputs conversational advertisements including responses from the conversational advertising system to the audience and information related to actions that should be taken as a result of responses from the audience.

Advertisers may use a wizard or another tool to create a conversational advertisement. In some implementations a wizard guides an advertiser through a series of questions or requests for information through which the advertiser submits data and information necessary to create a conversational advertisement and corresponding advertisement script. The wizard then compiles the information submitted by the advertiser to create the conversational advertisement. The wizard may provide an interface that allows an advertiser to submit information. The advertiser may specify whether a conversational advertisement is to include audio only or audio and video. The advertiser may also submit basic audience prompts and responses that are to be included in an advertisement script. The advertiser may also select a voice from a group of voices that is to be used to synthesize speech for the conversational advertisement. The advertiser can upload visual elements and dialogue script through the wizard and identify actions that are to be taken based on a conversation with an audience. Example actions include launching an application finding an application launching a webpage buying a product and commencing a phone call. In some implementations an audience is associated with an online wallet or a stored credit card and an action is to automatically purchase a product based on an audience s response using the online wallet or credit card. In some implementations a non advertising user may utilize a wizard or another tool to create a conversational advertisement that is to be conveyed to an audience. For example a husband may use a wizard to create a conversational advertisement in the form of a birthday card that the husband may send to his wife through e mail. The birthday card may include a greeting such as Dear Kelli will you be my Valentine The birthday card may include an advertisement script that is to be followed to facilitate a conversational advertisement with the wife.

The conversation module determines whether to provide a conversational advertisement to an audience and if a conversational advertisement is to be provided selects an advertisement based on a given audience input speech text from speech etc. environmental factors or other information or it may select to provide a default advertisement. It also analyzes audience responses to the advertisement and determines appropriate responses to convey to the audience in reply to audience responses or actions that should be taken in light of audience responses.

The conversation module considers a number of factors in determining whether to present a conversational advertisement to an audience. In some implementations the conversation module makes this determination based at least in part on an analysis of received new user data. Received new user data includes information pertaining to an environment in which the conversational advertisement is to be presented. For example new user data may include global positioning system GPS coordinates provided by a device that is to present a conversational advertisement. New user data may also include information pertaining to background noise levels of the device and an audience s current status with the device. For example a mobile device can provide information pertaining to an audience s status within a game that the audience is playing or a web page that the audience is viewing. In some implementations the conversation module determines to provide a conversational advertisement if the environmental factors meet a particular standard. For example the conversation module may provide a conversational advertisement if noise measured by the device is below a certain amplitude if the device is within a particular geographic area if the audience is determined to be viewing a particular video or so forth. In some implementations the conversation module determines to proceed with presenting a conversational advertisement regardless of a status of an audience or any other information determined about the audience.

The conversation module selects an advertisement to provide to the audience from a repository of advertisements in advertisement data storage area . In some implementations the conversation module identifies an advertisement that is likely to be relevant to the audience. It may base this selection on information associated with the audience that it receives from the audience recognition module or speech recognition module . It may also base this selection on received audience input. For example the conversation module may receive information related to a search query submitted by the audience and identify an advertisement associated with the search query.

The conversation module facilitates a conversation with an audience by analyzing audience responses and generating appropriate responses. The conversation module receives text of an audience s response and data associated therewith from the speech recognition module . And the conversation module provides text of a response to the text to speech module which generates speech that is played to the audience. In some implementations conversation module receives text input submitted by an audience in response to an advertisement. The conversational advertising system can also deliver and present text of a response provided by the conversation module in order to respond to an audience. The text of the response can be the same or different from the words that are synthesized into audio and played to the audience. For example the conversational advertising system may provide subtitles that are a formal version of the words that are synthesized and played to the audience. In some implementations the conversational advertising system displays subtitles of the words that are synthesized and played to the audience. For example the conversational advertising system may synthesize and play English words to the audience and display Spanish subtitles of the words simultaneously. In some implementations the conversation module identifies in advertisement data storage area pre recorded audio and or video segments that are responsive to an audience s input and the conversational advertising system plays these segments to the audience instead of or in addition to synthesized speech from text. In some implementations an audience response includes other user input such as an indication of a selection of a graphical user interface GUI object or text that was submitted by the user. The conversation module may receive and analyze this other user input as well.

The conversation module guides a conversation with an audience using an advertisement script. The conversation module compares text of an audience s response to an advertisement script in order to determine appropriate responses to audience responses or actions that should be taken in light of audience responses. In some implementations appropriate responses and or actions are determined by searching text of an audience s response for keywords or phrases and synonyms or otherwise related words or phrases specified by the advertisement script. Each keyword or phrase may be associated with an appropriate response and or action. In some implementations the conversation module applies text analytics or natural language processing techniques to analyze the audience s response and compare it to the advertisement script in order to determine an appropriate response or action. In some implementations the conversation module navigates an advertisement script based at least in part on information associated with the presentation of a conversational advertisement including for example environmental data pertaining to the presentation of the advertisement. For example the conversation module may determine that a conversational advertisement is being presented in a noisy environment and it may navigate an advertisement script in order to speak to the audience more than it would have in a quite environment. In some implementations the conversation module accesses information from audience data storage area pertaining to an audience s previous experience with an advertisement script in order to determine an appropriate place within the script to recommence interaction with the audience. For example an audience may have navigated away from a conversational advertisement appearing on a first web page and the conversational advertising system may continue the conversational advertisement on a second web page picking up from where the audience left off in the audience s initial interaction with the advertisement.

The conversation module may supplement or otherwise modify a response or action of a script. In some implementations the conversation module personalizes a response or action based on information about the audience. For example it may modify a response so that it includes a name of an audience member or a city that the audience member lives which it may determined based on audience input or data from the audience recognition module. As another example the conversation module may receive data from the speech recognition module pertaining to a suspected gender or age of an audience member identified through gender or age analysis techniques applied to an audience response. As another example the conversation module may modify an action associated with launching a website so that the audience s Internet browser is directed to a webpage designed for the audience s location. In some implementations the conversation module selects a response to convey to the audience that is likely to be relevant to the audience basing its selection on information associated with the audience. For example if an audience s response is associated with two different reply options in an advertisement script one pertaining to women and one pertaining to men the conversation module may select the response pertaining to women if the audience recipient is determined to include a woman.

The conversation module may pre process advertisements and advertisement scripts. Third party data received by the conversational advertising system may include advertisements or portions of advertisements. The conversation module may process the submitted information to automatically identify relevant keywords or other data in order to provide an intelligent conversation with the audience. In some implementations an administrator reviews information submitted by an advertiser in order to identify keywords or other information to be used by the conversation module to interpret an audience s response to an advertisement or to select an appropriate response or action based on the audience s response. For example an advertiser may submit a script to the conversational advertising system that an administrator of the conversational advertising system manually reviews to identify relevant keywords and responses. The conversation module stores advertisements and associated data in the advertisement data storage area .

If the conversation module determines that an action should be taken in light of a response from the audience the conversation module transmits instructions to appropriate hardware and or software modules or computing devices so that the action may be executed. For example a conversational advertising system operating on a server and presenting a conversational advertisement on a mobile device may instruct the mobile device to launch a web browser in order to execute an action of directing the audience to a particular webpage. In some implementations the conversational advertising system utilizes application programming interfaces APIs existing on the operating system of a client device e.g. an audience s mobile device and functionality embodied in the operating system and other applications of the client device to automatically perform actions based on an audience s verbal input to the conversational advertising system. As discussed above a single conversational advertisement includes multiple destinations e.g. actions that may be taken based on how a conversation unfolds and the audience may determine the ultimate destination based on how the audience engages with the conversational advertisement.

The text to speech module receives text and converts it into speech. The text to speech module may also receive input pertaining to a speech preferences. For example an advertiser may specify that synthesized speech have a particular voice. In some implementations the text to speech module chooses a voice for synthesized speech based at least in part on information associated with the audience. For example if the audience is determined to be British the text to speech module may synthesize speech that has a British accent. As mentioned above the text to speech module may receive text to convert to speech from the conversation module . For example the text may be a response of the conversational advertising system to an audience. The text to speech module utilizes a speech synthesizer. One suitable speech synthesizer is sold by Nuance Communications Inc. of Burlington Mass. and called Vocalizer. The text to speech module accesses data stored in the text to speech data storage area which it uses to convert text to speech.

The speech recognition module receives audio data and generates a transcription of spoken words represented by the audio data. The audience input that is received by the conversational advertising system may include audio data representing words spoken by the audience and captured by a microphone. The speech recognition module utilizes a speech recognition application such as Dragon which is also sold by Nuance Communications Inc. The speech recognition module accesses data stored in the speech recognition data storage area which it uses to identify spoken words from audio recordings. The speech recognition module also analyzes received audio data to identify information pertaining to the audience. For example the speech recognition module can utilize gender or age analysis techniques in order to identify a sex or age of a member of an audience.

The audience recognition module identifies information associated with an audience. The information associated with the audience may be used by the conversation module for targeting conversational advertisements to the audience. The audience recognition module may identify this information in the new audience data that is received by the conversation advertising system. The new audience data may include identifying information associated with the audience such as an IP address a username an account number environmental information e.g. a location of the audience noise information pertaining to the audience s environment computer usage information and so forth. The audience recognition module may search for stored audience data that is associated with the new audience data. The audience data storage area may contain the stored audience data. Stored audience data may include for example interests or data related to advertisements that the audience previously viewed such as the audience s response to previously presented conversational advertisements. The conversational advertising system is configured to identify advertisements and responses that are likely to be relevant to the audience based on the information known about the audience. When new audience data is received the audience recognition module stores the new audience data in audience data storage area . The audience data storage area may also store other data relevant to advertising such as demographic data survey responses Internet cookies and ad logs that track individual audience member s interactions with online content etc.

The conversation analysis module examines conversations that result from a conversational advertisement to learn information associated with the audience and the advertisement. For example the conversation analysis module may determine an interest of an audience based on the audience s response to a question. In some implementations the conversation analysis module parses an audience s responses to an advertisement to identify information that may be relevant to the user. For example the conversation analysis module may identify products or services mentioned by the audience in responses. The conversation analysis module may also determine whether a conversational advertisement successfully engaged an audience. In some implementations it bases this determination on the number of responses that an advertisement elicits from the audience. The conversation analysis module stores data related to the audience in an audience data storage area and data related to an advertisement or conversation in the conversation data storage area .

One application for the conversational advertising system is for advertising to an audience through a verbal conversation with the audience. is a flow diagram of a process implemented by the conversational advertising system for engaging an audience in a conversational advertisement. At a block the conversational advertising system receives an indication to commence the presentation of a conversational advertisement to an audience.

The indication to commence the presentation of the conversational advertisement may be received from a web page an application the audience or the like. For example an Internet radio application may have a commercial break and may send a request to the conversational advertising system for a conversational advertisement to be conveyed to an audience during the break. In some implementations a computing device that presents the conversational advertisement may include an agent. The agent may be part of a conversational advertising system on the device or it may exist as a separate plug in or add on to the device. In some implementations the agent is an application. The agent may be run as a silent process on the computing device or it may be noticeable to the audience. The agent receives input and may automatically generate an indication to commence a presentation of a conversational advertisement. The input received by the agent may include data existing on the computing device. For example the agent may search calendar entries stored on the computing device and generate an indication to commence a presentation of a conversational advertisement if it identifies a calendar entry that is related to a conversational advertisement stored in a database of conversational advertisements. In some implementations the agent parses a user s input to the device generates an indication to commence the presentation of a conversational advertisement based on the user s input. For example the agent may generate the indication to commence the presentation of a conversational advertisement if it identifies that a text message drafted by a user includes content that is related to the advertisement.

At a block the conversational advertising system identifies information associated with the audience. The audience may be associated with an identifier such as an IP address cookie or similar identifier username account number or the like. The identifier may be anonymized using known means to obscure any personally identifiable information associated with individual audience members. The conversational advertising system may gather information related to the audience s previous use of the conversational advertising system such as responses received from the audience pertaining to previously presented conversational advertisements and it may identify this information based on an association between this information and the identifier associated with the audience. The conversational advertising system may also gather other data associated with the audience such as data related to purchases made by an audience member a search query submitted by an audience member an Internet browsing history of an audience member social networking profiles of audience members email messages sent and received by audience members and the like. In some implementations the conversational advertising system does not identify information associated with the audience.

At a block the conversational advertising system selects a conversational advertisement to deliver to the audience. The conversational advertising system may select an advertisement from a repository of conversational advertisements. In some implementations the conversational advertising system selects an advertisement based at least in part on which advertisement is likely to be relevant to the audience. The conversational advertising system may compare information associated with the audience to metadata associated with the advertisement to determine whether an advertisement is likely to be relevant to the audience. For example information associated with the audience may indicate that an audience member recently purchased rock climbing equipment. Metadata associated with an advertisement may indicate that the advertisement pertains to adventuresome or extreme sports. Accordingly the conversational advertising system may select the advertisement pertaining to extreme sports because it is likely relevant to the audience member who recently purchased rock climbing equipment.

At a block the conversational advertising system delivers the selected conversational advertisement so that it may be presented to the audience. The conversational advertising system may deliver the advertisement to the system device application or the like that requested that a conversational advertisement be commenced. For example a web browser of a mobile device may display a webpage that includes an embedded conversational advertisement. The conversational advertising system may transfer data pertaining to a conversational advertisement to the web browser. This data may include for example audio data that is played to the audience as part of the advertisement. In some implementations a conversational advertisement is presented concurrently with other content. For example a game being played on a mobile device may present a conversational advertisement during gameplay. In other implementations an application or another process or other content is paused or terminated in order to present a conversational advertisement.

The conversational advertisement may be associated with a script. The conversational advertising system follows the script in order to engage the audience in a conversation. is a representative script that may be associated with a conversational advertisement. The script includes a first question that is automatically asked to the audience upon commencement of the conversational advertisement. In some implementations when the conversational advertising system delivers the selected conversational advertisement at block the conversational advertising system delivers audio data representing synthesized speech of a first line of a script. In other implementations the conversational advertising system does not deliver a first line and instead invites the audience to commence the conversation. For example the conversational advertising system may play a graphic that states Tell me your name and wait for a response from the audience.

At a decision block the conversational advertising system determines whether a response to the conversational advertisement has been received. If a response has been received the process proceeds to a block and the conversational advertising system processes the response. If the response has not been received the process proceeds to a decision block and the conversational advertising system determines whether a threshold amount of time has elapsed since the audience was presented with the conversational advertisement. If the threshold amount of time has not elapsed since the audience was presented with the conversational advertisement the process returns to decision block . If the threshold amount of time has elapsed the process proceeds to a block and the conversational advertising system repeats a portion of the conversation. For example referring to if the conversational advertising system had delivered audio data representing synthesized speech of the first question the conversational advertising system may repeat the first question . After repeating the portion of the conversation the process returns to block .

At block the conversational advertising system processes the audience s response. In some implementations the conversational advertising system converts audio data representing an audience s response to a text string and compares the text string and associated synonyms of words from the text string to a list of expected keywords and synonyms thereof . For example the script identifies three keywords that it expects to receive from an audience in response to the first question . The script also includes a not recognized keyword placeholder for when the conversational advertising system does not recognize any expected keyword in the response from the audience. In some implementations processing an audience s response includes applying text analytics and or natural language processing or other text analysis strategies to the response.

At a block the conversational advertising system identifies an appropriate response to the audience s response. The conversational advertising system may identify an appropriate response by following the script associated with the conversational advertisement. For example the script includes first responses that are associated with the first keywords respectively. If an audience s response included the first keyword Yes which is associated with the first response the conversational advertising system identifies the first response as the appropriate response to the audience s response. In some implementations an appropriate response is chosen based at least in part on information pertaining to the audience. For example the response may be associated with the first keyword Sporting goods and any response not equivalent to Home furnishings if the audience is determined to be fewer than 23 years old.

At a block the conversational advertising system delivers to the audience the response to the audience s response. The conversational advertising system may deliver audio data that includes synthesized speech representing the response to the audience s response. For example returning again to the conversational advertising system may synthesize speech representing the first response and it may deliver audio data of the synthesized speech to be played to the audience. In some implementations the conversational advertising system modifies a response before delivering it to the audience. For example information may be added to a response that is identified based on information about the audience. In response includes a bracketed phrase stating Don t forget to sign up for the local 3 on 3 tournament happening this summer. This phrase is added to the response after the conversational advertising system identifies the hometown of the audience.

The conversational advertising system may follow the advertisement script to converse with the audience back and forth many times. Hence the process proceeds to a block and the conversational advertising system determines whether a response was received from the audience. This step in the process involves a similar process as that which was described above with respect to block . Additionally at blocks and the process is similar to the process described above with respect to blocks and respectively. However at block the conversational advertising system may be deeper in the advertisement script. For example referring again to in response to the first response the conversational advertising system anticipates second keywords . Accordingly the description above pertaining to blocks and is applicable as well to blocks and .

At a decision block the conversational advertising system determines whether an action should be taken in light of the audience s response. If the audience s response does not elicit an action the process returns to block and the conversational advertising system identifies an appropriate response to the response from the audience. If the audience s response does include an action to take the process proceeds to a block and the conversational advertising system transfers instructions to the appropriate software or hardware module to execute the action. For example referring to if in response to a third response the audience s response includes an action keyword Online the conversational advertising system outputs instructions for executing the action which includes opening a web browser and connecting to an online store. Finally the process returns.

A conversational advertisement may include a graphical interface that is presented to an audience. are representative interfaces that are displayed by a mobile device and depict the presentation of a conversational advertisement to an audience. shows an interface that includes an advertising graphic and a first line of a conversational advertisement. The mobile device plays audio of the first line which is audible to the audience of the conversational advertisement. The advertising graphic is associated with the conversational advertisement and provides an indication to the audience that a conversational advertisement has commenced. In some implementations a conversational advertisement includes graphical elements such as the advertising graphic and the first line . In some implementations a conversational advertisement does not include any graphical elements.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the actual implementation of a data storage area may take a variety of forms and the phrase data storage area is used herein in the generic sense to refer to any area that allows data to be stored in a structured and accessible fashion using such applications or constructs as databases tables linked lists arrays and so on. Those skilled in the art will further appreciate that the depicted flow charts may be altered in a variety of ways. For example the order of the blocks may be rearranged blocks may be performed in parallel blocks may be omitted or other blocks may be included.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description of examples of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative implementations may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed or implemented in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the invention. Some alternative implementations of the invention may include not only additional elements to those implementations noted above but also may include fewer elements.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers and the assignee s U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 601 004 filed Jun. 14 2010 and Ser. No. 12 565 916 filed Sep. 24 2009 are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further implementations of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

To reduce the number of claims certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms but the applicant contemplates the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the invention is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. sec. 112 sixth paragraph other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for but use of the term for in any other context is not intended to invoke treatment under 35 U.S.C. 112 6. Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to pursue additional claims after filing this application to pursue such additional claim forms in either this application or in a continuing application.

