---

title: Methods for compact modeling of circuit stages for static timing analysis of integrated circuit designs
abstract: Systems, apparatus, and methods of timing analysis with a multi-operating region gate model are disclosed, including modeling a logic gate with a constant direct current (DC) voltage source during a steady state region of operation; in response to a transition from the steady state region of operation, modeling the logic gate with a time-varying voltage dependent current source during a varying current region of operation; and, in response to a transition from the variable current region of operation, modeling the logic gate with a time-invariant voltage dependent current source during an asymptotic region of operation. Instantaneous output current provided by the time varying voltage dependent current source in the VCR region is responsive to time and the instantaneous output voltage of the logic gate. Instantaneous output current provided by the time-invariant voltage dependent current source in the AR region is responsive to the instantaneous output voltage of the logic gate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615725&OS=08615725&RS=08615725
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08615725
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120605
---
This patent application is a divisional and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 269 037 filed on Nov. 11 2008 by inventors Igor Keller et al. entitled COMPACT MODELING OF CIRCUIT STAGES FOR STATIC TIMING ANALYSIS OF INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGNS now allowed.

The embodiments of the invention relate generally to integrated circuit design software tools such as static timing analysis software tools and signal integrity analysis software tools for designing integrated circuits.

Electronic computer aided design ECAD software tools for static timing analysis STA may be used to estimate timing delays in an electronic circuit design such as electronic circuit designs that may be found in integrated circuit designs. With improved process technology smaller transistor channel lengths have become available to increase the number of electronic circuits and functionality that can be designed into an integrated circuit.

However with a greater number of circuits and functionality greater demands are placed on the ECAD software tools to simulate the designs in a timely manner. Methods to more quickly simulate an integrated circuit design can increase design efficiency and possibly reduce the time to market of an integrated circuit.

Briefly however in accordance with one embodiment of the invention a multi operating region gate model is disclosed that operates over three different operating regions a steady state region SSR a varying current region VCR and an asymptotic region AR . The multi operating region gate model generally models each different region by a different current source or current source model. In the steady state region the output current is substantially zero so it may be considered an open circuit or a current source with zero current. A current source model may be used to model the varying current region VCR of operation and may be referred to as a time varying voltage dependent current source. The time varying voltage dependent current source in the VCR region generates an instantaneous output current in response to both time and instantaneous output voltage of the circuit cell stage. A current source model used in modeling the asymptotic region AR of operation may also be referred to as a time invariant voltage dependent current source. In the AR region the time invariant voltage dependent current source generates an instantaneous output current in response to the instantaneous output voltage of the circuit cell stage substantially without regard to time. The multi operating region gate model may also generally be thought of modeling each different region with a different voltage source in response to an active transition of its output due to a switching input.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding. However it will be obvious to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments of the invention.

At the graph level of abstraction the software tool works with the entire circuit design as a design graph. The graph level abstraction propagates quantities or metrics of interest from the inputs of the circuit design to the outputs of the circuit design. For example an STA tool may propagate arrival times throughout the circuit design.

At the net level of abstraction the STA software tool calculates quantities of interest for each of the nets in the design. While doing an SI analysis an SI analysis software tool may calculate the crosstalk glitch induced on a specific net.

At the shape level of abstraction the software tools work with information from the actual chip layout. The information may include device sizes and interconnect parasitics for example such as can be obtained from a parasitic extractor.

An electrical calculation engine component or delay calculator is provided for the net level abstraction layer of electrical analysis software tools.

Referring now to a block diagram of a multi operating region gate delay calculator is illustrated. The delay calculator may also be referred to herein as an electrical calculator. The delay calculator receives characterization data and a netlist and its underlying integrated circuit design data to generate timing delays e.g. max timing delay min timing delay including process sensitivities. The characterization data may be part of a cell library of logic cells.

The delay calculator includes an application programming interface API an interconnect reducer analysis engine a gate simulation engine and a multi operating region gate model coupled together as shown.

The interconnect reducer analysis engine receives the netlist including a defined interconnect of standard cells to reduce it down to a simplified model for use with the gate simulation engine . The interconnect reduction and analysis engine reduces the extracted parasitic network down to a simplified load model. Typically the extracted parasitic network corresponding to an output net can be very large. Since only the inputs and outputs of the net need to be monitored the interconnect network may be reduced to create a smaller electrically equivalent representation speeding up delay calculations while preserving the input to output electrical behavior of the net.

The multi operating region gate model described in further detail below receives the characterization data and models circuit cells stages in a given stage of a delay path. Circuit cell circuit stage and logic gate may be used interchangeably herein to refer to the same sub circuit device instantiated from a circuit cell library into an integrated circuit design.

The multi operating region gate model describes the electrical behavior of a standard cell in an abstract fashion in order to speed electrical calculations such as delay calculations noise delay calculations and sensitivity calculations. The parameters of the multi operating region gate model are usually derived by a library characterization process such as described below.

The gate simulation engine calculates the output waveform at the output of a given gate in response to the input stimulus as well as the multi operating region gate model and its parameters. A simplified load model e.g. a lumped load or a reduced order model load may be used to model the effect of the interconnect loading on the gate. A noise model may also be used to model noise from aggressors in the circuit cell or stage.

The parameters for each circuit cell corresponding to the multi operating region gate model are typically stored in a cell library. IC netlist design data may stored in some form in a data base. One or more application programming interfaces API interact with the library and the design data to read information there from. Another one or more APIs may be used by graph level engines operating at the graph level on the netlist to determine delays along data paths for example to call the delay calculator and obtain the timing results of the calculations at each gate along a graphed path.

Referring now to a block diagram of a portion of an exemplary netlist including a plurality of delay paths DP DPi from D flip flops latches registers A B multiplexed into a D flip flop latch register C by a multiplexer . The delay calculator may be used to compute the timing delays through the delay paths between the D flip flops latches registers A B and the D flip flop latch register C.

Each of the delay paths DP DPi may have various circuit stages or circuit cells coupled in series. A first delay path DP includes a single circuit stage Stage. A second delay path DP includes two circuit stages Stage and Stage. A third delay path DP includes M circuit stages Stage through StageM. An idelay path Dpi includes N circuit stages Stage through StageN.

The multi operating region gate model used in the delay calculator may also be referred to as a cell level robust electrical analysis model CREAM model . The multi operating region gate model treats each circuit cell stage in the abstract such as a block box with input pins and output pins.

Referring momentarily to voltage waveform diagrams A and current waveform diagrams B for a multi operating region gate model are illustrated. A multi operating region gate model operates over three different regions a steady state region SSR a varying current region VCR and an asymptotic region AR . The multi operating region gate model generally models each different region by a different current source or current source model. The multi operating region gate model may also generally be thought of modeling each different region of operation with a different voltage source in addition to the different current sources in response to an active transition of its output due to a switching input.

The current source model used in modeling the steady state region SSR of operation may be an open circuit or a current source with a high impedance level because the instantaneous output current during the steady state region of operation is substantially zero for digital circuits. The voltage source model modeling the SSR region of operation may be a direct current DC voltage source with a steady state voltage level to hold the output thereto. Thus the instantaneous output voltage of the multi region gate model is a steady state level during the time within the SSR region.

The instantaneous output current and the instantaneous output voltage are respectively a level of output current and a level of output voltage at instants of time. As shown in when transitioning between operating regions and or over time the level of output current and the level of output voltage at instants of time respectively the instantaneous output current and the instantaneous output voltage can vary.

The current source model used in modeling a varying current region VCR of operation may also be referred to as a time varying voltage dependent current source. The time varying voltage dependent current source generates an instantaneous output current in response to both time and instantaneous output voltage of the circuit cell stage in the VCR region of operation. The current source model used in an asymptotic region AR of operation may also be referred to as a time invariant voltage dependent current source. The time invariant voltage dependent current source generates an instantaneous output current in response to the instantaneous output voltage of the circuit cell stage in the AR region of operation substantially without regard to time.

The steady state region occurs when the input voltage is a steady state or direct current DC voltage V at a high logic level or a low logic level from time zero to time t. The direct current DC voltage Vmay also be referred to as a steady state voltage level. The input voltage Vstarts changing at time t which may also be referred to herein at the offset time t to begin the varying current region VCR .

A cutoff time tends the varying current region VCR and begins the asymptotic region AR . In cutoff time tis the same for each of the curves and even though they were characterized for different output capacitance loads because they were characterized with the same input slew rate for the input voltage Vi. For a different input slew rate the cutoff time twill differ. The asymptotic region AR continues infinitely on in time. However a simulation termination criteria may be used to terminate the characterization period at a simulation termination time t. The simulation termination criteria for example may be a level of percentage change in output current or output voltage over a time period. Other criteria may be used instead to terminate the simulation of the circuit cell stage for the given input logic change and return it to a steady state region. Even though the AR region is characterized using a transient simulation from the cutoff time to the simulation termination time the computed output current as a function of output voltage I V is valid for any time point within the AR region.

In the VCR operating region the output current and the output small signal admittance vary strongly with time. The output current is a function of both time and output voltage I I t V . The VCR region may also be referred to as the time varying region. The VCR region is characterized by a grid of a plurality of time points for which output voltage output current and small signal output admittance are recorded for different output capacitance loads V I V g V k 1 . . . K where K is the total number of loads for each given slew rate of the input voltage as illustrated by the plurality of two dimensional tables illustrated in .

The cutoff time may vary with variances in the input slew rate and change the response in the VCR region. However after the cutoff time it has been observed that the output current follows a DC like time invariant behavior in the AR region. That is for time t t the output current I V becomes substantially a function of output voltage without regard to time. The cutoff time is a time boundary between the variable current region of operation and the asymptotic region of operation of the circuit cell. The plurality of two dimensional tables illustrated in illustrate different time points tfor each table in response to the input slew rate. The last time point t in each table of is the cut off time that will differ from table to table with a different input slew rate.

The cutoff time does not necessarily occur at a time point where the input transition becomes a steady state level such as at the positive power supply voltage VDD or ground. With multi stage gates the cutoff time may be both before or after the time when an input stabilizes to its steady state.

In the AR operating region without regard to time and input voltage slew rate the output current can be represented as a function of output voltage alone I I V . The AR region may also be referred to as the time invariant region. The AR region is characterized by an asymptotic transition AT for which output voltage output current small signal output admittance are recorded at Z time points t V I g for one or two different output capacitance loads regardless of the slew rate of the input voltage as illustrated by the table of . The table of of Z time points t V I g represents an asymptotic current voltage curve within the AR region. Output voltage responses for different lumped capacitive loads may be constructed from a known asymptotic transition AT by means of stretching scaling as is illustrated by the table of .

With a capacitance load Ccoupled to the output pin an autonomous time independent Kirkoff Current Law KCL equation may be written as

While a number of values are stored to represent the VCR region in detail the cutoff time tthat defines the beginning of the AR region cuts off the detailed storage requirements to represent the multi operating region gate model. The AR region of the multi operating region gate model can be simply represented by a couple of tables regardless of input slew and output capacitive load. Thus the multi operating region gate model is a compact model that increases computer efficiency.

If in a lookup mode the right hand side schematic block diagram of the multi operating region gate model illustrated in are used with a lumped capacitive load C. In a lookup mode the output voltage Vor V of a circuit cell stage may be more directly determined as the lumped capacitive load Cis known. If in a simulation mode the left hand side schematic block diagrams of the multi operating region gate model illustrated in are used with a distributed parasitic load RC. The output current Ior I is determined from the model for a distributed parasitic load RC. Note that Cmay refer herein to either the capacitance of the RCor C. The output voltage of the stage may then be calculated with the distributed interconnect and parasitic load RCusing state space equations in response to the output current. Thus with values of each being stored the multi operating region gate model can be readily used to quickly determine either output voltage or output current as the need arises.

In the steady state region SSR for the multi operating region gate model the input voltage Vor V is substantially at a high DC voltage such as the positive power supply voltage VDD or a low DC voltage level. In response to the steady state input voltage the output current Ior I is substantially zero and the output voltage Vor V is either substantially at a high voltage level such as the positive power supply voltage VDD or a low voltage level such as the negative power supply voltage VSS ground or zero volts . If the number of logic inversions in a path are odd the output voltage Vor V will be the opposite of the input voltage Vor V . If the number of logic inversions in a path from input to output are odd e.g. 1 3 5 etc. the output voltage Vor V will be substantially the opposite of the input voltage V or V . This is represented by the values of Vdd and 0 in the steady state table illustrated in under the output voltage column V . If the number of logic inversions in a path from input to output are even e.g. 2 4 6 etc. the output voltage Vor V will be the substantially the same as the input voltage Vor V . This is represented by the values of 0 and Vdd in the steady state table illustrated in under the output voltage column V.

The multi operating region gate model is characterized from a blackbox view of a standard circuit cell stage. Each standard circuit cell stage of a standard cell library are characterized to generate a new standard cell library as part of a library characterization design flow. The new standard cell library including circuit cells stages characterized with the multi operating region gate model may be used in timing and noise analyses during IC design implementation and IC design sign off.

Generally the multi operating region gate model for the VCR region is a time and output voltage variant current source model. For the VCR region it may include multiple sets of two dimensional tables such as those in each being a three dimensional table one set for output current I t v with a table for each input slew rate . Alternatively the multiple sets of tables including one for each input slew rate may be compacted into a single set of two dimensional tables such as that shown in . The number of input slew rates may be on the order of ten for example.

Generally the multi operating region gate model for the AR region is a time invariant current model. For the AR region it may include a cutoff time table t as a function of slew rate small signal admittance G and a time invariant current table Io v .

The model includes a list of lumped capacitive loads and a list of input slews used to characterize each circuit cell stage. For each input slew the model further includes a list of time points defining the time grid in the VCR region and the cutoff time defining the range of the VCR region separating it from the AR region. If the output voltage Vis fixed to a constant value in the VCR region the output current depends upon time. At each time point in the VCR region for each input slew and output load a list of triple data points output voltage Vo output current Io and small signal admittance g are recorded. In the AR region the asymptotic I V curve is characterized by a list of t V I G at points Z.

The input pin capacitance C V Cload a function of input voltage capacitive load and possibly input slew is characterized in both the AR region and the VCR region.

Generally to characterize multi operating region gate model the voltage and current waveforms at inputs and outputs of the standard circuit cell stage are observed to generate lookup tables for the VCR operating region and the AR operating region A . However the data needed for representing the output responses can be reduced to provide a more compact model.

Transient simulations are performed on each cell of a cell library using a SPICE Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis transistor circuit simulator. Each cell of a cell library is instantiated in a SPICE deck multiple times with each instance driving a different lumped load. The multiple SPICE decks may be concurrently simulated together by a SPICE simulator so that voltages and currents at various time points predefined by the time grid and or internally used by circuit simulator are measured. The concurrent SPICE simulation of multiple SPICE decks of each circuit cell allows currents to be measured at different voltages at the same time. Additionally with all capacitance loads being simulated with SPICE concurrently the time to simulate each cell is less so that it is more efficiently characterized. Moreover as currents and voltages are measured at the same time points in the time grid in a unified manner simulation is less costly and can be robust.

The time points from the device level simulation internally used by the circuit simulator may be pruned. The data may be stored in a cell library using liberty extension .lib format. Additionally data may be pruned at time points when the output current at a fixed voltage is a constant. In this manner the data representing the multi operating region gate model in a cell library may be compacted.

In characterizing the VCR region detailed data is stored up to the cutoff time t. After the cutoff time t detailed data points for output current I t t v small signal admittance and output voltage Vas a function of time is no longer needed with the AR region being characterized. This makes it possible to compact the data stored to represent the multi operating region gate model significantly.

In the AR region the asymptotic transition may be fully captured by measuring time voltage and current values for one or two very large output capacitive loads. After the input transition saturates the asymptotic transition can be used to accurately construct the portion of the output response in the AR region.

Referring now to a flow chart diagram generally illustrating a method for characterizing the multi operating region gate model of each circuit cell stage of a cell library. The process begins at block and goes to block .

At block for each input slew rate the cutoff time is determined to define the VCR and AR operating regions for the circuit cell stage. The process then goes to block .

At block the circuit cell stage is characterized for the VCR operating region. The process then goes to block .

At block the circuit cell stage is characterized for the AR operating region. The process then goes to block .

Alternatively the AR and VCR operating regions may be characterized concurrently parallel together or the AR operating region may be characterized first with the VCR operating region characterized there after.

At block the characterization results are stored into tables of a cell library associated with the circuit cell stage. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if there are any further circuit cells stages to characterize. If not the process goes to block . If so the process loops back and goes to block .

At block the next circuit cell stage is selected for characterization. The process then goes back to repeat block .

Referring now to and each circuit cell stage of a cell library is characterized for cutoff times of the multi operating region gate model. illustrates a schematic block diagram to characterize the cutoff time. illustrates a table of cutoff times for the multi stage operating region gate model in response to various input voltage slew rates. illustrates a flow chart diagram for each circuit cell stage to characterize the cutoff time of the multi operating region gate model.

At block a constant voltage supply is applied to the output of the circuit cell stage under test to hold the output voltage Vo midway between the positive power supply voltage VDD and the negative power supply voltage GND e.g. zero volts or one half of the positive power supply voltage VDD. The process then goes to block .

At block an input ramp voltage Vi is applied to the input of the circuit cell stage with the given predetermined input voltage slew rate and the output current from the circuit cell stage into the constant voltage supply is measured. The process then goes to block .

At block after the input ramp voltage Vi reaches a steady state e.g. the positive power supply voltage VDD or negative power supply voltage zero volts the cutoff time is determined from the start of the input ramp voltage tto the time when the output current insubstantially changes after the input ramp voltage reaches the steady state. The process goes to block .

At block the measured time is stored in the table of as the cutoff time for the given slew rate. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if there is any further input voltage slew rate for which the cutoff time is to be characterized. If so the process goes to block . If not the process goes to block .

At block the next input voltage slew rate is selected and the process loops back to block and repeats the loop.

Referring now to and each circuit cell stage of a cell library is characterized for the VCR operating region of the multi operating region gate model. illustrates a schematic block diagram to characterize the VCR operating region of the multi operating region gate model. respectively illustrate three dimensional tables of output voltage output current and small signal admittance for the VCR region of the multi stage operating region gate model in response to various input voltage slew rates and output capacitive loads. illustrates a flow chart diagram for each circuit cell stage to characterize the VCR region of the multi stage operating region gate model.

In the characterization of the VCR region begins with blocks A B for the given circuit cell stage. The process then goes to block .

At block a time grid is setup for characterizing e.g. sampling output voltage and output current the given circuit cell stage at time steps within the VCR operating region. illustrates a time grid with time steps from tto tin the VCR region after the offset time t for example. While the time grid in the VCR region appears to be a uniform grid with equal time steps the grid may be non uniform as well with unequal time steps. Whether uniform or non uniform the same time grid is to be used to characterize each circuit cell of the cell library. The process goes to block .

At block the next input slew rate for the input ramp voltage Vi is selected that is to be applied to the input terminal. The process then goes to block .

At block the next capacitance load Cfor the output terminal is selected. The process then goes to block .

At block the selected input voltage ramp is applied to the input terminal and the output capacitance load is applied to the output terminal and a transient simulation e.g. SPICE simulation is performed from the start of the ramp to the cutoff time. The process goes to block .

At block A for each time step of the time grid the output voltage V t across the output capacitance load is measured and the output current I V t into the output capacitance load is measured. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if there are further output capacitance loads to be simulated to characterize the cell stage. If so the process loops back to process block . If there are no further output capacitance loads to be simulated the process goes to process block .

At block a determination is made if there are further input slew rates to be simulated to characterize the cell stage. If so the process loops back to process block . If not the process goes to block .

Referring now to and the small signal admittance is characterized in the VCR region. The process begins with block B and goes to block .

At block a time grid is setup for characterizing e.g. sampling output voltage and output current the given circuit cell stage at time steps within the VCR operating region. illustrates a time grid with time steps from tto tin the VCR region after the offset time t for example. While the time grid in the VCR region appears to be a uniform grid with equal time steps the grid may be non uniform as well with unequal time steps. Whether uniform or non uniform the same time grid is to be used to characterize each circuit cell of the cell library. The process goes to block .

At block the next input slew rate for the input ramp voltage Vi is selected that is to be applied to the input terminal. The process then goes to block .

At block the next capacitance load Cfor the output terminal is selected. The process then goes to block .

At block the selected input voltage ramp is applied to the input terminal and the output capacitance load is applied to the output terminal and a transient simulation e.g. SPICE simulation is performed from the start of the ramp to the cutoff time. The process goes to block .

At block a small perturbation current is applied by a constant current source coupled to the output terminal in parallel with the output capacitance load. It is expected that the small perturbation current slightly alters the output voltage and output current from the circuit cell stage than without. The process then goes to block B.

At block B for each time step of the time grid the output voltage V t across the output capacitance load is measured and the output current from the circuit cell stage is measured. The process then goes to block .

At block a ratio g between the difference in measured output current from blocks A B and the difference in measured output voltage from blocks A B is determined to generate the small signal admittance for the given output load and input slew rate for the given time step.

At block a determination is made if there are further output capacitance loads to be simulated to characterize the cell stage. If so the process loops back to process block . If there are no further output capacitance loads to be simulated the process goes to process block .

At block a determination is made if there are further input slew rates to be simulated to characterize the cell stage. If so the process loops back to process block . If not the process goes to block .

In the characterization process elements of the VCR may be performed in parallel in one transient simulation by including a plurality of SPICE decks with a plurality of circuit cells stages with the combination of different input slew rates different output capacitance loads and with without the perturbation current. Furthermore small signal admittance in the AR region may be similarly characterized using transient simulations with and without a perturbation current. However a single output capacitance load and a single input voltage slew rate may be used to determine the small signal admittance by determining the ratio g between the difference in measured output current over the difference in output voltage.

Referring now to and each circuit cell stage of a cell library is characterized for the AR operating region of the multi operating region gate model. illustrates a schematic block diagram to characterize the AR operating region of the multi operating region gate model. illustrates a table including time output voltage output current and small signal admittance for the AR region of the multi stage operating region gate model in response to a capacitive load. illustrates a flow chart diagram for each circuit cell stage to characterize the AR region of the multi stage operating region gate model.

For simulation times greater than the cutoff time t t the output current is a function of output voltage I v . During characterization the output current small signal admittance and output capacitance are obtained directly from measurements rather than being computed numerically from voltage responses. Direct measurement is numerically more robust than making numerical computations to obtain model values. The AR region may be characterized in a couple of ways.

In one method of characterization for the AR region is illustrated. The AR characterization process begins at block A and goes to block .

At block a voltage grid of voltage steps in the AR region is formed. illustrates a voltage grid of voltage steps Vto Vin the AR region for example. While the voltage grid in the AR region appears to be a uniform grid with equal voltage steps the voltage grid may be non uniform as well with unequal voltage steps. Whether uniform or non uniform the same voltage grid is to be used to characterize each circuit cell of the cell library. The voltage grid of voltage steps will be used throughout to measure current and time for a given circuit cell stage. For example a voltage grid may vary from a high level voltage e.g. the positive power supply voltage to a low voltage level e.g. zero volts . The voltage steps may be ten tenths of the positive power supply voltage VDD nine tenths of the positive power supply voltage 0.9 VDD eight tenths of the positive power supply voltage 0.8 VDD . . . and one tenth of the positive power supply voltage 0.1 VDD . After establishing the voltage grid the process then goes to bock .

At block a first large reference capacitance load is applied to the output of the given circuit cell stage. The process then goes to block .

At block an input voltage source Vi is applied to the input of the circuit cell stage having a small input voltage slew rate to quickly transition the input from a low level e.g. negative power supply level zero volts to a high level e.g. positive power supply level VDD or from a high level to a low level depending upon what causes the output to transition. The process then goes in parallel to blocks A and .

At block a constant current source is coupled to the output terminal to apply a perturbation current to the circuit cell stage as shown in . The process then goes to block B.

At blocks A B a transient AC simulation is performed on the circuit cell stage extending well beyond the cutoff time into the AR region of the circuit cell stage. The process goes to blocks A B where measurements are to be taken.

At blocks A B at voltage steps of a voltage grid time points are measured to reach each voltage step and output currents out from the circuit cell stage are measured at each voltage step for the voltage grid in the AR region. The measurements may be stored into two tables as shown by with non linear interpolation being used to generate an appropriate table of values for a given output load. Alternatively the measurements may be stored in a single table such as shown by . The measured time points may be normalized by the capacitive load that was applied time divided by the first reference capacitance load or the second reference capacitance load . This enables the measured time points to be properly compared. After the measuring time and output current on the voltage grid the process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made as to whether or not the given circuit cell stage of a library has been simulated with two output capacitance loads to characterize the circuit cell stage in the AR region. If not the process goes to block . If so the process goes to block .

At block a second large reference capacitance load e.g. twice the first large reference capacitance load is applied to the output of the given circuit cell stage. The process then loops back to block and repeats steps A A and .

At block the small signal admittance g is determined for the circuit cell stage in the AR region. The small signal admittance g may be determined from a ratio of the difference in measured output current e.g. perturbed output current at voltage step 1 V less non perturbed output current at voltage step 2 V over a difference in output voltage between the perturbed and non perturbed simulations.

In an alternate method of characterization of a circuit cell stage for the AR region is illustrated. The alternate AR characterization process begins at block B and goes to block .

At block a voltage grid of voltage steps in the AR region is formed. The voltage grid of voltage steps will be used throughout to measure current and time for a given circuit cell stage. For example a voltage grid may vary from a high level voltage e.g. the positive power supply voltage to a low voltage level e.g. zero volts . The voltage steps may be ten tenths of the positive power supply voltage VDD nine tenths of the positive power supply voltage 0.9 VDD eight tenths of the positive power supply voltage 0.8 VDD . . . and one tenth of the positive power supply voltage 0.1 VDD . After establishing the voltage grid the process then goes to bock A.

At block A a constant voltage source is applied to the input of the circuit cell stage to hold the input voltage Vi to a final steady state level e.g. positive power supply level VDD or negative power supply level zero volts . The process then goes to block A.

At block A a first voltage source is applied to the output and a direct current DC simulation is performed on the circuit cell stage with the output voltage being swept from a low voltage level to a high voltage level or from the high voltage level to the low voltage level with the input voltage set to the final steady state level such as shown by . The process then goes to block A where measurements are to be taken during the output voltage sweep.

At block A at voltage steps Vof the voltage grid time is measured to reach each voltage step and output current I without perturbation is measured out of the circuit cell stage at each voltage step. The process then goes to block .

At block a stair step voltage source a second voltage source differing from the first is coupled to the output terminal as shown in to apply at least one perturbation voltage step to the circuit cell stage. The voltage steps of the voltage grid in the AR region may be referred to as grid voltage steps to distinguish from perturbation voltage steps. The at least one perturbation voltage step has a voltage level near a voltage level of a grid voltage step. That is the perturbation voltage steps are slightly offset from the voltage steps of the voltage grid such as shown by the waveform for the grid voltage steps V e.g. 100 mv 200 mv and the output voltage waveform for the perturbation voltage steps V e.g. 101 mv 201 mv The process then goes to block B.

At block B a constant voltage source is applied to the input of the circuit cell stage to hold the input voltage Vi to a final steady state level e.g. positive power supply level VDD or negative power supply level zero volts . The process then goes to block B.

At block B with the perturbation voltage being applied at perturbed voltage steps by the stair step voltage source a direct current DC simulation is executed to find the modified output current I. associated with the perturbed voltage steps V. The process then goes to block B

At block B the modified output current Iis measured out of the circuit cell stage at each perturbed voltage step applied by the applied perturbation voltage source.

At block the small signal admittance g is determined for the circuit cell stage in the AR region. The small signal admittance g may be determined from the perturbed and non perturbed DC simulations by taking a ratio of the difference in measured output current e.g. modified output current Iat a perturbed voltage step Vless the output current Imeasured at a corresponding voltage step Vof the voltage grid without the perturbed voltage step over a difference in the output voltage e.g. the difference between the perturbation voltage step provided by the stair step voltage and the voltage step of the voltage grid . For example the grid voltage steps of the voltage grid may be every 100 millivolts mv such as 100 mv and 200 mv while the perturbation voltage steps of the stair step voltage source may be 101 mv and 201 mv respectively. The following equation is representative of finding the small signal admittance for the circuit cell stage in the AR region 

The computations for small signal admittance may be stored in both tables of or the lone table of . The process then goes to block .

The input pin capacitance of each circuit cell stage for both the VCR region and the AR region can be characterized by known techniques.

The multi operating region gate model may be used with a delay calculator to analyze the timing of a circuit cell stage in a signal path of an integrated circuit. The multi operating region gate model for a give circuit cell stage is read from a cell library data base and loaded into memory to be used for delay calculations. The delay may be computed by solving a set of ordinary differential equations with a nonlinear current source being defined by the multi operating region gate model. The current and it s derivatives determined by the multi operating region gate model are physically sound allowing for fast and accurate calculations. The robust current values also allow for accurate noise calculation.

With a distributed load the output voltage response of a circuit in the VCR operating region may be determined by numerically solving state space equations using the output current generated by a current source as a function of time and voltage up until the cutoff time. In the AR operating region outside the VCR operating region with simulation time past the cutoff time the output current is asymptotic as a function of voltage regardless of the simulation time. The voltage response may be determined by numerically solving state space equations using the asymptotic output current generated by a current source as a function output voltage. In the VCR region the output current Iand the small signal admittance G may be interpolated with regards to time and voltage.

With a lumped load the output voltage response may be looked up and interpolated from tables characterizing the waveform responses. In the AR operating region outside the VCR operating region with simulation time past the cutoff time the output current is asymptotic as a function of voltage regardless of simulation time past the cutoff time. A table representing a response curve in the AR region may scaled to match the output loading of a given circuit cell stage. In the AR region the output response can be determined with little loss of accuracy from the asymptotic transition using an appropriate stretching of time values.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method of delay calculation of timing arcs in a circuit cell block of a stage using a look up mode or a simulation mode for the multi operating region gate model of the circuit cell block stage.

In an exemplary stage is illustrated for which a delay calculation may be made. Each stage of a circuit may have a logic gate such as a buffer or driver with some interconnect to couple the output of the driver to one or more receiving logic gates such as an inverters . The exemplary stage includes a driver and a distributed load network including parasitic resistances Rp and parasitic capacitances Cp coupled to two receivers .

In operation the driver receives an input signal vi and drives an output signal onto the net . The signal on the net is propagated through the interconnect network to respective input nodes of receivers . It will be appreciated that in order to avoid obscuring this disclosure in unnecessary detail only a single interconnect network is shown driven by a single driver connected to two receivers although several drivers interconnect networks with more than one or more receivers may be implemented.

The delay calculation through a stage may be affected by the input slew rate of the input signal vi. In one embodiment rising edge slew rate may be defined as time required for a rising signal to transition from 20 of supply voltage Vdd to 80 of Vdd divided by 0.6. Similarly the falling edge slew rate may be defined in one embodiment as time required for a falling signal to transition from 80 of Vdd to 20 of Vdd divided by 0.6.

Each stage of a circuit may be modeled for delay calculations to reduce the run time in determining timing delays in delay paths.

With little or no parasitic resistance the interconnect network and the input load of a receiving gate may be modeled by lumping the capacitances together into a lumped capacitive load coupled to the output of the multi operating region gate model . With a lumped capacitive load a lookup analysis mode may be used with the multi operating region gate model.

The delay of each stage is computed inside a loop over cell timing arcs or edges of a timing or design graph and included into the full timing delay that may be passed on to a static timing analysis tool. The delay calculation is performed by a delay calculator in such a way that the timing delay of logic gates and interconnect of each stage are computed concurrently together.

To compute delay the delay SI calculator in works on a net level abstraction. It deals with computing the signal propagation delay through each edge or timing arc of a design or timing graph. Typically the computation is performed for a set of related edges where all the edges are formed based on a cell driving a net. The set of related edges is often referred to as a stage. The delay SI calculator creates an electrical view of a stage and then computes all required electrical calculations on this stage by performing appropriate electrical simulations.

Referring now to an exemplary portion of a design or timing graph a subgraph corresponding to a circuit stage is illustrated. The subgraph and the overall timing graph includes a driver based timing arc associated with a driver and interconnect based timing arcs A B collectively timing arcs associated with the interconnect network and capacitance input pin load from each driver to each input of the receivers . Complete signal paths from a first input pin of a first stage to a second input pin of a second stage may be analyzed for each circuit stage. illustrates two signal paths for example. A first signal path includes the driver based timing arc and the interconnect based timing arc A for example. A second signal path includes the driver based timing arc and the interconnect based timing arc B for example.

Referring now back to a delay calculation of the circuit stage may be made starting at block which then goes to block . Delay calculations of a circuit stage may be made using the multi operating region gate model in a look up mode or a simulation mode. The look up mode or simulation mode may be selected by a user.

At block a determination is made as to whether the look up mode or the simulation mode has been selected. If the look up mode has been selected the process goes to block . If the simulation mode has been selected the process goes to block .

At block assuming look up mode the interconnect network and the receiver input load is lumped into a single lumped capacitor load. The process then goes to block .

At block a lookup mode analysis of the circuit stage is performed to determine the output voltage waveform for each timing arc. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if there are further timing arcs to analyze. If there are further timing arcs to analyze the process loops back to block . If there are no further timing arcs to analyze the process goes to block .

At block assuming simulation mode the interconnect network and the receiver input load are reduced by RC reduction techniques to simplify the distributed parasitic load. U.S. Pat. No. 7 359 843 issued on Apr. 15 2008 to inventors Igor Keller et al. entitled ROBUST CALCULATION OF CROSSTALK DELAY CHANGE IN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN incorporated by reference generally describes RC reduction techniques.

For the timing arcs along each signal path such as timing arcs and A B state space equations are generated for the given circuit cell stage. With the reduced order model ROM of interconnect and the state space equations for the stage the process then goes to block .

At block a simulation mode analysis of the circuit cell stage is performed to determine the output voltage waveform for the timing arcs along each signal path of the stage. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if there are further timing arcs or signal paths to analyze. If there are further timing arcs to analyze the process loops back to block . If there are no further timing arcs to analyze the process goes to block .

At block assuming all timing arcs of the circuit stage have been analyzed by either the lookup method or the simulation method the process may end or go onto to process the next circuit cell stage in a delay path of the integrated circuit.

Referring now to details of a method of lookup mode analysis of the circuit cell stage using the multi operational gate model are illustrated. The first part of the output voltage transition is in the VCR region and may be determined by a two dimensional interpolation with respect to input voltage slew and output capacitance load. The second part of the output voltage transition also referred to as a tail is in the AR region and may be determined by stretching a stored characterization in the AR region with respect to output capacitance load and stitching it at the cutoff time to the final output voltage of the VCR region.

At block the input slew rate of the input voltage waveform vi to the given circuit stage is determined. As described previously in one embodiment a rising edge slew rate may be determined as the time required for a rising signal to transition from 20 of supply voltage Vdd to 80 of Vdd divided by 0.6. Similarly in one embodiment a falling edge slew rate may be determined from the time required for a falling signal to transition from 80 of Vdd to 20 of Vdd divided by 0.6. After determining the slew rate the process goes to block .

At block given the lumped capacitive load and input slew rate values for output voltage in the VCR region are interpolated from the three dimensional lookup table to determine output voltage responses for the given circuit stage operating in the VCR region. With the input slew rate determined from process block the three dimensional table can be interpolated for input slew rate into a two dimensional table. The two dimensional table can be further interpolated into a one dimensional table using the lumped capacitance load having output voltage values for each time step of the time grid. A cutoff output voltage value may be determined at the cutoff time a final time point in the time grid from the interpolated VCR table.

Referring to momentarily to output voltage response table representing characteristic curves in the VCR region were previously formed for the interpreted input slew rate of the input voltage signal with a time grid as illustrated. The time grid begins at an offset time tand ends at the cutoff time t. The output voltage response table representing characteristic curves in the VCR region may be further interpolated using the given lumped capacitive load. For example assuming the lumped capacitive load Cis between reference capacitance loads Cand Crepresented by curves in the VCR region an output voltage response curve may be generated by interpolation represented by the one dimensional table. As illustrated the cutoff output voltage Vmay be determined from the interpolated curve at the cutoff time t. Upon completion of the interpolated VCR table the process then goes to block of .

At block the time and output voltage values in the AR region are scaled in proportion to the ratio of lumped capacitive load to reference capacitance loads to obtain a stretched table of time e.g. t at grid voltage steps and output voltage values and then shifted in time e.g. t at grid voltage steps to properly stitch the AR response to the VCR response at the cutoff voltage and cutoff time .

Referring to a pair of asymptotic curves representing output voltage response tails in the AR region for different reference capacitance loads may be represented by a pair of tables such as those illustrated in of the single table of . For the actual lumped capacitance load Capplied to the circuit cell stage a linear interpolation of times with respect to capacitance loads may be performed to generate a time stretched curve A in the AR region. However the voltage of the time stretched curve A at the cutoff time tmay not match that of the response curve at the cutoff time t. The time stretched curve A is then shifted horizontally by a time shift tinto the AR response curve B so that its voltage at the cutoff time tmatches that of the response curve at the cutoff time t. The time shifting of the curve may also be referred to as curve stitching. The time stretching of the curve may also be referred to as curve scaling.

To linearly interpolate time to stretch scale a curve for a given capacitance load Clon the stage the following equation given the reference capacitance loads Cand C may be computed for each voltage point Vof the voltage grid in the AR characterization table 

To stitch the output voltage response in the AR region to the output voltage response in the VCR region the time stretched curve A may be cut at an initial voltage that matches the cutoff voltage at the cutoff time. The time stretched curve A may then be shifted in time by a time shift tso that the response from the VCR region to the AR region continues around the cutoff voltage level V. For each interpolated time t the time shift is applied to determined a response time t in the AR region associated with curve B by the following equation . After curve scaling time stretching and curve stitching time shifting in the AR region in response to the output capacitance load the process then goes to block .

At block given an initial time t the initial instantaneous output voltage Vo VDD or Ground is determined in accordance with its value in the steady state region. The table illustrated in may be used to read out the output voltage in the steady state region. The process then goes to block .

At block simulation time is advanced by an initial time step T in the VCR region. The process then goes to block to begin a loop.

At block a determination is made if the current or present time step is within the VCR or AR operational regions for the model. If the current or present time step is in the VCR operating region the process goes to block V. If instead the current or present time step is in the AR operating region the process goes to block A.

At block V given the current or present time step is in the VCR region the instantaneous output voltage is looked up by interpolation from the interpolated VCR table for the given input slew and lumped output capacitance load.

After the instantaneous output voltage is looked up from the interpolated VCR table the process then goes to block .

At block A given the current or present time step the instantaneous output voltage is looked up from the interpolated AR table. The process then goes to block .

At block the simulation time is advanced to the next time step in either of the VCR region or the AR region. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if simulation termination criteria is reached. If the criteria is reached the process goes to block . If the criteria has not been reached the process loops back to block . Simulation termination criteria may be when a predetermined output voltage level is reached such as one hundredth of the positive power supply voltage 0.01 Vdd for a falling output transition or ninety nine hundreths 0.99 Vdd for a rising output transition for example.

At block the process returns to process illustrated in to determine if there is another timing arc in the circuit stage to process.

Reference is now made to and assuming simulation mode for the multi operating region gate model. graphically illustrate how the multi operating region gate model may be used in the simulation mode. In a method of simulation mode analysis of the circuit cell stage using the multi operational gate model are illustrated beginning at block . The process goes to block .

At block given the determined input slew rate the values in the VCR tables are interpolated to determine appropriate look up table values for the input slew rate. The three dimensional tables illustrated in may be interpolated down to two dimensional tables for the determined input slew rate. The characteristic curves in the VCR region illustrated in are associated with the two dimensional tables e.g. output voltage response table for the determined input slew rate of the input voltage waveform . The process then goes to block .

At block given an initial offset time Tand an initial instantaneous output voltage Vo e.g. Vof VDD or Ground the initial instantaneous output current Io is set to zero. illustrates a DC voltage V e.g. VDD in the steady state region prior to the offset time t. The VCR region begins at the offset time tas shown in . The process then goes to block .

At block the simulation time is advanced by an initial time step T in the VCR region. The process then goes to block to begin a loop.

At block a determination is made if the current time step is within the VCR or AR operational regions for the model. If the current time step is in the VCR operating region the process goes to block V. If instead the current time step is in the AR operating region the process goes to block A.

At block V given the current or present time step is in the VCR region the instantaneous output voltage is initially looked up from the interpolated VCR tables without reference to a capacitive load. The input slew rate is known such that three dimensional VCR tables may be interpolated down to two dimensional VCR tables for the given input slew rate. For example the input slew rate may be between and with the tables of values for voltage current or admittance in each interpolated for that of the given input slew rate. For example the VCR output voltage table of may be interpolated into a two dimensional VCR output voltage table for the given input slew rate. The instantaneous output voltage of the prior time step prior instantaneous output voltage is used in the interpolated VCR output voltage table to determine an interpolated index value k . For example the prior instantaneous output voltage at time tmay be between V t and V t so that the interpolated index value k is between 2 and 3. This is equivalent to interpolating between the curves at time step tto determine the interpolated index value k for a capacitive load between the reference capacitance loads of Cand C.

The current or present time step and the interpolated index value k are then used to lookup the instantaneous output current value for the current time step in the VCR region from a two dimensional interpolated VCR output current table interpolated from the three dimensional tables of for example. In this may be point at time tfor example of the interpolated output current response curve section associated with the interpolated current table from . The process then goes to block .

At block A given the current or present time step is in the AR region the prior output voltage is used to lookup the instantaneous output current value for the current time step in the AR region. Without reference to an output load the prior output voltage is used to interpolate into one or both of the AR tables of or the AR table of to determine an instantaneous output current value. For example the prior output voltage value may be between Vand V. The instantaneous output current value may be interpolated to be between Iand I using linear interpolation techniques for example. At the cutoff time the cutoff voltage Vmay be used to determine a cutoff current Isuch as at point along a curve section of an asymptotic curve illustrated in . The current time step in the AR region may be further used to interpolate and determine the instantaneous output current value with the additional current information between Iand I. The process then goes to block .

At block in response to the instantaneous output current within the VCR region or the AR region the state space equations for the given stage are used to calculate the instantaneous output voltage for the current or present time step. The state space equations were generated previously at block of . As the state space equations account for the interconnect network the instantaneous output voltage is that which may be input to an input pin of a receiver of the next stage. Continuing with the example in the VCR region the instantaneous output voltage may be determined to be point at time tillustrated in for example associated with the curve section between curve sections associated with the curves . The process then goes to block .

At block the simulation time is advanced to the next time step in either of the VCR region or the AR region. If in the VCR region the time step may uniformly change by the same time change T in accordance with the time grid. If in the AR region the time step may vary from point to point e.g. T T T etc. depending upon the rate of change in output current or output voltage from point to point. Continuing with the example in the VCR region the next time step may be time step t. The process then goes to block .

At block a determination is made if predetermined simulation termination criteria is reached. If the criteria is reached the process goes to block . If the criteria has not been reached the process loops back to block .

At block the process returns to process illustrated in to determine if there is another timing arc in the circuit stage to process.

Continuing with the example in the VCR region with the present time step being t assuming that the predetermined simulation termination criteria has not been met the process loops back to block .

Assuming at block the present time step tis still in the VCR region the process goes to block V. At block V assuming the instantaneous output voltage was previously determined from the state space equations for time step t such as at point in it may be used in the interpolated VCR output voltage table to determine an interpolated index value k . For example the prior instantaneous output voltage at time tmay be between V t and V t so that the interpolated index value k is between 2 and 3. This is equivalent to interpolating between the curves at time step tto determine the interpolated index value k for a capacitive load between the reference capacitance loads of Cand C.

The current or present time step tand the interpolated index value k are then used to lookup the instantaneous output current value for the current time step in the VCR region from a two dimensional interpolated VCR output current table interpolated from the m 1 two dimensional tables for each input slew rate e.g. three dimensional tables with different time values t of for example. In this may be point at time tfor example of the interpolated output current response curve section associated with the interpolated current table from . The process then goes to repeat block .

At block knowing the instantaneous output current point for example the state space equations for the given stage are used to calculate the instantaneous output voltage for the current or present time step time tfor example. The instantaneous output voltage may be determined to be point at time tillustrated in for example associated with the curve section between curve sections associated with the curves . The process then goes to block to advance to the next time step and repeats in a loop until the predetermined simulation termination criteria are met.

Assuming the simulation is still in the AR region and the predetermined simulation termination criteria are not met block A may be repeated for the next time step. For the next time step the state space equations for the given stage were used to calculate the instantaneous output voltage at block . The prior output voltage is used to interpolate into one or both of the AR tables of or the AR table of to determine an instantaneous output current value. For example the computed prior output voltage value may be Vin . The instantaneous output current value may be interpolated to be Iat point along the curve section illustrated in .

The process then goes to blocks and to advance to the next time step and repeats in a loop until the predetermined simulation termination criteria are met at block .

The modeled components of the circuit stage undergo an analysis to simplify the circuit stage and speed up a static timing analysis that is to be performed on the larger integrated circuit design that includes the given circuit stage. If the interconnect network includes a distributed parasitic network instead of a lumped capacitor network the multi operating region gate model is used in a simulation mode analysis. In a simulation mode analysis state space equations ordinary differential equations of a state space system may be used to find the output voltage response of the circuit cell stage.

Generally a circuit stage may be described by the following set of ordinary differential equations commonly referred to as a state space system allowing one to calculate voltage waveforms on all nodes of interest particularly the outputs of the circuit stage coupled to the receiver input pins of the next stage as follows 

In this set of state space equations x is the vector of states for the circuit stage A E B C are state space matrices formed during resistor capacitor RC interconnect network reduction ROM generation v is a vector of voltages at the taps inputs to the final receivers of the stage and ports outputs of drivers of the stage and u is a vector of current sources at the inputs of the circuit stage to model the victim driver and or the aggressor driver. The state space equation system describes port and tap voltage responses v to nonlinear current source s u connected at port s of the RC network.

In general the nonlinear current sources attached to each port are nonlinear functions of time and unknown voltage at that port u I t v . Additionally current sources may be used to model aggressor drivers for noise delay calculations and have an additional parameter which may shift over time reflecting the fact that transition at aggressor input can occur within certain timing or switching windows SW . The current source for the kaggressor is described by the equation u I t v where k is the shift parameter for the kaggressor.

Calculation of the voltages on the terminals ports and taps of the circuit stage may be performed by a numerical integration of state space equations or through perturbation methods. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 203 128 entitled FLEXIBLE NOISE AND DELAY MODELING OF CIRCUIT STAGES FOR STATIC TIMING ANALYSIS OF INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGNS filed by Igor Keller et al. on Sep. 2 2008 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety describes further details of using and solving state space equations.

Simulation robustness and accuracy in modeling of gates circuit cells and circuit stages may be improved if output currents and small signal admittances can be obtained more directly obtained from the stored data.

The multi operating region gate model has advantages in that it is accurate has direct currents needed for simulation on distributed coupled interconnect it is robust ensures physical responses and can reduce the size of a cell library. Measurements for the multi operating gate model are taken in a more organized way for current look up during simulation. The current data points for the VCR region are taken on a common time axis for all loads under the same input slew minimizing the risk of numerical problems with deriving the small signal admittance. The data points for the AR region may be taken on a common output voltage axis.

The multi operating region gate model is characterized for both current and voltage responses so that it may be used for distributed loads noise analysis by simulation and a fast lookup with a lumped load. With a uniform time grid in the VCR region and a uniform voltage grid in the AR region the characterization process may be simpler. Moreover in the AR region after the input has transitioned to a stable state the cutoff time the output current can be described by a compact function of voltage I v independent of capacitive load and time. The AR region can be characterized with fewer data points leading to a reduction in the size of the model while maintaining accuracy. In addition the multi operating region model allows for shorter characterization times since multiple loads can be simulated at once. The multi operating region gate model does not need to use a non linear delay model table. The multi operating region gate model can not only be used for delay calculation but also crosstalk noise calculations. The multi operating region gate model can provide a stable timing simulation ensures physical small signal admittance . An output response may be found semi analytically by using stretching techniques.

When implemented in software the elements of the embodiments of the invention are essentially the program code segments or instructions to perform the necessary tasks. The program code segments or instructions can be stored in a processor readable medium or storage device that can be read and executed by a processor. The processor readable medium may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of the processor readable medium include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a read only memory ROM a flash memory an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a floppy diskette a CD ROM an optical disk and a magnetic disk. The program or code segments may be downloaded via computer networks such as the Internet Intranet etc and stored in the processor readable medium or storage device.

When implemented as an electronic computer aided design ECAD system the elements of the embodiments of the invention include one or more processor to execute the program code segments or instructions that may be stored in a processor readable medium or storage device to perform the tasks or functions of a method or process. The one or more processors may be specifically adapted to electronic computer aided design including processing logic that may comprise hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software or a combination of both.

A computing system adapted to perform electronic computer aided design ECAD may be used to perform some or all of the processes described herein. The computing system includes a processor a memory a removable media drive and a hard disk drive. The processor within the computer executes instructions stored in a machine readable storage device such as the hard disk drive or a removable storage device e.g. an optical medium compact disk CD digital video disk DVD etc. a magnetic medium magnetic disk a magnetic tape etc. or a combination of both. The instructions may be loaded from the machine readable storage device into the memory which may include Random Access Memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM etc. The processor may retrieve the instructions from the memory and execute the instructions to perform the operations described herein.

Some portions of the preceding detailed description may have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations that perform operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the tools used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may take the form of electrical e.g. current or voltage or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values levels elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be kept in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The embodiments of the invention are thus described. While embodiments of the invention have been particularly described they should not be construed as limited by such embodiments. Additionally the embodiments of the invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein. Instead the embodiments of the invention should be construed according to the claims that follow below.

