---

title: System and method for dynamically clustering data items
abstract: A method for dynamically clustering data items, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of data items originating from at least two sources, a plurality of distinct metadata details, and data indicative of associations between the data items and the metadata details, wherein each data item is associated with at least one metadata detail indicative of its owner, and wherein at least a first data item originating from a first source and a second data item originating from a second source are related data items associated with at least one shared metadata detail; grading probabilities of relationships between at least one of the data items and at least one of the metadata details; clustering the data items into one or more clusters, based on the calculated probabilities; and, optionally, sharing clusters and meta-clusters between users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058614&OS=09058614&RS=09058614
owner: SphereUp Ltd.
number: 09058614
owner_city: Tel-Aviv
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20120521
---
The disclosed subject matter relates to the field of data items management and more specifically to the field of dynamic clustering and sharing of data items.

Nowadays there are various data items associated with various computer applications. In some cases one or more data items associated with a certain computer application can be related to other data items associated with other computer applications. In further cases one or more data items associated with a certain computer application can conflict with other data items associated with other computer applications. Still further in some cases users of various computer applications can have various data items relating to other various data items of other users. There is thus a need in the art for a new system and method for dynamically clustering data items.

Prior art references considered to be relevant as background to the presently disclosed subject matter are listed below. Acknowledgement of the references herein is not to be inferred as meaning that these are in any way relevant to the patentability of the presently disclosed subject matter.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 483 915 Thompson et al. issued on Jan. 27 2009 discloses a method for manipulating a plurality of discrete units of information Items in a hardware software interface system for a computer system said method comprising interconnecting said Items with a plurality of Relationships and managing said Relationships at the hardware software interface system level. Each Relationship constitutes at the hardware software interface system level a mapping between a pair of Items that said Relationship interconnects. Moreover each Relationship may have properties of its own distinct and separate from the properties of the Items it interconnects.

In accordance with an aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method for dynamically clustering data items the method comprising 

receiving a a plurality of data items originating from at least two sources b a plurality of distinct metadata details c data indicative of associations between the data items and the metadata details wherein each data item is associated with at least one metadata detail indicative of its owner and wherein at least a first data item originating from a first source and a second data item originating from a second source are related data items associated with at least one shared metadata detail 

grading strengths of relationships between at least one of the data items and at least one of the metadata details and

clustering the data items into one or more clusters based on the calculated strengths wherein at least one of the clusters comprises related data items originating from more than one source.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising enabling sharing of at least one of the clusters with at least one other user or public list.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising receiving at least one additional data item relating to at least one of the clusters from the user or the public list.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method wherein the grading comprises applying weighting functions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method wherein the weighting functions are rule based weighting functions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method wherein the clustering is based on a heuristic clustering algorithm.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising clustering the one or more clusters into meta clusters.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising enabling sharing of at least one of the meta clusters with at least one other user or public list.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising ranking the clusters within the meta clusters in accordance with the relevance of the clusters.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising associating at least one data item with at least one additional metadata detail by utilizing information stored in a global relationships table and wherein the grading is performed also for the at least one additional metadata detail.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method further comprising ranking the data items within the clusters in accordance with the relevance of the data items.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a method wherein the first data item is further associated with at least one metadata detail not associated with the second data item.

In accordance with an aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system for dynamically clustering data items the system comprising at least one processing unit configured to 

receive a a plurality of data items originating from at least two sources b a plurality of distinct metadata details c data indicative of associations between the data items and the metadata details wherein each data item is associated with at least one metadata detail indicative of its owner and wherein at least a first data item originating from a first source and a second data item originating from a second source are related data items associated with at least one shared metadata detail 

grade strengths of relationships between at least one of the data items and at least one of the metadata details and

cluster the data items into one or more clusters based on the calculated strengths wherein at least one of the clusters comprises related data items originating from more than one source.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to enable sharing of at least one of the clusters with at least one other user or public list.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to receive at least one additional data item relating to at least one of the clusters from the user or the public list.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the grade comprises applying weighting functions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the weighting functions are rule based weighting functions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the clustering is based on a heuristic clustering algorithm.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to cluster the one or more clusters into meta clusters.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to enable sharing of at least one of the meta clusters with at least one other user or public list.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to rank the clusters within the meta clusters in accordance with the relevance of the clusters.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to associate at least one data item with at least one additional metadata detail by utilizing information stored in a global relationships table and wherein the grade is performed also for the at least one additional metadata detail.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the processing unit is further configured to rank the data items within the clusters in accordance with the relevance of the data items.

In accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a system wherein the first data item is further associated with at least one metadata detail not associated with the second data item.

In the drawings and descriptions set forth identical reference numerals indicate those components that are common to different embodiments or configurations.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as receiving grading clustering enabling associating utilizing ranking or the like include actions and or processes of a computer that manipulate and or transform data into other data said data represented as physical quantities e.g. such as electronic quantities and or said data representing the physical objects. The term computer should be expansively construed to cover any kind of electronic device with data processing capabilities including by way of non limiting example a personal computer a server a computing system a communication device a processor e.g. digital signal processor DSP a microcontroller a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. any other electronic computing device and or any combination thereof.

The operations in accordance with the teachings herein may be performed by a computer specially constructed for the desired purposes or by a general purpose computer specially configured for the desired purpose by a computer program stored in a computer readable storage medium.

As used herein the phrase for example such as for instance and variants thereof describe non limiting embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter. Reference in the specification to one case some cases other cases or variants thereof means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment s is included in at least one embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter. Thus the appearance of the phrase one case some cases other cases or variants thereof does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment s .

It is appreciated that certain features of the presently disclosed subject matter which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the presently disclosed subject matter which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable sub combination.

In embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter fewer more and or different stages than those shown in may be executed. In embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter one or more stages illustrated in may be executed in a different order and or one or more groups of stages may be executed simultaneously. illustrates a general schematic of the system architecture in accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter. Each module in can be made up of any combination of software hardware and or firmware that performs the functions as defined and explained herein. The modules in may be centralized in one location or dispersed over more than one location. In other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the system may comprise fewer more and or different modules than those shown in .

In the following description the disclosed subject matter is described with reference to personal contacts e.g. details of people with whom a person is familiar with comprising contact details e.g. names addresses telephone and facsimile numbers email addresses workplaces etc. by way of example. It is to be noted that this is a mere non limiting example and the disclosed subject matter is not limited to the field of personal contacts. The disclosed subject matter can be implemented in other contexts mutatis mutandis as can be appreciated by any person of ordinary skill in the art.

Bearing this in mind attention is drawn to showing a block diagram schematically illustrating one example of a system for dynamically clustering data items in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter. System comprises at least one processing unit e.g. digital signal processor DSP a microcontroller a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. configured to receive instructions and to manage control and execute the components and operations of system .

System further comprises a data repository for storing and enabling retrieval of various data e.g. contact details as further detailed below. Data repository can be for example non volatile or volatile memory including but not limited to RAM ROM flash memory etc.

System can further comprise the following modules source adapter module data builder module view builder module sharing management module lists management module scheduling module and global analytics module .

Source adapter module can be configured to receive various data items e.g. contact details associated with a user from various sources and store the received data on data repository as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to . In some cases source adapter module can be further configured to associate various metadata items e.g. source type unique ID etc. with the received data items e.g. contact details as further detailed herein.

Data builder module can be configured to dynamically cluster the data items associated with a user and stored on data repository e.g. into clusters e.g. personal contacts of the user or meta clusters e.g. groups of personal contacts of the user as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to .

View builder module can be configured to perform various manipulations on the data created by the data builder module e.g. the created clusters or meta clusters enabling inter alia efficient consumption of the data by other modules of system e.g. global analytics module etc. .

Sharing management module can be configured to enable a user of system to share various data items e.g. contact details clusters e.g. personal contacts or meta clusters e.g. groups of personal contacts with other users as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to .

Lists management module can be configured to enable creation management and sharing of lists of clusters e.g. lists of personal contacts between a plurality of users as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to .

Scheduling module can be configured to schedule execution of various components and operations of system . For example scheduling module can be configured to initiate source adapter module in order to retrieve various data items e.g. contact details from various sources as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

Global analytics module can be configured to maintain a global relationships table e.g. in data repository containing data of relationships between the various data items e.g. contact details stored in data repository irrespective of the owner of such data items e.g. the person that owns the personal contact . Such data can be used inter alia by data builder module while dynamically clustering the data items as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to .

It is to be noted that according to some examples of the presently disclosed subject matter system and all or part of its modules can be distributed over several locations and or computers. In addition some or all of system modules can be combined and provided as a single module or by way of example at least one of them can be realized in the form of two or more modules.

System can further comprise a Reliable Message Bus RMB configured to route and transmit various messages between system modules while guaranteeing safe delivery.

Attention is now drawn to showing a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for dynamically clustering data items in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

In some cases process begins by system receiving a a plurality of data items originating from a plurality of sources e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Outlook a cellular phone etc. b a plurality of distinct metadata details and c data indicative of associations e.g. relationships between the data items and the metadata details block . In some cases the data can be received for example by retrieving it from data repository .

According to some examples of the presently disclosed subject matter each of the data items is associated with at least one metadata detail. In some cases at least one of the metadata details associated with each data item contains data indicative of the data item owner the user owning the system account from which the data item was originally received into the system . In some cases the data items can relate to personal contacts of a certain user. In some cases the data items can be pre stored on data repository by source adapter module that can receive such data items from various sources as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

In the exemplary context of contacts a data item can be any detail relating to personal contacts of a certain user. For example a data item can be a first name a surname a middle name an email address an email domain a phone number a phone number prefix a phone number country code a cellular phone number a cellular phone number prefix a cellular phone number country code a fax number a fax number prefix a fax number country code address data items such as a street name a house number a country name a house entrance an apartment number a workplace name a workplace address data items or any other detail relating to personal contacts of a certain user.

A metadata detail can be any detail that provides information about one or more data items. Thus for example a metadata detail can contain data indicative of a data item owner the user to whom the data item relates the data item source the data item type e.g. if it is a first name a surname a middle name an email address an email domain etc. the data item relation to other data items or any other detail that provides information about a data item.

In some cases various data items originating from various sources can be related. For example if a certain user receives data from more than one source it is possible that more than one source will comprise data relating to the same contact. In some cases there can be a discrepancy between the data items relating to such a contact originating from each source. In some cases certain data items relating to a certain contact and originating from a certain source can be identical to data items relating to such contact and originating from another source. In some cases certain data items relating to a certain contact and originating from a certain source can be different from data items relating to such a contact and originating from another source. In some cases certain data items originating from a certain source can be missing from the other source.

Looking at an example a certain user can have a connection to a certain contact both in Facebook and in LinkedIn In some cases Facebook can comprise certain information about such a contact such as a first name a surname and an address whereas LinkedIn can comprise other information about the same contact such as a first name a surname and a phone number. It can be appreciated that there are shared data items namely the first name and the last name and distinct data items such as the address and the phone number whereas all of the data items relate to the same contact.

In some cases at least one data item originating from a certain source and at least one data item originating from another source can be related data items. Such related data items can be associated with at least one shared metadata detail and one of such related data items can be associated with at least one metadata detail that is not associated with the other data item. As indicated above a metadata detail can be indicative of a data item relation to other data items. In some cases each data item e.g. the first name the surname the address the phone number or any other data item can be associated with metadata details indicative of its relation to other data items. Looking at the example above the data item representing the first name of the contact from Facebook can be associated with the metadata detail comprising the contact s surname and with the metadata detail comprising the contact s address whereas the data item representing the first name of the contact relating to the same contact from LinkedIn can be associated with the metadata detail comprising the contact s surname and with the metadata detail comprising the contact s phone number. It can be appreciated that both data items are associated with the metadata detail comprising the contact s surname and that each data item is also associated with an additional metadata detail that the other data item is not associated with.

In some cases system can be further configured to grade the strengths of relationships between at least one of the data items and at least one metadata detail associated therewith block e.g. by utilizing data builder module as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

According to some examples of the presently disclosed subject matter system can be still further configured to cluster the data items into one or more clusters block in accordance with the calculated strengths e.g. by utilizing data builder module as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to . In some cases a cluster can comprise one or more data items relating to a specific personal contact e.g. the personal contact first name and or middle name and or surname and or email address and or phone number and or any other detail relating to the personal contact .

In some cases system can be further configured to cluster one or more of the clusters in the context of personal contact the personal contacts into meta clusters. A meta cluster in the context of personal contact is a group of personal contacts e.g. a group of personal contacts relating to a certain user. It is to be noted that the relation of the group of personal contacts comprising the meta cluster to such a user can be a meaningful relation for such a user e.g. co workers of the user friends of the user family of the user etc. .

In some cases system can be further configured to utilize view builder module in order to perform various manipulations on the data created by the data builder module e.g. the created clusters or meta clusters enabling inter alia efficient consumption of the data by other modules of system e.g. global analytics module etc. .

According to some examples of the presently disclosed subject matter system can be configured to enable a user to share various data items e.g. contact details clusters e.g. personal contacts or meta clusters e.g. groups of personal contacts with other users block for example by utilizing sharing management module as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to . Thus in some cases a user can give various types of access permissions e.g. read write etc. on its data items and or clusters and or meta clusters to one or more other users of system . Assuming as an example that a certain user hereinafter User A has contact details of a certain person hereinafter person A and that he is interested in sharing all or part of the contact details with another user hereinafter User B of system . System can enable the User A to give User B access to all or part of the contact details relating to person A that User A has thus enabling User B to introduce the contact details of person A or parts thereof in case user B already has part of the contact details of person A to his personal contacts.

In some cases system can be further configured to receive at least one additional data item e.g. a contact detail cluster e.g. a personal contact or meta cluster e.g. a group of personal contacts from other users that chose to share such data items with the user block for example by utilizing sharing management module as further detailed herein inter alia with respect to . Thus in some cases a user can receive various types of access permissions e.g. read write etc. to data items and or clusters and or meta clusters relating to one or more other users of system . Receipt of such access permissions can enable the user to introduce the received contact details and or clusters and or meta clusters or parts thereof in case he already has part of the received contact details and or clusters and or meta clusters to his personal contacts.

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Turning to there is shown a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for receiving data items from a user manually in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter. As indicated above the data items that are received by system can be received from various sources e.g. by utilizing source adapter module that can be configured inter alia to store the received data items and or derivatives thereof in data repository .

One exemplary source is manual user input. It can be appreciated that system contains e.g. in data repository various data items relating to personal contacts of various users and can enable users for example using a user interface to insert new data items and or clusters and or meta clusters and to update and delete existing data items and or clusters and or meta clusters.

According to some examples of the presently disclosed subject matter process performed for example by utilizing source adapter module can begin upon detection of one or more changes e.g. insert and or update and or delete of data items and or clusters and or meta clusters originating from a certain user block . System can be configured to check if the detected changes relate to data items that were manually introduced into the system by the user block . It is to be noted that an indication about the source of the data items can be provided as part of the metadata associated therewith.

In case the changes do not relate to data items that were manually introduced into the system by the user e.g. in case the data items originate from an external source as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to system can be configured to mark any data item that is to be updated or deleted as a removed data item prior to introducing the changes block . If however the changes do relate to data items that were manually introduced into the system by the user or following marking of the data items as indicated above system can be further configured to introduce the changed data to data repository block . In some cases system can be further configured to activate data builder module block in order to cluster the updated data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system into clusters and or meta clusters as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

System can receive various data items from various external sources external to system . For example system can be configured to utilize various Application Programming Interfaces API s of various external sources in order to retrieve various data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system . Such external sources can include for example Facebook LinkedIn Google s Gmail Microsoft s Active Directory or any other external source. System can be configured to retrieve various data items also from other applications such as Microsoft s Outlook an organizational database or any other sources including sources that do not provide an API. System can be still further configured to retrieve data from various storage formats and file types such as XML Excel files CSV files RSS and REST web feeds etc.

In some cases process performed for example by utilizing source adapter module can be triggered every pre determined time interval block for example as determined by scheduling module . In such cases system can be configured to check if the external source enables retrieval of updates made to data items e.g. new data items updated data items deleted data items since the last retrieval of data therefrom block . In case not system can be configured to retrieve all of the data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system block .

Following retrieval of the data items system can be configured to associate each of the data items with various metadata relating thereto and in some cases also to perform various manipulations on the received data items block .

In some cases such manipulations of the received data items can include applying various rules used inter alia for stemming and or augmenting and or modifying and or performing any other manipulation on the received data items. In some cases to such manipulations of a data item can result in dividing the retrieved data items into multiple data items. In some cases each of the newly created data items is associated with metadata details containing the data of each of the other newly created data items. Thus for example in case a certain retrieved data item contains more than one detail of a personal contact such data item can be divided into two or more if required data items each containing a certain detail of a personal contact. In some cases each of the created data items can be associated with metadata details containing the data of the other data items. In an exemplary manner in case a certain retrieved data item contains both a first name and a surname system can manipulate the retrieved data item and create two separate data items one indicative of the first name and the other indicative of the surname it is to be noted that this is a non limiting example and other manipulations can be additionally or alternatively performed . In addition in the above example the data item indicative of the surname will be associated at least with a metadata detail indicative of the first name and the data item indicative of the first name will be associated at least with a metadata detail indicative of the surname.

As indicated above in some cases system can be further configured to associate each data item with one or more of the following metadata indicative of the data item owner e.g. the user that is logged in to the system metadata indicative of the source from which the data item originated e.g. the external source from which the data item was retrieved a unique identifier relating to the data item for enabling unique identification thereof etc.

In addition system can be configured to associate one or more of the data items with metadata indicative of various relationships between two or more data items. It can be appreciated that when data items are retrieved from a certain external source or following manipulation of the retrieved data items as detailed above some of the data items can be related. Thus for example a certain data item can contain a first name of a certain personal contact and another data item can contain a surname of the same personal contact. In this exemplary scenario system can be configured to associate each data item with metadata indicative of such relation. Such metadata indication can be provided by associating the relevant data items with metadata indicative of a relationship unique identifier or metadata containing a certain text string that can be later used by system in order to identify the relationship.

In some cases such metadata can include various hints indicative of a relationship not necessarily uniquely identifying the relationships . In such cases such metadata can be used in order to cluster the data items as further detailed herein.

Still further system can be configured to associate one or more of the data items with metadata indicative of a calculated pre rank associated with the data item. A pre rank can be calculated according to various pre determined rules. For example in case the data items are retrieved from an external source such as Facebook such data items can represent personal contact details of friends of the user that is logged in to system hereinafter First Circle Friends or data items of friends of friends and so forth hereinafter Outer Circles Friends . A higher pre rank can be calculated to the First Circle Friends in comparison to Outer Circle Friends. It is to be noted that this is a mere example of a pre rank that can be calculated for a data item and other pre rank calculations can be performed.

According to some examples of the presently disclosed subject matter system can be further configured to compare the received data items with the data stored on data repository in some cases prior to such comparison the system can flush any local data that is not up to date in data repository block .

In case there is a difference between the retrieved data items and the data items stored on data repository system can be further configured to update data repository block and activate data builder module block in order to cluster the updated data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system into clusters and or meta clusters as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

In some cases process can be triggered upon detection of a change of one or more data items stored in the external source and relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system block . It is to be noted that the ability to detect a change in data items stored in an external source depends on the external source s ability to communicate updates upon its initiative. In such cases system can be configured to retrieve the changed data items in case the change included updating data items and or inserting new data items or an indication of the change in the data items in case of deleting existing data items block .

In some cases e.g. if there are updated data items and or new data items system can be configured to perform various manipulations on the received data items and or to associate each of the data items with various metadata relating thereto as detailed above with respect to block block .

System can be further configured to update data repository block and activate data builder module block in order to cluster the updated data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system into clusters and or meta clusters as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Turning to there is shown a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for receiving data items from internal sources in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

As detailed herein various data items and or metadata associated therewith relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system and stored in data repository can be updated for example as a result of manual user input data received from external sources etc. In some cases as indicated herein a user can share one or more data items and or clusters and or meta clusters with one or more other users.

In some cases where one or more data items and or metadata associated therewith that are shared by a certain user that chose to share such data with one or more other users is updated system can be configured to trigger process thereby enabling updating the respective data items of the one or more other users that received such data from such a user.

Process performed for example by utilizing source adapter module can be triggered upon detection of a change in one or more data items and or metadata associated therewith that have been shared with a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system block . Following detection of such a change system can be configured to retrieve the changed data items and or metadata associated therewith in case the change included updating data items and or metadata associated therewith and or inserting new data items and or metadata associated therewith or an indication of the change in the data items and or metadata associated therewith in case of deleting existing data items and or metadata associated therewith block update the data repository accordingly block and activate data builder module block in order to cluster the updated data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system into clusters and or meta clusters as further detailed herein inter alia with reference to .

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Attention is now drawn to showing a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for clustering data items and clustering clusters into meta clusters in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

In some cases system can be configured to perform a clustering process for that purpose system can utilize data builder module for example . The clustering process can be dynamic and can be initiated whenever there is a change in the data items and or the metadata associated therewith e.g. a new data item and or metadata associated therewith is introduced a data item and or metadata associated therewith is updated a data item and or metadata associated therewith is deleted block .

In some cases following such a change system can optionally be configured to perform various manipulations on new or updated data items and or to associate each of the new or updated data items with various metadata relating thereto block . In some cases such manipulations can be different than and can be performed in addition to the manipulations performed when receiving data items from external sources as detailed with respect to .

In some cases such manipulations of the new or updated data items can include applying various rules used inter alia for stemming and or augmenting and or modifying and or performing any other manipulation on the new or updated data items. In some to cases such manipulations of a data item can result in dividing the new or updated data items into multiple data items. Thus for example in case a certain new or updated data item contains more than one detail of a personal contact such a data item can be divided into two or more if required data items each containing a certain detail of a personal contact. In an exemplary manner in case a certain new or updated data item contains both a first name and a surname system can manipulate the new or updated data item and create two separate data items one indicative of the first name and the other indicative of the surname it is to be noted that this is a non limiting example and other manipulations can be additionally or alternatively performed .

System can be further configured to maintain a data matrix containing data indicative of the strength of a relationship between the various data items relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system and the various metadata details associated therewith.

It is to be noted that each data item irrespective of its content can be represented as a row in the data matrix even if more than one data item has identical content. Therefore there is a need in associating each data item with a data item identifier ID as more than one data item can have the same content e.g. a certain user can have two contacts named Joe and thus two data items with the content Joe will exist for example . In some cases the metadata items are represented distinctively in the data matrix. Therefore in such cases even if more than one data item is associated with a certain metadata detail such a metadata detail will be represented as a single column in the data matrix e.g. if more than one data item is associated with a metadata detail containing a value such as Facebook only one column with such value will be presented into the data matrix .

Although in the description above it is indicated that data items are represented by rows of the data matrix and metadata details are represented by columns of the data matrix it can be appreciated that as an alternative data items can be represented by columns of the data matrix and metadata details can be represented by rows of the data matrix.

In some cases each cell relating to a data item and to a metadata detail associated therewith can be assigned with a certain numeric value e.g. one whereas each metadata detail that is not associated to such data item can have another numeric value e.g. zero. It is to be noted that other numeric values can be used. In some cases the cells can have a default cell value that can be changed in some cases as further detailed below e.g. with respect to . In further cases although in the example shown in the description reference is made to numeric values non numeric values can be used mutatis mutandis.

In some cases system can be configured to update such data matrix in accordance with the change in the data items or the metadata details associated therewith e.g. by adding or deleting rows and columns as required and or by updating the respective cells values block .

System can be configured to apply various weighting functions including known in the art weighting functions in order to calculate the strength of a relationship between the various data items and the various metadata details block . Such weighting functions can be for example rule based weighting functions. The rules can be for example based on the data items source type value owner etc. and or based on the metadata items. Thus for example a certain rule can determine that each data item that was received from a certain source a certain source is more or less reliable than data items that were received from other sources. In such cases the value within the call that is associated with each data item that is associated with a metadata detail indicative of such source can be multiplied or divided by a certain number e.g. 10 etc. . Another rule can determine that a data item that is comprised of a phone number with an area code should have a higher or lower weight than a phone number without an area code. Thus the value of each call associated with a data item indicative of a phone number with an area code can be multiplied or divided by a certain number e.g. 2 etc. . Another rule can be based on the type of the metadata detail. For example if the metadata detail is derived from a certain comment relating to a certain data item e.g. a comment on a certain contact in Facebook a certain rule can determine that the value of each cell associated with such metadata detail should be lower than the value of cells that are associated with metadata details that indicate that the origin of the data items is Facebook and thus the value of such cells is divided by a certain number e.g. 100 . Another exemplary rule can determine that any metadata detail indicative of relationship information provided by a user should have a high weight indicative of a very high strength of a relationship as further detailed below with respect to .

System can be further configured to operate additional weighting functions in order to calculate the strength of a relationship between the various data items and the various metadata details. Thus for example certain weighting functions can add weights to metadata details that appear rarely e.g. specific surnames . Certain weighting functions can reduce weights of metadata details that appear frequently e.g. a certain area code . In some cases for that purpose known techniques such as inversed document frequency and other known in the art functions like entropy can be used.

It is to be noted that these are mere examples and other weighting functions can be used in order to calculate the strength of a relationship between the various data items and the various metadata details.

System can be further configured to group the data items into clusters while utilizing the data within the data matrix block . For this purpose system can use known in the art dimensionality reduction techniques such as feature extraction techniques e.g. Latent Semantic Analysis LSA Singular Value Decomposition SVD Locality sensitive hashing LSH Random Projection etc. in order to reduce the size of the data matrix while preserving data that will allow to cluster data items in a meaningful manner so that the resulting clusters will have meaning to the user e.g. so that each cluster will represent a contact person of such user when speaking of personal contacts . Subsequently system can be configured to employ a heuristic clustering algorithm known in the art such as Hierarchical clustering Bi clustering k means clustering etc. to produce clusters in the example of personal contacts each cluster can represent a personal contact based on the reduced matrix.

Looking for an example on k means clustering the number of clusters k is first determined. The number of clusters can be determined randomly by trial and error or according to a formula e.g. a division by two of the square root of the number of data items or in case of personal contacts a sum of the number of contacts that were received from every source or in any other manner.

Each cell within the reduced matrix represents the strength of a relationship between its respective data item and metadata detail. Thus in every column or row depending on the selected representation in the data matrix representing a data item there will be a list of weights representing the strength of a relationship between it and the metadata details. Such a list of weights can be represented by a coordinate in an n dimensional space. Each of the k clusters can be assigned with a coordinate of a random data item and thus the clusters can be distributed over the n dimensional space. In addition each data item can also be represented by a coordinate in the n dimensional space.

Once the clusters and the data items are represented in the n dimensional space each data item can be assigned to the cluster to which it is closest in the n dimensional space thus giving rise to the clusters.

In some cases system can be still further configured to perform a ranking process for ranking data items within each cluster and or for ranking each cluster within a meta cluster block as further detailed herein with reference to .

It is to be noted that the process detailed above can be activated mutatis mutandis in order to cluster the created clusters into meta clusters. In such a case for example instead of creating the data matrix by using the data items the data matrix rows can represent the created clusters e.g. each cluster will be represented by a row in the data matrix for example according to cluster identifications ID s whereas the data matrix columns can represent the metadata details associated with the cluster. In some cases the metadata details can be similar to the metadata details that are associated with the data items comprising such clusters.

Thus the data matrix will contain data indicative of the strength of a relationship between the various clusters relating to a certain user e.g. the user that is logged in to the system and the various metadata details associated therewith e.g. the various metadata details associated with the data items that the clusters comprise .

The process detailed above can be implemented on the data matrix in order to cluster the clusters into meta clusters mutatis mutandis.

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Attention is now drawn to showing a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for enabling a user to manually determine a relationship between two or more data items between a certain data item and a certain cluster or between a certain cluster and a certain meta cluster in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

In some cases system e.g. by utilizing data builder module can enable a user to add relationship information indicative of a relationship or in some cases lack thereof between two or more data items between a certain data item and a certain cluster or between a certain cluster and a certain meta cluster block . In some cases system can provide a user with a user interface enabling addition of such information. Upon introduction of such information system can be configured to associate each data item cluster or meta cluster to which such relationship information relates with metadata details indicative of the relationship or lack thereof in accordance with the relationship information block . Thus for example in case a certain user is aware of a relationship or lack thereof between two or more data items he can provide information indicative of the relationship or lack thereof and system can be configured to associate each of the related data items with a metadata detail indicative of such relationship or lack thereof .

In some cases during the clustering process execution the cell relating to a data item and to a metadata detail associated therewith and indicative of relationship information provided by a user can be assigned with a relatively high or low e.g. in case of lack of relationship numeric value e.g. in case the relationship information is indicative of a relationship a higher numeric value in comparison to a default numeric value assigned to other cells indicative of a high strength of a relationship. Such assignment can be performed for example during execution of the process described with reference to block herein. In some cases when non numeric cell values are used other representations indicative of a higher weight or lower weight in case of lack of relationship indicative of a high strength of a relationship to assign to cells can be used. Alternatively the cell relating to a data item and to a metadata detail associated therewith and indicative of relationship information provided by a user can be assigned with a certain numeric value e.g. a default numeric value as described with reference to block herein whereas a weighting function e.g. a rule based weighting function can increase or decrease in case of lack of relationship the weights within cells associated with metadata details indicative of relationship information provided by a user as detailed with reference to block herein .

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Attention is now drawn to showing a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for ranking data items and clusters in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

Ranking process performed e.g. by utilizing data builder module can start for example during execution of the clustering process upon manual initiation by a user every pre determined or calculated time period etc. block . During the ranking process system can be configured to calculate a rank for each data item associated with every cluster block . In some cases the rank is calculated based on a ranking function. Such ranking function can be based on the data item value and or on one or more of the metadata details associated with it such as its source its owner the data in which it was received or any other metadata . For example a data item that was received from a non reliable source e.g. in case of contacts Facebook can get a lower grade in comparison to a data item that is received from a more reliable source e.g. in case of contacts the user s cellular phone . Another example is that a data item owned by the user that is logged in to the system can get a higher grade in comparison to a data item that is owned by another user that shared the data item with the logged on user. Yet another example a data item that is received at a later date in comparison to another data item can get a higher grade than the other data item.

It is to be noted that the examples above are non limiting. In addition the ranking function can be based on more than one parameter e.g. metadata items and or data item values etc. .

Following the ranking of the data items the calculated ranks are stored in the data repository block . In addition a rank can be calculated for each cluster for example by aggregating the ranks of the data items associated therewith block . Following the ranking of the clusters the calculated ranks are stored in the data repository block .

It can be appreciated that the ranks can be used to enable providing the user with data items according to their relevancy. For example in the context of contacts there could be situations in which conflicting data items are received from various sources. For example a certain contact person can be associated with more than one address received from more than one source. It can be further appreciated that for example some sources can be less reliable than others and thus the addresses that are received from such sources should be ranked below the addresses that are received from relatively reliable sources. Ranking the conflicting data items can enable providing the user with data items ranked in accordance with the calculated rank. For example the conflicting data items can be presented to the user ordered from the highest ranked conflicting data items to the lowest ranked ones.

In case of conflicting clusters the ranking can also enable presenting the user with such clusters in accordance with their rank. Assuming in the context of contacts that more than one cluster relating to a certain personal contact is created by the clustering process e.g. there are two contacts with a first name Joe that do not have a surname and thus two clusters are created for both Joes system can utilize the calculated ranks in order to present the user with the clusters ordered from the highest ranked clusters to the lowest ranked ones.

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Turning to there is shown a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for sharing data between users of the system in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

In some cases system can enable a user to share data e.g. data items clusters meta clusters . A user can choose to share data with one or more other users of his choice. Alternatively or additionally a user can share data with a public list. A public list is a group of data items and or clusters that is accessible to users according to permissions that can be managed for example by the user that created the list .

The sharing process performed e.g. by utilizing sharing management module begins when a certain user chooses to share certain data e.g. one or more data items and or clusters and or meta clusters block . In some cases the user can choose to share all of the data that is associated with him e.g. all of the data items clusters and meta clusters that he has . In some cases the user can be required to provide an indication as to what data he wishes to share block .

The user can then select who is the share target i.e. who to share the data with e.g. one or more users a public list etc. block and a share request indicating that the user is interested in sharing data with the share target is sent to the selected share target block .

System can be configured to check if the share target is a public list or one or more users block . If the share target is one or more user system can be configured to check if the one or more users accept the share e.g. by providing such users with a request to authorize receiving the share block .

In some cases if the share target does not accept the share system can be configured to update the user accordingly block . If however the share target does accept the share the shared data can be sent to the share target block and system can be configured to activate process described with reference to herein block .

In some cases system can be configured to provide the share target with a suggestion to share data with the user that initiated the share block . In case the share target agrees to share data with the user that initiated the share system can be configured to save the sharing definition in data repository in some cases the sharing definition can be used in order to enable updating the share targets with any change of the shared data performed at later stages in order to enable updating the data accordingly for the share target block and to activate process described with reference to herein over the data that the share target chose to share with the user that initiated the share block .

In case the share target does not agree to share data with the user that initiated the share system can be configured to save the sharing definition in data repository in some cases the sharing definition can be used in order to enable updating the share targets with any change of the shared data performed at later stages in order to enable updating the data accordingly for the share target block .

In case the share target is a public list system can be configured to check if the user has permission to share with the selected public list block . In some cases if the user does not have permission to share with the selected public list the share target system can be configured to update the user accordingly block . If however the user does have permission to share with the selected public list the share target the shared data can be sent to the share target block and system can be configured to activate process described with reference to herein block .

In some cases system can be further configured to check if the user has permission to read data from the selected public list block . If not system can be configured to store the sharing definition in data repository in some cases the sharing definition can be used in order to enable updating the share targets with any change of the shared data performed at later stages in order to enable updating the data accordingly for the share target block . If yes system can be configured to save the sharing definition in data repository in some cases the sharing definition can be used in order to enable updating the share targets with any change of the shared data performed at later stages in order to enable updating the data accordingly for the share target block and to activate process described with reference to herein over the data that associated with the selected public list block .

It is to be noted that the original ownership metadata detail is maintained also when data items associated with the ownership metadata detail are shared with other users public lists. This enables inter alia a user that chose to share certain data to cancel the share and remove the shared data shared with the share target.

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

Attention is drawn to showing a flowchart illustrating one example of a sequence of operations carried out for maintaining a global relationships table and associating data items with additional metadata in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

In some cases system can be configured to maintain a global relationships table. Such a table can include information on relationships between various values of various data items as determined by the clustering process irrespective of the data items owner. Thus for each data item relating to a certain cluster an indication about its relationship with each of the data items relating to such cluster will be maintained in the global relationships table. Assuming for example that a certain cluster comprising three data items having the values A B and C respectively is created an indication of a relationship between the value A and the value B between the value A and the value C between the value B and the value C and between the value A and the value C is introduced into the global relationships table.

It is to be noted that in some cases additional clusters can comprise data items having similar values to values already stored within the global relationships table. Thus in some cases for each relationship a counter or other indicator can be maintained indicating how many occurrences of such a relationship exists. In some cases such counter can be utilized during the clustering process as further detailed below.

In some cases the global relationship management process performed e.g. by utilizing global analytics module can begin by receiving data about new and or updated clusters block . Upon receipt of the data items relating to the new and or updated cluster system can be configured to update the global relationships table accordingly block . Thus if a new cluster is detected system can be configured to introduce data indicative of the relationships between the various values of the various data items comprising the cluster into the global relationships table. If a certain cluster is updated system can be configured to introduce only relationships relating to the changes e.g. new and or updated data items into the global relationships table.

In some cases system can be further configured to scan the global relationships table for any existing relationship data indicative of a relationship between one or more values of new and or updated data items relating to the new and or updated cluster and between other values. In case such relationships are found system can be configured to check if the other value exists in the data matrix relating to the user. If so system can be configured to associate each data item to which the relationship data related with a metadata detail indicative of the value to which its value is related and to trigger execution of the clustering process while taking into account any new metadata details introduced at this stage block . In some cases the weight indicative of the strength assigned to the relationship between the data item and the metadata detail that is newly associated therewith can be dependent on the counter or other indicator described above. If the other value does not exist in the data matrix relating to the user the system ignores the relationship information relating to it.

It is to be noted with reference to that some of the blocks can be integrated into a consolidated block or can be broken down to a few blocks and or other blocks may be added. Furthermore in some cases the blocks can be performed in a different order than described herein. It should also be noted that whilst the flow diagrams are described also with reference to the system elements that realize them this is by no means binding and the blocks can be performed by elements other than those described herein.

It is to be understood that the presently disclosed subject matter is not limited in its application to the details set forth in the description contained herein or illustrated in the drawings. The presently disclosed subject matter is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Hence it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for designing other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present presently disclosed subject matter.

It will also be understood that the system according to the presently disclosed subject matter may be a suitably programmed computer. Likewise the presently disclosed subject matter contemplates a computer program being readable by a computer for executing the method of the presently disclosed subject matter. The presently disclosed subject matter further contemplates a machine readable memory tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine for executing the method of the presently disclosed subject matter.

