---

title: Orchestration management of information technology
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to a system, method, or computer program product for an orchestration management database (OMDB). The OMDB provides for aggregation of vendor and bank data necessary for information technology infrastructure deployment, management, and federation. Utilizing cloud computing technology the OMDB provides an aggregation of all data necessary for information technology infrastructures within an entity into one useable database that dramatically simplifies the ability to do core functions and integrate external vendors and components with the entity's information technology infrastructure. In this way, the present invention modularly stores data required for an entity's information technology infrastructure and allows for easy deployment, intelligent monitoring, federation of data, and feedback associated with all aspects of the entity's information technology infrastructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378064&OS=09378064&RS=09378064
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09378064
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121115
---
Traditional information technology infrastructures for entities usually require several operating environments vendor resource deployment authentication repositories and mechanisms and several application servers working together in order to operate a large entity s information technology.

Furthermore installing and or implementing core functions such as new software or hardware within an entity s information technology infrastructure requires several time consuming steps. For example ordering and installing a new physical server and or associate work station requires a logical process to load the necessary operating systems secure the server install applications ensure licensing from proper vendors and the like. In some cases this process can take several weeks or months to become operational for all users within the entity.

Furthermore the new physical server and or associate work station may have hardware or software features that provide functionality to the physical server and or associate work station that are not being utilized. For example the associate work station may have a large amount of memory that the associate may have requested but may not be utilized. Thus the entity may be paying for information technology infrastructures that are not being utilized to their fullest capacity.

Therefore a need exists for a logical management system of information technologies within an entity that drastically limits the time required for core functions to be completed and intelligently monitors the core functions once implemented.

The following presents a simplified summary of all embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of all embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for providing an orchestration management database for aggregating vendor and bank data necessary for information technology infrastructure deployment and federation. Thus the orchestration management database provides an aggregation of all information into one useable database that dramatically simplifies the ability to do core functions as well as to integrate external vendors and components with the entity s information technology infrastructure and monitoring of the same.

In some embodiments the system may provide an information technology cloud for vendors and entities to place information technology resources such as data hardware and or software on the cloud for utilization within an entity s information technology infrastructure.

In some embodiments the information on the cloud may be modularized via the orchestration management database OMDB such that all critical data necessary for information technology infrastructure deployment monitoring and federation is stored and or provided by the OMDB. The OMDB is capable of handling the dynamic rate of data change that occurs in an entity information technology environment and is able to connect all of the components together as an intersection point of data. This provides an aggregate module location of all information. In some embodiments the OMDB may also modularize user workstations vendors and other aspects of the information technology infrastructure such that critical data required for information technology throughout an entity may be centrally located for easy monitoring deployment federation and the like.

In some embodiments the centralized OMDB in tandem with other resource managers provides for touch less deployment of information technology infrastructure components. In this way instead of taking several information technology professionals several days weeks months to set up a new server operating system user workstation or the like the OMDB is able to provide the critical information technology data necessary to deploy that information technology infrastructure component within minutes and without having to utilize information technology professionals. By utilizing the cloud in conjunction with the OMDB all critical information technology resources are quickly accessible and implementable onto a newly deployed information technology infrastructure component. As such the OMDB provides an aggregation of the information technology resources necessary to build and or deploy information technology systems within the information technology infrastructure.

In some embodiments the centralized OMDB is capable of intelligent management of the information technology infrastructure including the cloud and user systems. Intelligent management includes monitoring providing feedback for the information technology infrastructure and aiding in the federation of data. This management ensures the proper building of information technology infrastructure components and the day to day operation of the cloud. For example if a new IP address is required for a new information technology infrastructure component the intelligent management may not select an IP address within the entity that was recently closed. But instead may select an IP address within the entity that has been closed for several days. This way if that IP address was closed by accident the information technology component that previously had the IP address may be able to retrieve and revive the address for that prior component. This cycling algorithm ensures that the information technology resources selected to be implemented during a build of an information technology component may not be recalled for a prior implementation.

Furthermore the monitoring of the information technology infrastructure allows for monitoring of every information technology infrastructure component built the information technology resources used for the builds the data on the cloud the inventory available capacity available performance billing building sequences or the like that may be necessary to build and or operate an information technology infrastructure for an entity.

The intelligent management also provides for feedback related to the OMDB and corresponding information technology infrastructure including the cloud and user systems. In this way users may request and obtain in near real time feedback related to the information technology infrastructure. For example a user may request feedback related to the capacity available on the user s system a line of business set of systems or an entire entity s system. Therefore a user may be able to receive feedback based on the monitoring of either a single component within the information technology infrastructure or the entire information technology infrastructure. In some embodiments the feedback may be provided to a user based on a user recommendation of feedback. In other embodiments the system may automatically provide feedback to a user based on an event occurring within the information technology infrastructure.

In some embodiments the OMDB system provides for the federation of information technology resources. Federation of information technology resources allows the OMDB system to push and or pull information technology resources to from the OMDB cloud user systems and the like. In this way if a component within the information technology infrastructure is not utilizing all information technology resources provided to it the OMDB may be able to pull that data from the component and push it to another component that may utilize the data. For example if a user system is provided with 4 GB of memory however monitoring shows that that user system only ever utilizes 1 GB of memory. The OMDB may notify other components which can re allocate the memory resources on the user system more efficiently. Furthermore the federation aspect of the OMDB system allows the system to communicate with external systems when information technology resources are required from the external system for building an information technology component within the information technology infrastructure.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for providing aggregation of vendor and entity data for an information technology infrastructure the method comprising receiving information technology resources at a platform wherein the information technology resources comprises data that an entity requests for use within the information technology infrastructure determining the information technology resources on the platform necessary for deploying and building components within the information technology infrastructure such that the information technology resources are deployable in a step by step sequence for building the components within the information technology infrastructure creating a dynamic list of the information technology resources and step by step sequence for building the components wherein the dynamic list is stored in real time deploying the information technology resources in the step by step sequence for building of a user system within the information technology infrastructure wherein the deployment is automated and does not require user activation or involvement to deploy the information technology resources from the platform monitoring in real time the information technology infrastructure including the platform user systems and the information technology resources being utilized within the information technology infrastructure and federating information technology resources from a first user system that is determined to be underutilizing information technology resources the underutilized information technology resource may be removed from the first user system and queued to be cycled into a second user system.

In some embodiments the monitoring of the information technology infrastructure further includes monitoring in real time the inventory capacity performance billing and sequence of the components of the information technology infrastructure.

In some embodiments the platform comprises a cloud wherein the cloud allows for real time access to a shared pool of information technology resources wherein the cloud is accessible by vendors and users of the information technology infrastructure.

In some embodiments determining the information technology resources on the platform necessary for deploying and building components within the information technology infrastructure further comprises determining information technology resources required for deploying and building components within the information technology infrastructure that is not on the platform communicating with external sources to obtain the information technology resources required for deploying and building components within the information technology infrastructure that is not on the platform and providing to the platform the information technology resources required for deploying and building components within the information technology infrastructure that is not on the platform.

Embodiments of the invention further comprise providing real time storage via in some embodiments an offline database and maintenance of the information technology resources the platform the information technology infrastructure and individual user systems of the information technology resources wherein the maintenance is determined independent of user indication of a problem via the monitoring of the information technology infrastructure.

Embodiments of the invention further comprise an intelligent platform manager that determines communications between the user system and the platform.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Furthermore when it is said herein that something is based on something else it may be based on one or more other things as well. In other words unless expressly indicated otherwise as used herein based on means based at least in part on or based at least partially on. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term information technology resources as used herein includes any data or resources that may be needed for an entity to provide information technology infrastructure. For example this data may include software hardware memory storage programs operating systems programming notes instructions output resulting from the use of any software program including word processing documents spreadsheets database files charts graphs and outlines electronic mail or e mail personal digital assistant PDA messages instant messenger messages source code of all types programming languages linkers and compilers peripheral drives PDF files PRF files batch files ASCII files crosswalks code keys pull down tables logs file layouts and any and all miscellaneous files or file fragments deleted file or file fragment. Information technology resources may also include any and all items stored on computer memory or memories hard disks floppy disks zip drives CD ROM discs Bernoulli Boxes and their equivalents magnetic tapes of all types and kinds microfiche punched cards punched tape computer chips including but not limited to EPROM PROM ROM and RAM of any kind on or in any other vehicle for digital data storage or transmittal files folder tabs or containers and labels appended to or associated with any physical storage device associated with each original and each copy. In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term information technology infrastructure as used herein refers to the totality of interconnecting hardware and software that supports the flow and processing of information. Information technology infrastructures include all information technology resources physical components and the like that make up the computing internet communications networking transmission media or the like of an entity.

Furthermore embodiments of the present invention use the term user. It will be appreciated by someone with ordinary skill in the art that the user may be an individual financial institution corporation or other entity that may require electronic data software and or hardware though an information technology infrastructure. Embodiments of the present invention also use the term vendor to describe a company business individual or other entity that provides systems software hardware and other technology required for operation of an entity.

Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution. Still in other embodiments of the invention the financial institution described herein may be replaced with other types of entities that have an information technology infrastructure.

As further illustrated in once the cloud has been populated the system may then aggregate the critical data related to information technology on to the orchestration management database as illustrated in block . The critical data may include but is not limited to all vendor provided data or entity provided data located on the cloud. This data may include data such as information technology resources and or any other data that may be utilized for an information technology infrastructure of an entity or the users of the information technology infrastructure. The aggregated critical data is then compartmentalized within the single usable database such that a dramatically simplification of the entity s ability to do core functions of information technology and provide integration with external vendors and components is achieved.

Next as illustrated in block the personalized system may be built using the information technology resources on the cloud. The personalized system may be built based on a user needs and the information technology resources on the cloud. For example if a user needs a specific amount of memory computer hardware software and the like for his her work station the system may provide and or activate those needs for the user via the cloud. Next as illustrated in block the system may provide intelligent management of the cloud and the systems built within the entity s information technology infrastructure. Intelligent management allows the system to be managed without user monitoring. The system may be able to monitor the vendors on the cloud the use of the cloud the use of all information technology resources on each of the user s devices and the like without having to have an individual monitor the data.

As further illustrated in the intelligent management of the system allows for monitoring and feedback for the system as illustrated in block . In this way if an individual wishes to receive feedback on inventory capacity performance billing mechanical sequences next building processes and the like the individual does not have reach out to the user s workstation or individual server complexes to determine the information. The individual may be provided this feedback information from the system because this information is available within the OMDB.

Finally as illustrated in block the OMDB system provides for federation of information technology resources. Federation of information technology resources allows the OMDB system to push and or pull information technology resources to from the OMDB cloud user systems and the like. In this way if a component within the information technology infrastructure is not being utilized to its maximum capacity the OMDB may be able to pull that data form the component and push it to another component that may utilize the data. For example if a user system is provided with 4 GB of memory during the initial building of the user s system but it is determined that the user s system only utilizes a peak of 1 GB of memory. The OMDB may notify other components which can re allocate the memory resources on the user system more efficiently.

The cloud may allow for on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable resources provided by the OMDB user system or the vendor systems . These resources may include but are not limited to information technology resources such as hardware software networks servers storage services applications systems programs packages or the like and updates or programs to operate the same. The OMDB allows for these information technology resources to be rapidly provisioned and released within the modular system. The network access may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments information technology resources may be stored on the cloud and not at a local computing device such that the memory of the local computing device is not affected by the work associated with the resources on the cloud . Furthermore the cloud may provide processing capabilities such that the user may run the information technology resources on the cloud and not on his her local computing device. In this way a shared pool of information technology resources may be accessed processed and stored by users of the OMDB cloud computing system all within the cloud . In some embodiments the OMDB may modularly store the information technology resources that may be accessible via the cloud . In this way the data and associated resources may be stored on the OMDB and not on the cloud .

The cloud in some embodiments may take the form of several different service and or deployment models as required by the managing entity of the cloud . The service models include but are not limited to cloud software as a service cloud application as a service cloud platform as a service and count infrastructure as a service. Cloud software as a service model provides the user with the ability to run programs and applications on the cloud infrastructure as opposed to the user system . Cloud application as a service is similar to cloud software as a service but in this model the user is able to specify and save customer server configurations and application templates. Cloud platform as a service allows a user to be able to deploy onto the cloud user created or acquired applications and programs. Cloud infrastructure as a service allows a user to control portions of the cloud s operating systems deployment applications storage networking and other fundamental computing resources of the cloud .

The deployment models may include but are not limited to private model public model community model and hybrid model. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a private model. The private model allows the cloud to only be used only be a single entity. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a public model. The public model allows the cloud to be available to the public or to multiple entities. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a community model. The community model allows the cloud to be accessed and or used by a group of related entities. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a hybrid model. In the hybrid model the cloud may be used both publicly and privately based on the provider s requests.

The various service and or deployment models of the cloud may each be utilized for the cloud associated with the OMDB system environment . However some models may require more monitoring than others. For example in the public deployment model a larger number of users may access the cloud and therefore there is more likely going to be a security issue simply based on the number of individuals who have access to the cloud and the data or applications located on the cloud . In some embodiments a private cloud may provide the most security protection to the financial institution and other users of the cloud .

In some embodiments the user is an individual. The individual may be an associate and or other employee within a financial institution. In other embodiments the user may be a financial institution government organization corporation or other entity with an information technology infrastructure. The user may wish to retrieve vendor provided information technology resources off of the cloud for use on his her user system . In some embodiments the user may be provided with information technology resources from the cloud via the OMDB . In the example illustrated in there are two users accessing the cloud through their user systems although one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that any number of users may be accessing the cloud through any number of user systems .

As illustrated in the OMDB generally comprises a communication device a processing device and a memory device . As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the cloud and other devices associated with the cloud such as but not limited to the user systems and the vendor systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with the cloud and other devices associated with the cloud .

As further illustrated in the OMDB comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of an OMDB application and or a OMDB repository In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the financial institution and the management of the cloud including but not limited to data created and or used by the OMDB application .

As described in more detail below the OMDB may provide for the management of the OMDB cloud computing system as well as the deployment monitoring storing and federation of information technology resources within the information technology infrastructure.

In the embodiment illustrated in and described throughout much of this specification the OMDB application manages the information technology infrastructure and activity on the cloud . The OMDB application provides managerial applications for vendors users and entity providing the cloud .

The OMDB application allows for vendors to provide information technology resources to the cloud organizes the vendor s data on the cloud allows for vendors to update data allow for compatibility of vendor s data with user systems enables the vendor to monitor its data on the cloud and the like.

The OMDB application allows for the user to access the cloud select programs or applications on the cloud use the vendor information technology resources store preferences or the like. The OMDB application allows the entity providing the cloud the capability of managing the cloud such as the deployment monitoring and federation of information technology resources on the cloud within the information technology infrastructure.

The OMDB application in some embodiments allows a vendor to provide information technology resources to the cloud . In this way the vendor may seek out and request from the OMDB application for the vendor s data to be added to the cloud . In other embodiments the OMDB application may seek out vendors and request the vendor add data to the cloud . In still other embodiments a vendor may provide the cloud with data independent of any action by the OMDB or the OMDB application . In this way the vendor may have several avenues to provide the cloud with information technology resources and other resources that the particular vendor may provide for the entity s information technology infrastructure.

Once the vendor has provided its information technology to the cloud the OMDB application may modularly separate the vendor data. The vendor data comprising several individual programs applications software or the like from a vendor may be distributed on the cloud and stored in the OMDB within the OMDB repository in close to real time in a modular aggregated means. In this way the OMDB application separates the vendor information technology resources such that it may be easily deployable when building an information technology component.

Next the OMDB application provides the vendor with the ability to access the cloud in order to update the vendor s information technology on the cloud . If the vendor develops new resources such as updated software applications packages programs or the like the OMDB application allows a vendor to update the information technology resources that the entity has on the cloud . In this way the OMDB application allows for in some embodiments an open architecture environment for the vendors to have the ability to install update fix bugs implement new versions or the like of the vendor resources. In some embodiments the vendor may automatically update the vendor s data on the cloud by accessing the cloud via a vendor system . In other embodiments the OMDB application may request the vendor update its data on the cloud . In this way the vendor either through the vendor system or other means may update the information technology resources that the vendor has on the cloud such that users may have access to the latest versions of the vendor s data.

The OMDB application may also allow a user through a user system to compatibly access the cloud and the vendor information technology resources on the cloud . In this way the user may have access to the information technology available to that entity. For example a user may require a specific program to open a document or perform his her tasks. As such the user using the user system may be able to access the cloud through to OMDB to determine if the program is available within the information technology infrastructure of the entity. If the user determines that the program is available he she may request the program be built into his her user system .

If the user is authorized to have the vendor information technology resources built into his her user system the user may receive the information technology resources via the OMDB in real time or near real time.

Furthermore information related to the user system such as a user s preferences with respect to information technology may also be stored within the OMDB application . In this way the OMDB application may monitor the user s preferences as well as the status of each of the information technology components provided to the user system . This aids the OMDB application in the federation of information technology resources to and from the user system based on the user s preferences and use of the information technology on the user system .

The OMDB application also allows the entity providing the cloud the capability of managing the cloud such as the deployment monitoring and federation of information technology resources on the cloud . In some embodiments the OMDB application modularizes the information technology resources on the cloud such that the data may be easily provided in a checklist deployed and monitored. In this way OMDB application is capable of handling the dynamic rate of data change that occurs in an entity information technology environment and is able to connect all of the components together as an intersection point of data. This provides an aggregate module location of all information. Therefore the OMDB application may store the data structure that may define the information technology data required for building information technology components and or systems. The resource managers in the cloud environment may in some embodiments may allow for collecting data necessary to build and communicate with the OMDB to store a dynamic list of all the information technology resources that is required for building one or more information technology components and or systems. In this way the OMDB application may know exactly how much of each information technology resources are required for building. For example a server may be being built because of the OMDB application dynamic list the OMDB application may know prior to starting the build whether the information technology infrastructure may need the new server and or if the information technology infrastructure has the capacity to accept the new server. Furthermore the dynamic list may also aid in determining the information technology resources that the server may need that is either available via the cloud or that may need to be purchased from an outside vendor.

In some embodiments the OMDB application provides for touch less deployment of information technology infrastructure data and or components. In this way instead of taking several information technology professionals several days weeks months to set up and build information technology infrastructure components and or systems such as a new server operating system user workstation or the like the OMDB application is able to work with other resource managers to provide the critical processes in the proper step by step fashion in order to deploy that information technology resources or information technology infrastructure components required for the building process within minutes and without having to utilize information technology professionals. Because the OMDB application has the capabilities to monitor the cloud and the information technology resources located on the cloud and throughout the information technology infrastructure the OMDB application may quickly obtain all information technology required for deployment of a new build or the like. This significantly shortens the amount of time required to determine if the appropriate information technology resources are available obtaining the information technology and building based off of the information technology resources. As such by utilizing the cloud in conjunction with the OMDB application all critical information technology resources are quickly accessible and implementable onto a newly deployed information technology infrastructure component.

In some embodiments the OMDB application is capable of intelligent management of the information technology infrastructure including the cloud and any system associated with the cloud including but not limited to user systems and or vendor systems . Intelligent management includes monitoring providing feedback for the information technology infrastructure the cloud and the OMDB application as well as aiding in federation of information technology resources. Furthermore the management ensures the proper building of information technology infrastructure components using information technology resources.

The intelligent management of the OMDB application allows for monitoring of the information technology infrastructure including the cloud and any system associated with the cloud including but not limited to user systems and or vendor systems . The OMDB application monitors every information technology infrastructure component and or system being built the information technology resources used for the builds the data on the cloud the OMDB repository the inventory available capacity available performance billing building sequences or the like that may be necessary to build and or operate an information technology infrastructure for an entity. The monitoring may ensure that all necessary aspects for a build maintenance federation or the like are available within the infrastructure in order to maintain a properly functioning information technology infrastructure within an entity.

The intelligent management of the OMDB application allows for providing feedback relating to the information technology infrastructure including the cloud and any system associated with the cloud including but not limited to user systems and or vendor systems . The feedback allows a user of the information technology infrastructure to request and or obtain in near real time feedback related to the information technology infrastructure. For example a user may request feedback related to the capacity available on a user system a line of business set of systems or an entire entity s system. Therefore a user may be able to receive feedback based on the monitoring of either a single information technology resources a single component within the information technology infrastructure and or the entire information technology infrastructure. In some embodiments the feedback may be provided to a user based on a user recommendation of feedback. In other embodiments the OMDB application may automatically provide feedback to a user based on an event occurring within the information technology infrastructure. For example if it is determined that a specific individual user is to be notified each time a new system and or component within the information technology infrastructure is being built the OMDB application may recognize this requirement and notify the proper user .

The intelligent management of the OMDB application allows for proper building of information technology infrastructure components and or systems that use information technology resources. Utilizing the deployment capabilities of the OMDB application the OMDB application is capable of working with other components in the cloud environment to ensure that all build steps are completed. The sequence and order of build steps is modeled in the workflows of the vendor system . The final disposition of all building steps is stored in the OMDB application and is used to notify the user system of success of failure of the build. This way the OMDB application allows for seamless touch less building of information technology infrastructure components and or systems.

The OMDB application allows for a cycling algorithm that ensures the information technology resources selected to be implemented during federation and or building of an information technology component and or system may not need to be recalled for a prior implementation. For example if a new IP address is required for a new information technology infrastructure system the OMDB application may have several IP address available for deployment from the cloud or the OMDB repository . However the OMDB application may have to select an appropriate IP address for that particular system. In some cases the IP address may correspond to a line of business office location of the entity or the like. In other cases the IP address may have recently been closed and therefore it may be likely that the IP address may be required to be re opened. The cycling algorithm ensures that the proper information technology resources in this example IP address is being utilized during the build. The cycling algorithm of the OMDB application prevents information technology resources from being selected for new building until after the OMDB application has ensured that the information technology resources will not be needed for a previous function. For example if that IP address was closed by accident the information technology system that previously had the IP address may be able to retrieve and revive the address for that prior system. This cycling algorithm ensures that the information technology resources selected to be implemented during a build of an information technology component may not be recalled for a prior implementation.

In some embodiments the OMDB application provides for the federation of information technology resources. Federation of information technology resources allows the OMDB application to push and or pull information technology resources to from the OMDB the cloud user systems and the like. In this way if a component within the information technology infrastructure is not utilizing all information technology resources provided to it the OMDB may be able to pull that data from the component and push it to another component that may utilize the data. For example if a user system is provided with 4 GB of memory however monitoring shows that that user system only ever utilizes 1 GB of memory. The OMDB application may notify other components such as those associated with the network which can re allocate the memory resources on the user system more efficiently. Furthermore the federation aspect of the OMDB application allows the system to communicate with external systems when information technology resources are required from the external system for building an information technology component within the information technology infrastructure.

In the embodiment illustrated in and described throughout much of this specification the OMDB repository provides a storage repository for the critical data associated with the cloud critical data associated with the information technology infrastructure data lists and the like. The OMDB repository is capable of storing these data in real time or near thereto such that if necessary the information technology infrastructure can be accessed through the OMDB repository .

The OMDB repository may also allow for storage of the vendor information technology resources. In some embodiments the vendor information technology may be stored on the cloud . In some embodiments the vendor information technology may be stored in the OMDB repository . In yet other embodiments the vendor information technology may be stored on the user system . Along with the vendor information technology the OMDB repository may also store applicable software for data compatibility and the like.

The OMDB repository also allows for storage of each of the user system preferences user system usage and information technology components on the cloud . In this way user information associated with his her information technology resources usage components and the like may be stored within the OMDB repository . In this way the user s use of data associated with the information technology infrastructure as a whole may be monitored in order to better provide information technology aid to the user as well as provide for federation of information technology resources if necessary.

As further illustrated in the vendor system comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of a vendor application . In this way in some embodiments a vendor may be able to provide information technology resources to the cloud organize their information technology resources on the cloud update their information technology resources on the cloud and the like using the vendor application . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the vendor system including but not limited to data created and or used by the vendor application .

The vendor application allows a vendor to provide information technology resources such as software programs and the like to an entity. The entity may then in some embodiments place the vendor provided information technology resources on to the cloud . In other embodiments the vendor may be able to place information technology resources onto the cloud directly via the vendor system . In this way the vendor may be able to populate the cloud with any information technology the vendor may distribute by using any vendor system .

The vendor application further allows the vendor to access the cloud to update and monitor the vendor s information technology resources on the cloud . In this way the vendor through the use of the vendor system may access the cloud such that the vendor may provide the latest updates to the information technology resources that the vendor may have previously provided to the cloud . In this way the information technology infrastructure of the entity may be able to provide the user with access to the most updated version of the vendor s information technology resources. Furthermore the host of the cloud may not have to provide the updates to the vendor information technology on the cloud the vendor may be able to access the cloud and independently provide updates to the vendor s data on the cloud .

As further illustrated in the user system comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of a user cloud application . In this way in some embodiments the user cloud application may allow the OMDB access to the information technology resources associated with the user system for monitoring building and or federation of data. Furthermore the user cloud application may allow a user to access the cloud use the vendor information technology resources on the cloud and or the like. In some embodiments the user cloud application allows a user to utilize the vendor information technology resources via the processing device of the user system . In some embodiments the user may utilize the cloud s processing capabilities to run vendor information technology resources.

In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the user system including but not limited to data created and or used by the user cloud application . A user system may be any communication device including mobile devices personal digital assistant PDA a mobile Internet accessing device or other user system including but not limited to PDAs pagers televisions gaming devices laptop computers desktop computers cameras video recorders audio video player radio GPS devices other information technology infrastructure components such as servers tablets interfaces or the like or any combination of the aforementioned or the like.

It is understood that the servers systems and devices described herein illustrate one embodiment of the invention. It is further understood that one or more of the servers systems and devices can be combined in other embodiments and still function in the same or similar way as the embodiments described herein.

Since cloud computing technology is relatively new there is some risk associated with its adoption. The primary risk is that the cloud does not provide adequate security safeguards. This is due to the amount of users and other potential third parties that may be able to access the cloud . Additional risks may include immaturity of resources on the cloud a lack of auditing capability and or the like. In order to better provide adequate security safeguards in some embodiments the cloud is provided such that the OMDB facilitates any communications from user systems to the cloud as illustrated in .

Once the vendor information technology resources is on the cloud the OMDB may act as an intermediary between user systems within the information technology infrastructure. In this way the individual user systems may not have direct contact with either vendor systems and or vendor information technology resources . In this way the user systems and the entity s entire information technology infrastructure may be protected from potential threats such as viruses malware and the like that may be associated with the vendor information technology resources .

Furthermore the OMDB may set up portals within the cloud that are associated with different user systems line of business entity locations criticalness of the data and or the like. Portals in some embodiments are based on the proximity and locality requirements a user may have for a technology infrastructure system. In this way the OMDB may modularize portals depending on the information technology resources such that the OMDB may quickly access the portal associated with a specific user system or the like.

In this way the OMDB may be able to monitor build push pull communicate between the information technology infrastructure and the cloud and provide feedback for the information technology infrastructure based on the OMDB being an intermediary between the information technology infrastructure and the cloud . Furthermore the OMDB is capable of handling the dynamic rate of data change that occurs in an the technology infrastructure environment and is able to connect all of the pieces of the information technology infrastructure to the cloud such that the OMDB may act as an intersection between the information technology infrastructure and the cloud . However even with all of the data passing through the OMDB the OMDB is capable of handling this amount of data and still able to perform the monitoring building federation and the like functions within the information technology infrastructure.

Once the information technology resources are received the cloud is populated with the data. The cloud may have all the information technology resources associated with the information technology infrastructure such that vendors may be able to provide updates to their data and user systems may be implemented with information technology resources in near to real time by simply pushing the data from the cloud to the user system . The data on the cloud access to the cloud and other aspects of the cloud may be monitored by the OMDB via the OMDB monitoring functionality .

The OMDB modularly manages the cloud . As such the cloud may be accessed by the OMDB and the OMDB may direct information technology from the cloud to the various user systems . The OMDB also provides a repository and monitoring functionality for the cloud and the rest of the information technology infrastructure. The repository may store all the information technology resources associated with the information technology infrastructure including the location of information technology resources lists of critical components lists of builds and the like. This information may in some embodiments be pushed from the OMDB in real time or close thereto. In other embodiments this information may be pulled from the OMDB by the repository in real time or close thereto.

The OMDB may provide monitoring functionality for the information technology infrastructure. As such the OMDB may monitor the information technology resources on the cloud the user system in the federation process when the information technology is being utilized and or when the information technology has stopped being used by system of the information technology infrastructure . In this way the OMDB may be able to monitor the information technology resources no matter what point the data is within the information technology infrastructure. This allows the OMDB to may determinations as to the best ways to optimize the information technology resources usage within the information technology infrastructure.

As illustrated in once the OMDB determines the location of information technology resources from the cloud the information technology resources may be pushed to the user system that the OMDB determines may utilize the information technology. Once the OMDB pushes the information technology resources to the user system the user of the user system may be able to utilize the information technology resources instantaneously or close thereto.

In some embodiments the OMDB may determine in decision block to federate the information technology resources on the user system . Federation of data may include the pushing and or pulling of data to from the user system based on the OMDB determination of where the information technology resources may be best utilized. If it is determined that information technology resources form the user system is to be federated to another system in block the information technology resources may be removed from the user system and brought back to the OMDB .

In some embodiments the addition of or subtraction of information technology resources to and or from a user system component or other system of the information technology infrastructure may be done smoothly such that the user of the system may not be disturbed from his her utilization of the system. In this way the OMDB may be able to move unused information technology resources from the user system quickly without affecting the work flow of the user . For example if the user system is provided with 4 GB of memory initial from the OMDB . However monitoring from the OMDB shows that that user system is only utilizing 1 GB of memory. The OMDB may notify other components which can re allocate the memory resources on the user system more efficiently. This may allow the OMDB to strategically manage the information technology infrastructure in a way that optimizes both the entity s information technology systems but also cost related to the information technology implemented throughout the entity.

As further illustrated in if the OMDB determines that no federation of information technology resources are needed at that time for the information technology resources that is associated with the user system the information technology resources may be utilized by the user of the user system as illustrated in block . Furthermore the OMDB may continually monitor the information technology resources as it is being used on the user system .

Once the information technology resources has been used the OMDB may determine that the information technology resources has reached the end of its life on the user system as illustrated in block . This may be determined by the OMDB via the OMDB monitoring . The information technology resources may then be cycled back up to the OMDB and the cloud as illustrated in block . This cycling may utilize a cycling algorithm to ensure that the data does not need to be re utilized by the previous user system prior to the OMDB implementing the information technology resources into building a new system. The cycling information technology is also used when data is federated from a user system . The cycling again ensures that prior to providing the federated data from the user system to another system it is not needed by the user system .

As further illustrated in the OMDB through the OMDB application may provide for an offline operational compartment . The offline operational compartment allows the OMDB to run efficiently without impacting the real time online performance of the OMDB . As such the offline operational compartment allows for real time data storage such that any information that is collected by the OMDB may be stored briefly in the real time data storage prior to being stored in backup or a repository. Furthermore the offline operational compartment allows for data queries and transfers . Again so there is no impact on the online operational compartment of the OMDB bulk data queries may be directed to the offline operational compartment . In this way the offline operational compartment can respond and review data queries without slowing down the operational speed of the OMDB and the information technology infrastructure. The offline operational compartment also allows for transfers of information technology resources throughout the information technology infrastructure without slowing down the operational speed of the OMDB and the information technology infrastructure. The transferring or federation of data may occur based on the monitoring of the information technology infrastructure from the online operational compartment .

As further illustrated in the OMDB through the OMDB application may provide for a backup operational compartment . The backup operational compartment provides an at real time or close thereto copy of information technology resources and the current status of the OMDB in case of a malfunction in the online and or offline operational compartments. The backup operational compartment also comprises a Structured Query Language SQL application designed for managing data in relation to database management systems such as those associated with the OMDB and or the information technology infrastructure.

The automation intelligence workload manager provides the intelligent management of the information technology infrastructure. The automation intelligent workload manager manages the workload of the information technology infrastructure. In this way the workload manager may monitor the workload of the systems of the information technology infrastructure such that information technology resources may be federated based on workload of the systems of the infrastructure.

The network further comprises a controller . The controller aids in directing the designated files for NAS storage monitoring the network and for the SAN fabric . The SAN fabric storage area network fabric spans the information technology infrastructure to connect the user systems other workstations or servers of the information technology infrastructure to storage devices such as the NAS storage and the OMDB. The SAN fabric allows for connectivity through all of the devices within the information technology infrastructure.

As illustrated in the intelligence workload manager may monitor the systems within the information technology infrastructure network . In the illustration of there are three different virtual local area networks VLAN illustrated. However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any number of VLAN may be present within the information technology infrastructure. As illustrated VLAN VLAN and VLANx all comprising a plurality of hypervisors within each of the VLANs. The hypervisors are virtual managers of individual user systems within an information technology infrastructure. As such in the example illustrated in there are three VLANs that each comprise a plurality of user systems with hypervisors virtually managing each of the user systems . The hypervisors provide the OMDB with an indication as to the use of the information technology resources within each user system . For example as illustrated in one of the hypervisors within VLANx is only using a limited number of the information technology resources deployed to the user system associated with the hypervisor . Because the OMDB provides an intelligence workload manager that is capable of monitoring each of the information technology infrastructures including the networks VLANs and individual hypervisors associated with each user system the OMDB is capable of determining which user systems may be over capacity or under capacity with respect to the information technology resources the user system is utilizing.

As illustrated in a monitoring display illustrates several different statuses within each hypervisor. A hypervisor that is utilizing approximately half of its designated information technology resources associated with it is illustrated as hypervisor . A hypervisor that is utilizing all of its information technology resources associated with it is illustrated as hypervisor . A hypervisor that is using none of the information technology resources associated with it is illustrated as hypervisor . A hypervisor that is using one third of the information technology resources associated with it is illustrated as hypervisor . In each of these cases the OMDB may be able to drill down within each hypervisor to determine specifically what information technology resources are being utilized and what information technology resources are not being utilized. In this way the OMDB may pinpoint specific information technology resources such as a particular program memory or the like that is not being utilized such that it may determine federation for that specific information technology resources. Furthermore the monitoring of the information technology infrastructure allows for monitoring of every information technology infrastructure component built the information technology resources used for the builds the data on the cloud the inventory available capacity available performance billing building sequences or the like that may be necessary to build and or operate an information technology infrastructure for an entity.

In some embodiments the monitoring of individual hypervisors with the ability to drill down to the individual information technology resources being utilized by the user system may further allow the OMDB to provide feedback with respect to the operational status of the information technology resources. For example the monitoring of single information technology resources within a user system may recognize an error or virus within an information technology resources within a single user system . As such the recognized error may be sent in the form of feedback to a user or other individual such that the error may be monitored and or fixed to ensure smooth operation of the rest of the information technology infrastructure.

As further illustrated in the automation intelligence workload manager of the OMDB may provide reserved hypervisors . These reserved hypervisors may be reserved for several functions of the OMDB . For example the OMDB may be reserving these and the information data associated therewith in the cycling such that they may be federated.

Referring back to the OMDB application further comprises a modular component resource manager . illustrates the modularization of the resource manager of the OMDB . The resource manager works with the automation intelligence workload manager in order to operate the OMDB and cloud within the information technology infrastructure in order to optimize the information technology infrastructure for the entity.

As illustrated in the resource manager provides the application building and launching module such that the systems within the information technology infrastructure may be built using the information technology resources associated with the cloud and the OMDB . The resource manager comprises modular component associated with the management of compute resource analysis hypervisors configuration management identity management network automation provisions system management integration cloud intelligence management hypervisor management usage tracking and storage .

The compute resource analysis provides analysis and or monitoring of data associated with the computing resources used within the information technology infrastructure. For example it may monitor the capacity speed program capabilities and the like of any one or more systems within the information technology infrastructure.

The hypervisors and the hypervisor management are also managed by the resource manager . In this way each hypervisor that allows individual systems to share a single host system can be monitored and or managed singularly or in combination with a group of hypervisors to ensure that they are properly working and communicating with the host system.

The configuration management allows modular management of how each of the user systems hypervisors and or other systems on the information technology infrastructure are configured to operate together within the information technology infrastructure and furthermore how they communicate with one another.

The network automation allows for modular management of the network within the information technology infrastructure. In this way the network or networks within the information technology infrastructure may be monitored automated maintained and transitioned based on use and or the like.

The system management integration allows for integration into one modular management component the management of all aspects associated with the information technology infrastructure such as the cloud OMDB user systems and the like. This way in some embodiments one modular component may be able to quickly access allow user visualization and management of the entire information technology infrastructure.

The cloud intelligence management allows for modular management of the cloud and who is able to access the cloud . In this way the cloud intelligence management may determine which vendors may provide information technology on the cloud which users of the information technology infrastructure may access the cloud and what type of information technology resources are allowed on the cloud . Furthermore the cloud intelligence management may monitor what type of information technology resources are on the cloud and what type of information technology resources may need to be on the cloud . As such the cloud intelligence management may be able to reach out to vendors or the like. that may provide specific information technology resources and allow them access to the cloud to put that information technology on the cloud .

The usage tracking allows for modular tracking of usage of various components of the information technology infrastructure. In some embodiments the usage tracking may track the entire information technology infrastructure. In some embodiments the usage tracking may track one or more single networks user systems hypervisors and or the like. In this way the usage tracking may track a single component several components and or the entire information technology infrastructure.

The storage allows for modular storage of the components required for operating the resource manager and the components therein. The provisions allow for the options and or utilization functions of the resource manager .

Referring back to the OMDB application further illustrates a physical infrastructure . The physical infrastructure includes the hardware and other physical components of the information technology infrastructure that may also require monitoring updating repairing and the like. In this way although the OMDB may not be able to push and or pull physical infrastructures between various locations of the information technology infrastructure like the OMDB can with information technology resources. The OMDB may still be able to provide real time management monitoring and feedback relating to the physical infrastructure of the information technology infrastructure.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method including for example a computer implemented process a business process and or any other process apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code or the like or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer executable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable transitory or non transitory computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device.

In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF signals or other mediums.

Computer executable program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer executable program code portions. These computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the code portions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer executable program code portions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the code portions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer executable program code may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational phases to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the code portions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide phases for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented phases or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented phases or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

As the phrase is used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing particular computer executable program code embodied in computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowcharts and or block diagrams. It will be understood that phases of the processes described herein may be performed in orders different than those illustrated in the flowcharts. In other words the processes represented by the blocks of a flowchart may in some embodiments be in performed in an order other that the order illustrated may be combined or divided or may be performed simultaneously. It will also be understood that the blocks of the block diagrams illustrated in some embodiments merely conceptual delineations between systems and one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams may be combined or share hardware and or software with another one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams. Likewise a device system apparatus and or the like may be made up of one or more devices systems apparatuses and or the like. For example where a processor is illustrated or described herein the processor may be made up of a plurality of microprocessors or other processing devices which may or may not be coupled to one another. Likewise where a memory is illustrated or described herein the memory may be made up of a plurality of memory devices which may or may not be coupled to one another.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

