---

title: Hetero-junction tunneling transistor
abstract: A hetero-junction tunneling transistor having a first layer of p++ silicon germanium which forms a source for the transistor at one end. A second layer of n+ silicon material is deposited so that a portion of the second layer overlies the first layer and forms the drain for the transistor. An insulating layer and metallic gate for the transistor is deposited on top of the second layer so that the gate is aligned with the overlying portions of the first and second layers. The gate voltage controls the conduction between the source and the drain and the conduction between the first and second layers occurs by vertical tunneling between the layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08629480&OS=08629480&RS=08629480
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08629480
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 491 061 filed on May 27 2011.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates generally to transistors and more particularly to a hetero junction tunneling FET transistor in which the tunneling effect occurs vertically through the semiconductor layers.

While there are many variations of field effect transistors FET in general the previously known field effect transistors include a layer of doped material deposited on a substrate such as a silicon substrate so that the conductive semiconductor material forms a source at one end and a drain at the other. A metallic gate is positioned in between the source and the drain and is often insulated from the conductive layer by an insulating layer. Modulation of the voltage applied to the gate then varies the current flow between the source and the drain as a function of the gate voltage.

These previously known field effect transistors however all suffer a number of common disadvantages. One disadvantage is that since the source and drain are necessarily spaced apart from each other the conduction of electrons between the source and the drain is likewise necessarily lengthy. As a result transistor noise results as well as relatively slow transistor switching.

A still further disadvantage of the previously known field effect transistors is that an application of relatively large gate voltages was required in order to adequately render the layer between the drain and the source conductive. This in turn results not only in increased power usage and consumption but also heat dissipation of the transistor.

The present invention provides a hetero junction tunneling FET transistor that overcomes all of the above mentioned disadvantages of the previously known field effect transistors.

In brief the hetero junction tunneling transistor of the present invention comprises a first p silicon germanium layer having the transistor source at one end. The thickness of the silicon germanium layer is very small e.g. 5 nanometers but with a relatively high p doping of 10holes per cubic centimeter.

An n silicon layer is then deposited so that a portion of the silicon layer overlies only a portion of the silicon germanium layer. The exposed end of the silicon layer forms the drain for the transistor. This silicon layer is also highly doped e.g. 10electrons per cubic centimeter.

An insulator and metallic layer is then deposited on top of the silicon layer so that the metal layer forms the gate for the transistor. Furthermore the gate as well as the insulator overlie the overlapping portions of the silicon and germanium layer as well as the silicon layer.

With a voltage differential applied between the drain and the source voltage modulation of the gate varies the conduction between the drain and source through vertical electron tunneling between the silicon germanium layer and the silicon layer.

Since the transistor of the present invention utilizes electron tunneling for conduction between the source and drain a substantial reduction in transistor noise is achieved as compared to the previously known field effect transistors. Furthermore the conduction between the source and drain through electron tunneling also occurs much more rapidly thus allowing high speed switching in the gigahertz range. Power consumption and the resultant heat generated by the transistor is also greatly reduced due to the lower gate voltages necessary to control conduction between the source and drain as well as lower voltage differential between the source and drain.

With reference first to a diagrammatic cross sectional view of a preferred embodiment of the hetero junction tunneling FET transistor of the present invention is shown. The transistor includes a p silicon germanium first layer which forms a source for the transistor at one end. Conventional metal pads not shown may be used to connect the source to the appropriate connectors.

The thickness of the silicon germanium layer is relatively thin e.g. 5 nanometers and is highly p doped. For example the silicon germanium layer is preferably doped in the range of about 10holes per cubic centimeter.

A portion of the silicon layer extends outwardly away from the silicon germanium layer and forms a drain for the transistor . Any conventional metal pads not shown may be used to electrically connect the drain to the other circuitry.

The silicon layer is relatively thin e.g. about 3 nanometers and is highly n doped e.g. 10electrons Per cubic centimeter. Consequently the doping of the silicon germanium layer is within an order of magnitude of doping as the silicon layer .

An insulating layer and gate then overlie the overlapping portion of the silicon germanium layer and the silicon layer . The insulating layer may be constructed of any conventional insulating material while the gate is constructed of a conductive material such as metal. The gate furthermore has a defined length preferably less than 10 nanometers all of which overlies the overlapping portion of the silicon germanium layer and silicon layer .

The insulating layer preferably has an equivalent oxide thickness EOT of about 0.5 nanometers. Consequently the actual thickness of the insulating layer will vary as a function of the dielectric constant of the insulator . The higher the dielectric constant the thinner the insulating layer and vice versa.

In operation an electric voltage potential e.g. 0.3 volts is applied between the source and the drain . The voltage on the gate is then used to modulate the surface potential of the silicon layer and thus modulate the conduction between the source and drain .

With reference now to is a simulated contour plot of the electron and hole generation rates upon the application of a voltage to the gate . Upon the application of a relatively low gate voltage e.g. 0.3 volts the gate induces a conduction band in the silicon layer and a valance band in the silicon germanium layer . These two bands and furthermore are separated from each other vertically by a band gap . Consequently under this condition conduction between the source and drain occurs through the tunneling effect of electrons through the band gap as depicted by the arrows . Since the conduction between the layers and occurs vertically via the tunnel effect high speed and power efficient switching of the transistor can be achieved with low noise.

The operation of the tunneling effect vertically between the silicon germanium layer and the silicon layer is clarified by reference to in which the cross section energy levels for the silicon germanium layer and silicon layer are shown. With the transistor in an off condition the energy level for the valance band is illustrated by graph and the energy level for the conduction band is illustrated by graph . As is clear from the energy levels for the valence band and conduction band are not vertically aligned when the transistor is in an off condition.

Conversely graph illustrates the energy level for the valence band when the transistor is in an on or conducting condition while graph illustrates the energy level for the conduction band for the transistor when turned on or conducting. The portions of the bands and overlap which allow vertical tunneling between the electrons and holes . Since both the silicon germanium layer and silicon layer are highly but oppositely doped sufficient conduction between the source and drain occurs through the tunneling effect or band to band tunneling as shown by arrow .

With reference now to a graph of the drain current Iin amperes per micrometers on the Y axis versus the gate voltage is shown for a drain and source differential of 0.1 volts in graph and a voltage differential across the source and drain for 0.3 volts in graph . thus demonstrates that the current between the source and drain varies almost solely as a function of the gate voltage with only a minor effect of varying the voltage between the drain and source.

With reference now to illustrates the gain achieved by the transistor as a function of the gate to source voltage differential. Specifically graph illustrates the transistor gain of the drain current versus drain voltage for a gate to source voltage differential of 0.5 volts. Graph illustrates the transistor gain for a gate to source voltage differential of 0.4. As is clear from at a drain voltage of 0.3 volts the transistor gain at a gate to source voltage differential of 0.5 is approximately four times the gain when the gate to source voltage differential is 0.4.

With reference now to depicts the subthreshold swing in millivolts per decade on the Y axis versus the drain current in amperes per micrometers on the X axis for three different lengths of the gate . Specifically graph corresponds to a gate length of 6 nanometers graph corresponds to a gate length of 8 nanometers while graph corresponds to a gate length of 10 nanometers. thus demonstrates that the subthreshold swing versus drain current remains largely unaffected for different gate lengths .

Similarly depicts the drain current Ion the Y axis as a function of the gate voltage Von the X axis for three different gate lengths . Specifically graph corresponds to a gate length of 10 nanometers graph corresponds to a gate length of 8 nanometers and graph corresponds to a gate length of 6 nanometers. thus demonstrates that the gain of the transistor is largely unaffected by differing lengths of the gate .

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a high speed power efficient and virtually noise free hetero junction FET transistor which utilizes vertical tunneling as a conduction mode between the drain and the source. All of these attributes of the transistor enable it to be used for many applications such as high speed switching applications and low noise applications. Furthermore since variations in the size of the components e.g. the length of the gate have only minimal effect on the overall operation of the transistor the transistor may be scaled as required without significant impact on the operational characteristics of the transistor.

Having described our invention many modifications will become apparent thereto to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

