---

title: Methods and program products for providing heart rate information
abstract: Methods and program products for providing heart rate information are disclosed. In an embodiment, a method for providing heart rate information about a user includes the steps of defining a plurality of heart rate zones as ranges of percentages of a maximum heart rate of the user, determining upper and lower limits for said heart rate zones based on the maximum heart rate of the user, associating a color with each of said heart rate zones, receiving heart rate information from the user, and initiating a graphical display in response to receiving heart rate information from the user, wherein a color of a portion of the graphical display corresponds with the color associated with one of said heart rate zones.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855756&OS=08855756&RS=08855756
owner: Adidas AG
number: 08855756
owner_city: 
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120601
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 468 025 filed May 18 2009. This application is also related to commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 467 944 filed May 18 2009 and to commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 467 948 filed May 18 2009. Each of the above mentioned references is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to fitness monitoring services. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and program products for providing heart rate information.

Exercise is important to maintaining a healthy lifestyle and individual well being. Accordingly many individuals want to participate in an exercise program. The most successful exercise programs are ones tailored to a fitness level of an individual and aimed at assisting the individual to achieve one or more specific fitness or exercise goals.

Sports trainers as well as other exercise and fitness professionals are available to assist individuals in developing exercise programs appropriate for their individual fitness levels and their specific fitness or exercise goals. Hiring such professionals however can be expensive. Furthermore the busy schedules of many individuals make it difficult for these individuals to set aside time to meet with an exercise and fitness professional on a routine basis. Thus many individuals forego using the services of exercise and fitness professionals and they never achieve the benefits that can be obtained from an exercise program tailored for example to one s fitness level.

Technology has resulted in the development of systems capable of transferring performance information obtained from a user during a workout to a remote computer for further analysis. These systems often provide a user interface that allows the user to review their past performance data.

What is needed are improved program products methods and systems for providing fitness monitoring services that will allow athletes to among other thing better use data generated from past performances to gauge their improvement to set goals for the future to share their performance data with others to stay motivated and or to enable them to exercise at intensities appropriate for their current fitness level and goals.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method for providing heart rate information about a user that includes the steps of defining a plurality of heart rate zones as ranges of percentages of a maximum heart rate of the user determining upper and lower limits for said heart rate zones based on the maximum heart rate of the user associating a color with each of said heart rate zones receiving heart rate information from the user and initiating a graphical display in response to receiving heart rate information from the user wherein a color of a portion of the graphical display corresponds with the color associated with one of said heart rate zones.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to a method for providing heart rate information about a user during monitored activities that includes the steps of defining a plurality of heart rate zones wherein each heart rate zone is associated with a different color receiving first heart rate information related to a first time period wherein the first heart rate information comprises the amount of time the user s heart rate fell in each heart rate zone during monitored activities during the first time period and initiating a graphical display based on the first heart rate information wherein the graphical display indicates the relative amount of time that the user s heart rate fell in different heart rate zones during monitored activities during the first time period by displaying graphical elements whose colors are associated with the different heart rate zones and whose areas are proportional to the relative amount of time that the user s heart rate fell in the different heart rate zones during monitored activities during the first time period.

Embodiments of the present invention further relate to a tangible computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for causing at least one processor to define a plurality of heart rate zones wherein each heart rate zone is associated with a different color receive first heart rate information related to a first time period wherein the first heart rate information comprises the amount of time the user s heart rate fell in each heart rate zone during monitored activities during the first time period and initiate a graphical display based on the first heart rate information wherein the graphical display indicates the relative amount of time that the user s heart rate fell in different heart rate zones during monitored activities during the first time period by displaying graphical elements whose colors are associated with the different heart rate zones and whose areas are proportional to the relative amount of time that the user s heart rate fell in the different heart rate zones during monitored activities during the first time period.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. References to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

The program products methods and systems of the present invention may be used to provide fitness monitoring services to athletes . Athletes who utilize embodiments of the present invention may actively participate in a variety of physical activities including but not limited to running walking biking skating swimming skiing performing aerobic exercises weight lifting or participating in various individual or team sports. Accordingly terms such as for example athlete runner exercising individual and user may be referred to herein interchangeably.

Furthermore the term user may also be used herein to refer to a user other than the athlete conducting the physical activities of interest. In other words as described in further detail below other users besides the athlete user such as coaches or friends may be able to interact with the system of the present invention.

As illustrated in an athlete engaged in physical activity may be equipped with a portable fitness monitoring device . The portable fitness monitoring device may be worn carried or otherwise supported by the athlete during the physical activity. The portable fitness monitoring device may be adapted to measure and or process various performance parameters associated with the athlete s physical activity. The term performance parameters may include both physical parameters and physiological parameters associated with the athlete s physical activity. Physical parameters measured may include for example time distance speed pace stride count stride length and stride rate. Physiological parameters measured may include for example heart rate respiration rate blood oxygen level blood flow hydration status calories burned muscle fatigue and body temperature.

In an embodiment performance parameters may also include mental or emotional parameters such as for example stress level or motivation level. Mental and emotional parameters may be measured directly or indirectly either through posing questions to the athlete or by measuring things such as for example trunk angle or foot strike characteristics while running.

The portable fitness monitoring device may be a device such as for example a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a music file player e.g. and MP3 player an intelligent article for wearing e.g. a fitness monitoring garment wrist band or watch a dongle e.g. a small hardware device that protects software that includes a fitness monitoring mode a dedicated portable fitness monitoring device or a non dedicated portable fitness monitoring device such as for example the devices disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 467 944.

The portable fitness monitoring device may communicate with one or more sensors for detecting the performance parameters. The sensors may be in wired or wireless communication with the portable fitness monitoring device . In one embodiment of the present invention as shown in a sensor for detecting heart rate is coupled to the athlete s chest while a sensor for detecting speed is coupled to the athlete s shoe. Other sensors including but not limited to an accelerometer a pedometer a pulsimeter a thermometer or other sensor for detecting a user performance parameter may be used. The portable monitoring device and the one or more sensors may communicate using known protocols including but not limited to ANT and ANT by Dynastream Innovations Bluetooth LE Bluetooth LET or BlueRobin. Other known communication protocols may be used.

The portable fitness monitoring device may also communicate with one or more portable displays . The portable displays may be in wired or wireless communication with the portable fitness monitoring device . The portable displays may be adapted to convey information to the athlete in a variety of ways such as for example visually audibly or tactilely e.g. via a vibrating element either alone or in combination. In an embodiment of the present invention as shown in a separate audible display e.g. headphones and a separate visual display e.g. a wrist band are provided. In other embodiments visual audible and or tactile displays may be included as physically separate elements or one or more of these elements may be integrated into a single physical display device . Tactile displays may include means for vibrating the display such as for example a piezoelectric actuator for providing tactile sensory output to the athlete . In some embodiments the portable display may be integral with the portable fitness monitoring device .

According to an embodiment of the present invention information may be communicated between an athlete equipped with a portable fitness monitoring device and one or more external elements. These external elements may include for example a personal computer a network and or a server . In one embodiment personal computer and server may be a single component.

In one embodiment as shown in the athlete equipped with a portable fitness monitoring device may communicate with a personal computer using wired or wireless communications. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art wired communication between the portable fitness monitoring device and the personal computer may be achieved for example by placing the portable fitness monitoring device in a docking unit that is attached to the personal computer using a communications wire plugged into a communications port of the personal computer .

In another embodiment wired communication between the portable fitness monitoring device and the personal computer may be achieved for example by connecting a cable between the portable fitness monitoring device and the computer . A computer input output of the portable fitness monitoring device and a communications port of the computer may include USB ports. The cable connecting the portable fitness monitoring device and the computer may be a USB cable with suitable USB plugs including but not limited to USB A or USB B regular mini or micro plugs.

Wireless communication between the portable fitness monitoring device and the personal computer may be achieved for example by way of a wireless wide area network WWAN such as for example the Internet a wireless local area network WLAN or a wireless personal area network WPAN collectively wireless area networks or WANs . As is well known to those skilled in the art there are a number of known standard and proprietary protocols that are suitable for implementing WANs e.g. TCP IP IEEE 802.16 and Bluetooth . Accordingly the present invention is not limited to using any particular protocol to communicate between the portable fitness monitoring device and the various external elements of the fitness monitoring service of the present invention.

In one embodiment the portable fitness monitoring device may communicate with a WWAN communications system such as that employed by mobile telephones. For example a WWAN communication system may include a plurality of geographically distributed communication towers and base station systems. Communication towers may include one or more antennae supporting long range two way radio frequency communication wireless devices such as the portable fitness monitoring device . The radio frequency communication between antennae and the portable fitness monitoring device may utilize radio frequency signals conforming to any known or future developed wireless protocol for example CDMA GSM EDGE 3G IEEE 802.x e.g. IEEE 802.16 WiMAX etc. The information transmitted over the air by the base station systems and the cellular communication towers to the portable fitness monitoring device may be further transmitted to or received from one or more additional circuit switched or packet switched communication networks including for example the Internet.

As shown in communication may also occur between the personal computer and a server via a network . In an embodiment the network is the Internet. The Internet is a worldwide collection of servers routers switches and transmission lines that employ the Internet Protocol TCP IP to communicate data. As indicated above the Internet may also be employed for communication between the portable fitness monitoring device and the personal computer . In one embodiment of the present invention information may be directly communicated between the portable fitness monitoring device and the server via the network thus bypassing the personal computer .

According to embodiments of the fitness monitoring service of the present invention a wide variety of information may be communicated between any of the athlete the personal fitness monitoring device the personal computer the network and the server . Such information may include for example performance parameters training advice training plans calendar data route information music videos text images voice communications settings software and firmware.

Communication among the various elements of the present invention may occur before a physical activity is commenced after a physical activity has been completed and or in real time during the physical activity. In addition the interaction between for example the personal fitness monitoring device and the personal computer and the interaction between the personal computer and the server may occur at different times.

Information communicated to and stored by the server may be accessible to the athlete at a later time via the network . For example the athlete could access post activity performance information communicated to the server from their personal fitness monitoring device at a later time from their personal computer. In another embodiment of the present invention a third party e.g. a trainer coach friend or family member stationed at a personal computer may be able to access real time or historical performance information regarding the athlete s performance via the server over the network .

As is known by those of skill in the art a GUI may use a combination of technologies and devices to provide a platform the user can interact with via a computer . A GUI may offer for example graphical elements visual indicators and text to represent information and actions available to the user . Graphical elements may include for example windows menus radio buttons check boxes and icons. The user may use a physical input device such as a mouse to control the position of a cursor on their computer screen.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative or additional modules and sub modules may be implemented within the server system in order to provide or extend the described or additional functionalities. For example the software configuration of server may include an operating system which may be one of the commercially available operating systems such as for example Windows UNIX LINUX Mac OSX or AIX. The operating system may also have an associated application programming interface through which middleware and application programs may access the services of the operating system. In addition a hypertext transport protocol HTTP server may run on top of the operating system. As is well known in the art HTTP server may communicate data over the Internet using HTTP.

According to one embodiment of the present invention illustrates a GUI window presented by start module to a user of a remote personal computer system.

As illustrated by and the various modules of the fitness monitoring service of the present invention may support GUIs through which a user can interact with the fitness monitoring service. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art in one embodiment the GUIs may appear as webpages provided by a server via a website that may be accessible to the user over the Internet using a web browser on their computer . In other embodiments the GUIs may be generated by a processor based only on information stored on the personal computer a CD ROM a mobile phone or other computer readable media accessible locally to the user . In embodiments of the present invention users can among other things use data generated from past performances to gauge their improvement set goals for the future share their performance data with others and or assist themselves in exercising at intensities appropriate for their current fitness level and goals.

With reference to a menu bar may be present near one of the edges of a GUI window of the present invention. The menu bar may include several icons or indicia corresponding to the start plan schedule track support library and forum modules. In one embodiment the menu bar may be present on every GUI page presented to the user by the server. After logging in to the server the user may be able to navigate to areas of the website supported by different modules by selecting their corresponding icons with a cursor . Additional icons corresponding to sub modules or program wizards associated with a particular module may pop up or otherwise be displayed to the user if the user selects or hovers the cursor over a module icon.

In order to access the features of embodiments of the present invention a user stationed at a remote personal computer may log into the server via the interne . As is well known to those skilled in the art the login process which may be controlled by a log in wizard run by start module typically includes the entry by the remote user of a login ID and password or other authentication information to the server which then authenticates the identity of the user by reference to a user database or the like. Embodiments of the fitness monitoring services of the present invention may be offered to a plurality of athletes or other users forming a user community may be restricted to users that have been issued login IDs and passwords for accessing the server and or may further be offered in exchange for a subscription fee.

Following the preliminary authentication process via the log in wizard as illustrated in a social networking wizard run by the start module may invite the user to link their fitness monitoring account to a social networking site such as for example Facebook MySpace Twitter Friendster LinkedIn or the like. As explained in further detail below linking to a social networking site may provide the user with added benefits and features. If the user declines the initial opportunity to link to a social networking site they may be able to create such a link at a later time. Upon completion of the social networking wizard start module may present a home page as illustrated in .

In an embodiment the user stationed at a remote personal computer may alternatively choose to interact with the server via a software widget. As is known by those of skill in the art a software widget is a software application including portable code intended for one or more different software platforms. The term software widget implies that either the application user interface or both may be relatively simple and easy to use as exemplified by a desk accessory or applet.

In one embodiment the software widget may be a desktop widget that is a specialized GUI widget intended to run on a computer desktop. In another embodiment the software widget may be a mobile widget that can operate on mobile devices e.g. smart phones . The widget may present a simplified version of the user interfaces explained in further detail herein and may provide alternative means for the user to log in to the server . The widget may allow the user to review summary information about their past performance and may allow the user to view for example a calendar of upcoming workouts as described in further detail below.

From the home page the user may be able to navigate to different modules sub modules or wizards by selecting their corresponding icons from the menu bar with the cursor . In one embodiment by hovering the cursor over the start module icon the user may be able to select an introductory sub module an equipment sub module or a device download sub module .

For example the introductory page may contain information about the planning scheduling and tracking capabilities of the fitness monitoring system. In one embodiment of the present invention some aspects of the planning scheduling and tracking functions may be tied to a color coded heart rate zone system. In other embodiments some aspects of the planning scheduling and tracking functions may be tied to color coded zone systems based on zones of other parameters including but not limited to speed pace stride rate calories respiration rate blood oxygen level blood flow hydration status or body temperature. A graphical representation and a brief description of such a color coded system may be provided on the introductory page and in personal settings as illustrated in .

In an embodiment of the present invention the color of certain graphical information provided by the server via the various GUIs presented may be dictated by detected or targeted heart rate information. Various modules of the fitness monitoring service of the present invention may be programmed with algorithms for establishing one or more heart rate ranges or zones. Each zone may be associated with a particular color. Zones may be defined for example as ranges of percentages of an athlete s maximum heart rate. Accordingly each zone may be associated with a particular level of effort.

In an embodiment an additional zone for example a pink zone may also be provided that overlaps the ranges of the blue green and yellow zones. The pink zone may primarily be used for setting intensity goals for beginners. In a further embodiment the colors may change in character from relatively light or dim colors to relatively dark or intense colors as values associated with the zone colors increase from the lower to upper limits of the zone.

The zones may be assigned based on predetermined fitness goals. For example in the embodiment of the energy zone blue may be associated with a heart rate range that allows an athlete to build their aerobic base. The endurance zone green may be associated with a heart rate range that allows an athlete to build cardiovascular strength and burn calories. The strength zone yellow may be associated with a heart rate range that allows an athlete to improve their aerobic threshold endurance and metabolism. The power zone red may be associated with a heart rate range that allows an athlete to improve their anerobic threshold endurance and metabolism.

For planning purposes that zones can be presented to the user as an indication of the difficulty of a particular workout. For monitoring and tracking purposes the zones may be established for a particular user based on a maximum heart rate. An athlete s maximum heart rate may not be an indication of their fitness level it usually may not change significantly with training and it may be set by the athlete s genetics. An athlete s maximum heart rate can be provided to the fitness monitoring service of the present invention in a number of ways.

Returning to the functionality of the start module is an exemplary GUI window that may be displayed by the equipment sub module . The equipment page may contain an overview of the different pieces of equipment that are compatible with the fitness monitoring system of the present invention. Such pieces of equipment may include for example mobile fitness phones dedicated portable fitness monitoring devices non dedicated portable fitness monitoring devices sports mode enabled MP3 players sports mode enabled dongles sports watches display devices exercise machines in fitness centers and sensors e.g. pedometers or heart rate sensors . A broad overview of each piece of equipment and or more detailed specifications may be provided. A table or interactive equipment wizard may further be provided to help the athlete select the equipment that best suits the athlete s needs and fitness goals.

The equipment wizard may pose a series of questions to the athlete or the athlete s coach such as for example What are your personal fitness goals Do you already have a dedicated portable fitness monitoring device Do you want to receive performance feedback and or coaching during your activity Do you want to log performance data during your activity Would you like to be able to listen to music during your activity Would you like to monitor your heart rate Would you like to monitor your speed Would you like to use GPS enabled features and Would you like to be able to transmit and receive data to and from your device in real time . Other interactive questions for determining and or fulfilling the needs of the user may be included.

The equipment page provided by the equipment sub module may further prompt or allow user s to purchase the equipment through the equipment page may provide links to other websites where the user could purchase the equipment and or may provide information about physical retail outlets where the user could purchase the equipment.

As indicated above in embodiments of the present invention the menu bar may be present on every GUI page presented to the user by the server . Accordingly at any time the user may be able to navigate to portions of the website supported by different modules sub modules or wizards by selecting their corresponding icons from the menu bar with the cursor . In one embodiment the user may be able to select an icon corresponding to the plan module from the menu bar .

In one embodiment of the present invention from the main plan page the plan module may enable the user to select training plan icons with the cursor associated with various training plan sub modules such as for example a Learn to Run sub module a Be Fit sub module a Run a Race sub module a De Stress sub module a Lose Weight sub module and a Finish Faster sub module .

The Be Fit sub module may provide a plan where the athlete runs at slightly faster paces in order to improve their overall physical fitness. An athlete utilizing the Be Fit program may be encouraged to for example increase their cardiovascular capacity and conduct interval training i.e. sequentially running at different intensities for different periods of time or for different distances .

One or more of the plan module sub modules may also be designed for athletes who are interested in physical activities besides or in addition to running. For example the Be Fit sub module may also provide a plan where the athlete works out in a gym using various machines and pieces of stationary exercise equipment to improve their overall physical fitness. An athlete utilizing the Be Fit program may be encouraged to for example increase their cardiovascular capacity and conduct interval training on various machines and pieces of stationary exercise equipment.

The Run a Race sub module may provide a plan for athletes interested in preparing for a race. In one embodiment of the invention the Run a Race sub module may provide a plurality of different plans depending on the distance of the race the athlete is planning to participate in. Plans may be provided for example for 5K 10K marathon and full marathon races. An athlete utilizing one of the Run a Race programs may be encouraged to for example conduct interval or other speed work training take long runs and recovery runs and generally build their endurance and aerobic capacity so that they are able to successfully complete their race.

The De Stress sub module may provide a plan where the user s primary goal may be to reduce their overall stress achieve relaxation and increase energy. A user participating in the De Stress program may for example be guided through a series of workouts of varying intensities that are regularly scheduled but of relatively short duration so that the user is able to de stress on a regular basis yet will still be able to find time in their schedule to complete their workouts.

The Lose Weight sub module may provide a plan for users interested in burning calories reducing body fat increasing energy and improving overall health through aerobic workouts. Again the particular physical activities performed by the user are not limited. A user participating in the Lose Weight program may for example be guided through a consistent workout schedule that starts at a relatively easy level to build the user s athletic base and establish a regular routine and that may gradually progress to more difficult workouts.

Like the Run a Race sub module the Finish Faster sub module may provide a plan for athletes interested in preparing for a race. However the finish faster module may be more appropriate for athletes who have significant race experience and are looking to improve upon their past race times. An athlete participating in the Finish Faster program may be encouraged to conduct interval training and speed work and push themselves to the limit by conducting longer and more intense workouts.

In another embodiment of the present invention a Recover sub module may provide a plan for users who need to recover from a difficult race e.g. a marathon from an injury or from any other physically mentally or emotionally taxing event. An athlete participating in the Recover program may be given different goals depending on the specific situation. Athletes recovering from a difficult race may only need a short series of relatively easy recovery runs to get their legs back for resumed training. Athletes recovering from an injury may need a much longer recovery period depending on the severity of the injury. Athletes recovering from mentally or emotionally taxing events may be provided with a variety of goals some of which may be similar to those provided in a De Stress plan.

When considering the selection of a particular training plan the associated plan sub module may allow the user to select from a plurality of difficulty levels for their prospective program using the level selector . The level selector may be an icon a drop down menu a slider or any other GUI input device known in the art. In one embodiment the user may be able to choose from one of seven difficulty levels where level 1 is the easiest and level 7 is the most difficult level.

In another embodiment the user s difficulty level options may be limited based on the particular training plan sub module selected. For example as illustrated in the Learn to Run sub module may only be capable of presenting levels through . Because a user who is just learning to run or begin an exercising is not likely to desire a program of high difficulty such a limitation may be appropriate. On the other hand as illustrated in the Finish Faster sub module may only be capable of presenting levels and . Because a user who has participated in several competitive races before has likely achieved a high level of physical fitness such a limitation may also be appropriate.

In one embodiment the user s difficulty level options may be limited based on the particular training plan sub module selected because of certain filters in place. In an embodiment the user may be able to deactivate or modify these filters in order to be able to choose from a wider variety of levels for a given plan. Alternatively such filters may not be present and a user may be free to chose any level for any plan.

Once a difficulty level for a prospective plan has been selected via level selector the particular training plan sub module provides the plan preview for the plan. The plan preview may include a description of what to expect from the plan a description of the benefits of the plan and or a sample schedule. The plan description may make reference to the particular color coded heart rate zones that a user may be prompted to exercise at as part of that plan. As illustrated in the sample schedule may include an indication of the number of total workouts in the plan the number of workouts per week and the total number of weeks.

The training plan sub module may also provide a sample workout list for a given plan. The user may access the sample workout list by selecting an appropriate icon with their cursor . In one embodiment the icon may be a bar graph representing the relative durations and intensities of the individual workouts of the plan. The durations of the individual workouts may be proportional to the length of the bars displayed while the intensities of the individual workouts may be indicated by a color corresponding to the heart rate zone at which the user will be instructed to exercise. shows an exemplary GUI pop up window providing the sample workout list provided by the Run a Race sub module for a user who has selected a level 4 10K race program.

In one embodiment for each workout the list provides the workout number in the series e.g. 40 of 51 a zone bar indicator the workout duration calories or distance targeted e.g. 28 minutes 400 calories or 5 kilometers and a coaching tip. The zone bar indicator may communicate several pieces of information. It may indicate the number of intervals to be performed. It may also indicate the relative intensities of each interval to be performed based on a target heart rate zone as indicated by a color. For example as illustrated in workout number consists of one time interval of blue training corresponding to for example an energy zone ranging from 65 to 75 of an athlete s maximum heart rate . Workout consists of three time intervals of training a long interval of green training corresponding to for example an endurance zone ranging from 75 to 85 of an athlete s maximum heart rate preceded and followed by short intervals of blue training. Workout consists of four time intervals of training including two blue intervals a green interval and a yellow interval corresponding to for example a strength zone ranging from 85 to 90 of an athlete s maximum heart rate . In this way the athlete can gauge the relative level of difficulty and suitability of a prospective training plan by examining the zone bar indicators associated with the individual workouts making up a prospective plan.

The coaching notes included in the workout list may provide motivation point out a particular area of focus or otherwise provide guidance to the athlete related to the ultimate goal of their particular plan.

After determining which plan best suits their needs the athlete may select an icon that enables plan module to launch a plan personalization wizard . The questions presented by the plan personalization wizard may vary depending on the type of plan selected. shows an exemplary personalization wizard GUI window provided by the Run a Race sub module for a user who has selected a level 4 10K race program.

The plan personalization wizard may prompt the user to select a start date for their training plan so that the plan may be built forward from that date. For users who select a race oriented plan such as those provided by the Run a Race sub module or the Finish Faster sub module personalization wizard may prompt the user to select the day of their race so that the plan may be built backward from the race date.

The plan personalization wizard may also prompt the user to select which days of the week they want to conduct their workouts on. For example as illustrated in a user may choose to workout four days per week on Sundays Tuesdays Thursdays and Saturdays. In other embodiments users may be able to plan workouts to occur on different days during different weeks.

While personalizing their plan the user may be able to vary the number of workouts per week by adding removing a workout day from their selection. In an embodiment the system may then dynamically alter the total number of workout and total weeks of the workout plan and display this information via the plan personalization wizard . Depending on the overall goals of the plan selected by the user the system may or may not increase or decrease the total number of workout and or the total number of weeks of the plan in response to the user adding or removing a workout day from their schedule. For example if a user personalizes a plan to include workouts on only two days per week the system may extend the plan over a longer period of time and or add more total workouts. In contrast if the user personalizes a plan to include workouts on 6 days a week the system may reduce the number of weeks of the plan and or decrease the total number of workouts.

The plan personalization wizard may further prompt the user to give their plan a name. In one embodiment the wizard may provide a default name. In this way a user who wishes to schedule multiple training plans may be able to distinguish one plan from another by the plans names.

In one embodiment after the user finalizes their plan via the personalization wizard schedule module may populate a GUI calendar with the user s plan. In addition at any other time when the user is logged in to the server the user may be able to navigate to the GUI calendar by selecting the icon corresponding to the schedule module from the menu bar .

In one embodiment the user may be able to access a workout list containing a listing of all workouts of their currently selected plan by selecting an appropriate icon with their cursor . This workout list may be identical to one of the sample workout lists provided by plan module . The workout list is another way of presenting the workout information populated on to calendar .

From the calendar page the schedule module may enable the user to select icons with the cursor associated with various schedule wizards such as for example a plan editor wizard and a custom workout wizard .

In an embodiment the custom workout created by the user may include one or more intervals of varying intensities according to the color coded zone based system described above. The custom workout wizard may enable the user to build an individual workout for example by assembling a series of zone intervals. The user may indicate the number of intervals to be performed and the relative intensities of each interval to be performed based on a target heart rate zone or other parameter based zone as indicated by a color. In one embodiment the user may assemble a custom workout with GUI elements that may resemble the graphical representation of the color coded zone system as illustrated in . In an embodiment the user may originally be presented with a blank screen upon which they can drag drop stretch or otherwise manipulate one or more colored boxes that represent intervals to be performed at specific intensities as indicated by the color of the box. Stretching or shrinking the boxes may increase or decrease the duration of the interval associated with that box. In another embodiment the user could numerically specify their desired number of intervals their associated durations and or their associated intensities and a GUI representation consisting of several colored boxes may automatically be produced. In an embodiment the user could specify a primary exercise interval and could click check boxes indicating that a warm up and or cool down interval should also be inserted before or after their primary exercise interval if desired. After a workout is finalized and saved the workout built by the user may be represented by a zone bar indicator as described above.

In addition to creating customized individual workouts in an embodiment the user may be able to create an entirely customized training plan from scratch. Via the plan module the user may be able to create an original plan by specifying for example the number of weeks the number of workouts per week and the characteristics of the individual workouts as described with respect to the custom workout wizard above.

Once the athlete has selected a training plan that has been populated onto the calendar the athlete may begin to engage in physical activities in accordance with the training plan. As illustrated in the athlete may be equipped with a portable fitness monitoring device . The portable fitness monitoring device may be worn carried or otherwise supported by the athlete during the physical activity. The portable fitness monitoring device may also attach to a piece of exercise equipment such as a road bike traveling on a bike path or a stationary bike in the gym. The portable fitness monitoring device may be capable of measuring and or processing various performance parameters associated with the athlete s physical activity. The portable fitness monitoring device may communicate with one or more sensors such as a heart rate sensor for detecting the performance parameters. As discussed above with reference to communication of performance parameters such as heart rate or speed may occur between two or more of the portable fitness monitoring device the personal computer and the server via a network such as the Internet .

In an embodiment of the present invention performance parameters for a plurality of athletes may be stored on the server and associated with particular user accounts by reference to a user database or the like. The track module allows the users to review and analyze their past performance data.

After completing a workout and uploading performance data to the server the user may log in to the server to review and analyze their past performance data. In one embodiment by hovering the cursor over the track module icon the user may be able to select a workout journal sub module or a history sub module . The user may also be provided with a link to view data from their latest workout via the history sub module as described in further detail below.

In an embodiment the workout journal sub module may provide a listing of all workouts completed by the user using the portable fitness monitoring system. By default the workouts may be listed in order by date. The user may also be able to sort the displayed workout data by category. For example if the user wanted to sort all of their workouts by average heart rate the user might click on the heart rate column header with the cursor causing the workout journal sub module to sort the workout data accordingly. A user may only want to view workouts from a specific date range. Accordingly in one embodiment the user may be able to select a specific week month or year for which to view workout data. By selecting a particular listed workout with the cursor the user may be able to view more detailed data from that workout via the history sub module as described in further detail below with respect to .

The subjective user rating may be assigned by the user immediately after the workout is completed or at a later time. In one embodiment the user may rate a workout on a one to five star scale with a one star workout being a poor workout and a five star workout being an excellent workout. In one embodiment the user rating may be entirely subjective. Alternatively the user rating may be assigned by track module or one of its sub modules based on various recorded performance parameters from the workout historical user performance and or user settings and options.

The user notes may also be assigned by the user immediately after the workout is complete or at a later time. User notes may include for example explanations of a user rating assigned to the workout or other subjective or objective observations about the workout the user s condition the environment the workout was conducted in or the route traversed.

In addition to or in place of being able to review and analyze past performance data via the workout journal sub module the user may be able to select an icon capable of initiating the history sub module . The history sub module may be capable of displaying a variety of GUI windows to the user such as for example those shown in .

In one embodiment of the present invention there may be overlap between the information displayed by the workout journal sub module and the history sub module . The user may prefer that information be displayed via one module for certain purposes and the other module for other purposes.

The information displayed on the history pages may be for a single workout or for a plurality of workouts falling within a particular date range. Information may be displayed on a yearly monthly weekly or daily basis. The data range selected by the user may affect the information displayed by the dashboard icons the information displayed on the primary display as well as the content of the sidebar .

With reference to for example the user may select and the history sub module may provide a history page displaying past performance information on a weekly basis from Jun. 29 2008 through Sep. 20 2008. The user may have selected this date range by locating a workout in the workout journal display via workout journal sub module selecting that workout and then selecting a weekly display via the history sub module. Alternatively the user may have navigated directly to the history page via the history sub module . A user viewing a weekly history page may be able to move forward or backward in time to alter their display by selecting and dragging a scrollbar with their cursor . The scrollbar may be included for example within the primary display .

The dashboard shown in includes display icons for time calories distance heart rate pace and stride rate. The numerical information provided with the dashboard icons corresponds to data associated with workouts from the date range selected. For example as illustrated in for the selected period of Jun. 29 2008 through Sep. 20 2008 the user s total workout time was 52 hours 52 minutes and 16 seconds. This value may also be provided in cumulative and or average form over the selected time period.

While the information provided by the dashboard icons may remain the same for a given date range the information displayed by the primary display may change depending on which dashboard icon the user has selected. For example in because the user has selected the time icon in the dashboard the history sub module displays time information in the primary display . In because the user has selected the heart rate icon in the dashboard the history sub module displays heart rate information in the primary display . Note that in both the numerical information displayed by the dashboard icons has not changed because the date range remains the same.

While the figures show the information displayed by the primary display in the form of bar graphs other suitable graphical displays such as for example line graphs pie graphs racecourse representations animations or videos may be provided in addition to or in place of the bar graphs. Moreover although only time and heart rate graphs have been illustrated by the figures any performance parameters listed in the dashboard may be graphically displayed in the primary display .

As illustrated in when a weekly display is selected cumulative and or average data for a plurality of weeks is displayed in the primary display . For example for the selected period of Jun. 29 2008 through Sep. 20 2008 separate bars may be displayed for the weeks of June 29through July 5 July 6through July 12 July 13through July 29 etc.

As shown in when weekly heart rate information is displayed in the primary display in bar graph form the heart rate information may be conveyed based on the color coded heart rate zone system described above with respect to . Likewise when weekly pace stride rate or other parameter information is displayed in the primary display in bar graph form the pace stride rate or other parameter information may be conveyed based on a color coded zone system corresponding to these other parameters.

In one embodiment as illustrated by a color coded bar may be provided for each week. The color coded bar may include for example blue green yellow and red regions associated with various heart rate zone ranges as described above. The y axis of the graph displayed in the primary display may be time based and the total height of each weekly color coded bar may correspond to the cumulative workout time for a weekly period. The relative heights of the individual color coded regions within a given bar may be proportional to the amount of time the athlete spent in that heart rate zone corresponding to each color for the weekly period.

For example in the embodiment of during the week of August 3through. August 9 the athlete worked out for a time period of approximately eight hours and spent time working out in each of the four heart rate zones but primarily worked out in the green heart rate zone.

An athlete who wants to obtain more specific information about a period of time displayed within the primary display may hover their cursor over the appropriate graphic to display a GUI pop up window containing such information. For example for the weekly time display shown in the athlete has hovered their cursor over the bar representing the week of July 13through July 19. The displayed pop up window may indicate the time calories distance heart rate pace an or stride rate information for only the specific week selected by the athlete . The particular information displayed in the pop up window may be set by the system or customized by the user . Various information may be added or removed by the user as desired. Note that this information is taken from a smaller period of time than the information concurrently displayed in the dashboard .

In one embodiment an athlete who wishes to obtain more specific information about a period of time displayed within the primary display may alternatively select the bar or other indicium representing the appropriate time period with their cursor e.g. by clicking on the bar or other indicium . For example if the user viewing the weekly GUI window of wanted to obtain more specific information about the week of August 3through August 9 the user could select the bar representing that week which may result in the history sub module displaying the daily GUI window shown in . The resulting window may show data for only the previously selected range i.e. the week of August 3through August 9 or it may show a slightly broader date range as showing which provides daily information from July 27through August 16.

The history display shown in is similar to that shown in except that specific workout dates as opposed to weeks are displayed in the primary display . Accordingly the cumulative and or average information displayed in the dashboard is also from a narrower date range.

An athlete who wishes to obtain even more specific information about a period of time displayed within the primary display may select the bar or other indicium representing the appropriate time period with their cursor e.g. by clicking on the bar or other indicium . For example if the user viewing the daily GU window of wanted to obtain more specific information about workouts conducted on Aug. 9 2008 the user could select the bar representing that day which may result in the history sub module displaying the daily GUI window shown in .

The history display shown in is similar to that shown in in that the dashboard primary display and sidebar are still present. However differs from in that information provided in both the dashboard and the primary display is only associated with a single workout day. Additional functionality may also provided by the sidebar .

In one embodiment of the present invention as shown in the history sub module may provide a feedback section in the sidebar . The feedback section may provide feedback from coaches friends or other individuals authorized to provide feedback to the athlete . All users of the system of the present invention having similar accounts through server may be authorized to provide feedback to the athlete . Alternatively only users of the system that are specifically authorized by the athlete may provide feedback to the athlete . In an embodiment users who are linked to the athlete via a social networking site may also provide feedback to the athlete . Feedback may be provided through a GUI provided by sever via email via text message via voice mail or by any other suitable means known in the art. Feedback may be listed sequentially in the order that the feedback was posted much like comments associated with a blog or other web article as is known by those of skill in the art.

The history sub module may also provide a notes section in the sidebar . The notes section may provide a section for a user rating and user notes . These ratings and notes may be similar to those described above with reference to .

The history sub module may provide a route tools section in the sidebar that may be managed by a route tools sub module . In one embodiment the route tools sub module may allow the user to associate specific routes with a workout when the workout involved the traversal of a particular geographic pathway. In one embodiment the route tools sub module may employ a web based mapping service application such as for example the Google Maps application provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. The mapping service application may utilize an application programming interface that allows the mapping service application such as Google Maps to be embedded into the GUI windows of the present invention.

As illustrated in the route tools sub module may enable the user to recreate the path they traversed during the workout by clicking and or dragging and dropping landmarks and paths over a street map using the cursor . The approximate area of the route may be found by for example entering a street address a well known landmark or a zip code into the mapping service application interface. Alternatively in an embodiment the athlete could conduct their workout using a GPS enabled portable fitness monitoring device capable of recording their geographic way points along the route traversed. Either during traversal of the route or after the route has been completed the GPS data could then be uploaded to the server and associated with other performance monitoring information collected during traversal of the route. Thus the route tools sub module could automatically reconstruct the path traversed by the athlete .

In another embodiment the route tools sub module may allow the athlete to create store share and find route plans of interest. The route plan which may or may not be associated with a particular workout may be created or selected that specifies a particular route for the athlete to travel. In an embodiment the route plan may be downloaded to the portable fitness monitoring device . Athletes may use route plans they themselves have created and stored on the sever . In one embodiment other users may post and share route plans with others. In one embodiment this functionality may be enabled by the forum module . Thus a plurality of users may be able to create store share find edit rate and comment on route plans of interest.

In an embodiment the portable fitness monitoring device may be able to guide the athlete along a route based on the route plan and for example the athlete s current position based on GPS readings.

In one embodiment the user may save and name a route or route plan using the route tools sub module . In the embodiment of as shown in the sidebar the user has named and saved a plurality of routes or route plans to the server . In the event that a particular route or route plan has not been automatically assigned to a given workout record the user may wish to select a route or route plan with the cursor to associate with their workout.

Saved routes or route plans may be displayed in primary display if the user selects an appropriate icon. Route details such as the route name distance and location may be provided in a GUI pop up window. The user may also be able to assign a subjective rating and include notes about the route. These features are analogous to the user rating and user notes features described above with respect to .

In an alternate embodiment of the present invention the various route functionalities described herein may be provided through a separate route module of the application software of server at the same functional level as the other primary modules illustrated in such as the start module the plan module the schedule module the track module the support module the library module and the forum module . Accordingly a route module icon may be provided on the menu bar .

In another embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in the history sub module may further provide a playlist section in the sidebar . If the user conducted a workout while listening to music on a music enabled portable fitness monitoring device or with a portable fitness monitoring device coupled to a music device the playlist section may provide a listing of the musical audio tracks that the user listened to during their workout.

In an embodiment a particular play list may be associated with a particular route plan or workout so that the play list may be downloaded to the portable fitness monitoring device simultaneously with the route plan and or workout. Accordingly the user may be able to easily perform the same workout and or traverse the same route while listening to the same play list. The athlete could also fine tune their play list until the athlete felt that the play list provided appropriate entertainment motivation or other benefits during the physical activity.

As illustrated in for example the history sub module may be capable of displaying a variety of performance parameter information about a particular workout in the dashboard and primary display areas of a GUI window. As was the case with the weekly and daily summary displays of performance information shown in while the information provided by the dashboard icons may remain the same for a given workout the information displayed by the primary display may change depending on which dashboard icon the user has selected. For example in because the user has selected the heart rate icon in the dashboard the history sub module displays heart rate information in the primary display .

In an embodiment the heart rate information provided with the heart rate icon in the dashboard is an average heart rate in beats per minute over the entire workout. In another embodiment the heart rate information provided with the heart rate icon in the dashboard is a percentage indicating how often the athlete was exercising at the appropriate heart rate as indicated by their workout plan for the given workout i.e. their percentage in zone . The percentage in zone may be based on time or distance. For example an athlete s plan may call for a 30 minute jog in the blue zone followed by a 30 minute run in the green zone. The athlete may cover 4 miles during the blue zone jog while staying in the proper zone 80 of the time and 8 miles during the green zone run while staying in the proper zone 40 of the time. Accordingly the athlete s percentage in zone for the entire run based on time would be 60 while the athlete s percentage in zone for the entire run based on distance would be approximately 53 . Percentage in zone based on one or both of time and distance may be displayed at a given time.

In one embodiment a success rate may be calculated and provided to the user . In this manner the user may receive performance feedback about a particular workout or series of workouts. The success rate may be displayed in the dashboard and may be provided in cumulative and or average form. In an embodiment the success rate may be equal to the percentage in zone. In another embodiment the success rate may be proportionate to the percentage in zone. Other factors may be used to calculate the success rate including but not limited to whether a personal best for a particular parameter e.g. time pace distance etc. was achieved during a workout whether the athlete left a zone too early whether the athlete s heart rate appeared to recover quickly after completing a difficult zone interval whether the athlete s performance was consistent throughout the workout and or how the athlete performed during specific key interval training sessions.

After the zones have been initially defined the portable fitness monitoring system may be adapted to selectively adjust the limits of the zones in response to the athlete s performance and or feedback received from the athlete if such adjustments are warranted as illustrated in . In this manner the portable fitness monitoring system may provide a training feedback loop. As described above the zones may be defined based on user input. User performance parameter data is detected during a physical activity via the sensors as described above. The performance parameter data is transmitted to the personal computer and or the server for processing. A determination is made as to whether the zones need to be adjusted. If adjustments are warranted this data may be communicated back to a portable fitness monitoring device .

The determination as to whether or not the zones need to be adjusted may be based on for example the factors described above with respect to success rate calculations. In one embodiment if the athlete performs outside the specified heart rate zone for all or a portion of the interval the heart rate zone may be adjusted. For example if the athlete is consistently above the specified zone the zone range may be increased. If the athlete is consistently below the specified zone the zone range may be decreased.

Determinations may further be influenced by feedback provided by the athlete . For example the athlete may provide responses to questions posed by the portable fitness monitoring system. For example upon uploading recently recorded performance parameter data or upon logging in to the personal computer and or server a GUI pop up window may appear asking the user for example if they thought the workout routine was too difficult or too easy. If the user responds that a workout routine was too difficult the zone range may be incrementally decreased. If the user responds that a workout routine was too easy the zone range may be incrementally increased. The athlete s answers to these questions may also influence the success rate calculations described above.

Returning to in one embodiment the performance information to be displayed in the primary display based on the selected dashboard icon may be displayed on a line graph whose x axis is either time or distance based and whose y axis is correlated to the value of the measured performance parameter. For example as shown in a line graph charts heart rate information as a function of time during the workout.

Average lines may also be plotted parallel to the x axis across the graphs. For example in an average heart rate line representing the athlete s average heart rate of 155 beats per minute during the workout is plotted across the graph.

In an embodiment certain performance parameters may be simultaneously plotted or overlaid on top of other performance parameters. For example in the athlete s pace has been plotted on top of the athlete s heart rate as a function of time.

The user interested in viewing instantaneous performance statistics throughout the workout may be able to select and drag a scrollbar with their cursor along the x axis. The scrollbar of this embodiment may function similarly to the scrollbar described with reference to . As the user drags the scrollbar across the x axis an icon may travel along the line graph plotted for the performance parameter of interest. In addition a pop up window displaying additional instantaneous performance data may appear and move across the screen along with the moving icon. is an illustration of an icon and pop up window containing instantaneous performance parameter information being moved across a GUI screen by means of a scrollbar .

In another embodiment the user may be able to display summary performance information for a subset of the workout in the dashboard . In one embodiment the user may manipulate first and second analysis boundaries and . The user may enable use of the analysis boundaries by selecting an icon with their cursor . Once analysis boundaries are enabled a first analysis boundary marker may appear on the left side of the performance parameter graph in primary display section and a second analysis boundary marker may appear on the right side of the performance parameter graph in primary display section . As shown in using the cursor the user may drag and drop the first and second analysis boundary markers and so that only a subset of the performance parameter graph the portion remaining between the two analysis boundary markers is highlighted. When analysis boundaries are enabled the numerical performance parameter information displayed in the dashboard is only summed and or averaged for the subset of the workout highlighted within the analysis boundary markers.

When heart rate information is selected and displayed in the primary display icons representing the red yellow green and blue zones may be positioned on the right side of the heart rate graph in primary display section . The user may select or hover the cursor over one of these icons to display summary information for only the portions of the workout where the user was performing in the zone associated with the selected icon. For example in the user has selected the green icon on the right side of the heart rate graph. History sub module then displays a pop up window that may detail for example the numerical heart rate range corresponding to the selected zone for the particular user during that particular workout as well as time distance heart rate and pace information associated with the user s activity in the selected zone during the workout.

In an embodiment the user may be able to manually correct any recorded parameters that they know are inaccurate. Inaccuracies may be due to for example errors with the sensors employed by the portable fitness monitoring device used by the athlete . As shown in a user may correct for example the distance they traveled during a workout. The user may know the exact distance of a route routinely traveled and wish to update a distance inaccurately recorded by a distance sensor .

In another embodiment when a parameter such as distance is corrected the system may recalibrate the recorded and stored data. For example when the distance traversed for a particular run is corrected the distance data and corresponding distance graph for that run is corrected. In addition data and graphical displays that depend on the distance data such as pace data and graphical displays are also corrected.

In a further embodiment when a parameter such as distance is corrected this corrected data may be transmitted to the portable fitness monitoring device the next time the device is in communication with the network so that the portable fitness monitoring device s distance monitoring capability can be recalibrated if necessary.

The track module may also provide a front page sub module . is an exemplary GUI window that may be displayed by the front page sub module . The front page GUI may include plan tracker achievements last workout next workout and coach talk sections. In an embodiment the contents of the front page may be customized and reordered similarly to customizable web portals such as for example the iGoogle web portal.

The achievements section may provide icons that are correlated to particular performance parameters. In this way information displayed by the achievements section on the front page may be similar to information displayed by the dashboard of the other history pages. When a user selects a performance parameter icon in the achievements section cumulative and or average information about that parameter for various time periods may be displayed in the achievements section . For example as shown in heart rate percentage in zone may be displayed for the entire time the user has used the portable fitness monitoring system since a specific date in the last week or in the current week. The particular information displayed in the achievement section may be set by the system or customized by the user . Various information may be added or removed by the user as desired.

In an embodiment the last workout section displays stats for the last workout completed by the user and the next workout section displays information about upcoming planned workouts. The information provided by the achievements last workout and next workout sections may be similar to information provided to the user by other modules and sub modules but may conveniently be provided on a single page. The coach talk section may provide information similar to that provided by the coaching tips included in the workout list as described above with respect to . The coach talk section may therefore provide motivation point out a particular area of focus or otherwise provide guidance to the athlete related to the ultimate goal of their particular plan or workout.

In one embodiment front page includes a plan tracker section. The plan tracker may graphically display an individual s planned workouts the number of planned workouts completed and the number of planned workouts remaining to be completed. The plan tracker may provide indication s about whether the individual is meeting the specified goals for the completed workouts.

The particular information displayed in the plan tracker section may be set by the system or customized by the user . Various information may be added or removed by the user as desired. A user engaged in multiple plans simultaneously e.g. a running based plan and a non running based plan may choose to display multiple plan trackers at once. In an embodiment other trackers may be provided that display information similarly to the plan tracker . For example an athlete with a goal to lose weight may chose to display a weight tracker that tracks their progress towards a weight loss goal.

The track module may also support a message sub module . is an exemplary GUI window that may be displayed by the message sub module . The message sub module GUIs may have the general look and functionality of an email application such as Windows Mail or Gmail. In an embodiment the message sub module may be linked to one or more email addresses. The email addresses may include an email address specifically associated with the user s fitness monitoring system or general purpose email accounts provided by other providers.

At least some of the messages received by the user via the message sub module may be automatically generated by the server . Messages may for example congratulate the athlete for achieving certain training milestones or personal bests may provide motivation or other training advice to the athlete may provide new product or service updates and or downloads and may include other things such as birthday or holiday greetings.

As indicated above the menu bar may include several icons or indicia corresponding to the support library and forum modules.

The support module may support help and settings sub modules. is an exemplary GUI window that may be displayed by the help sub module . The help sub module may contain general information about the fitness monitoring system of the present invention including a brief description of the system its intended users and the potential benefits available to those users The help sub module may provide a description of the various functions of the interactive website supported by the software and the underlying modules sub modules and wizards.

The settings sub module may be able of displaying GUI windows for collecting storing and reviewing personal settings workout settings device settings and privacy settings .

The workout settings page may graphically and or numerically display the user s current zone ranges according to the color coded heart rate zone system described above. In an embodiment the user may be able to configure and customize heart rate pace or other custom workout interval settings via the workout settings page.

For example via the settings page the user may be able to adjust the audio feedback options provided by their portable device s during a workout. In one embodiment the user may select audio feedback with different types or styles of voices such as for example voices of different gendered speakers voices with different accents voices in different languages voices from celebrities or fictional characters and voices of different tones e.g. supportive calming energizing or stern . In another embodiment the user may select specific performance parameter measurements to be recited via audio feedback during the workout. For example a user may choose to have their elapsed time calories burned and distance traveled so far announced to them at regular intervals on demand or at predetermined times throughout the workout.

The privacy settings page may also allow the user to link their fitness monitoring account to a social networking site such as for example Facebook MySpace Twitter Friendster LinkedIn or the like. Users who link their profile to a social networking site may be able to specify how often their fitness information is updated to their social networking site and specifically what type of information is provided.

The library module may be capable of displaying GUI windows for videos and articles . The videos and articles may provide the user with additional resources for planning preparing for an executing their workouts.

In an embodiment the user may be able to download videos from the server to a portable fitness monitoring device having a video screen so that they may be viewed remotely. This may allow the athlete to view instructions regarding preparing for or executing their workouts at the site of their workout prior to or during their exercise routine.

The forum module may be capable of displaying GUI windows for user forums. In one embodiment as illustrated in the forum module may employ a social networking application such as for example Facebook. The social networking application may utilize an application programming interface that allows the social networking application such as Facebook to be embedded into the GUI windows of the present invention. In another embodiment the social networking site provides a feed that can be transmitted and displayed via the GUI windows of the present invention.

The forum page may be a place where users can exchange updates regarding their fitness planning and progress using the system of the present invention. Users may also exchange information regarding the website the particular training equipment and devices they are using the athletic events or races they are participating in and information giving and or requesting coaching or other advice.

Various aspects of the present invention or any parts or functions thereof may be implemented using hardware software firmware tangible computer readable or computer usable storage media having instructions stored thereon or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems.

Program products methods and systems for providing fitness monitoring services of the present invention can include any software application executed by one or more computing devices. A computing device can be any type of computing device having one or more processors. For example a computing device can be a workstation mobile device e.g. a mobile phone personal digital assistant or laptop computer server compute cluster server farm game console set top box kiosk embedded system a gym machine a retail system or other device having at least one processor and memory. Embodiments of the present invention may be software executed by a processor firmware hardware or any combination thereof in a computing device.

Software of the present invention may be stored on any computer usable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing device causes the data processing device to operate as described herein. Embodiments of the invention employ any computer usable or readable medium known now or in the future. Examples of computer usable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices MEMS nanotechnological storage devices etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. .

While many of the exemplary embodiments discussed above make reference to a color coded heart rate zone based system color coded zone systems based on zones of other parameters including but not limited to speed pace stride rate calories respiration rate blood oxygen level blood flow hydration status or body temperature may also be employed. The present invention is therefore not to be limited to only heart rate based zone systems.

Furthermore while many of the exemplary embodiments discussed above make reference to a color coded heart rate zone based system where the zones may be defined as ranges of percentages of an athlete s maximum heart rate heart rate zones may be defined based on other parameters as well.

In one embodiment heart rate zones may be defined as ranges of percentages of an athlete s maximum heart rate. In another embodiment heart rate zones may be defined as ranges derived from parameters such as an athlete s ventilation threshold heart rate. In a further embodiment heart rate zones may be defined as ranges derived from both the athlete s peak heart rate and the athlete s ventilation threshold heart rate.

An athlete s peak heart rate may or may not be the same as the athlete s maximum heart rate. As used herein peak heart rate refers to the highest heart rate that a particular athlete can achieve during a training session. The athlete s physiologically possible maximum heart rate may be higher that the peak heart rate. For some athletes typically those in top physical condition their peak heart rate may be very close to their max heart rate. For other athletes typically those who are less well conditioned their peak heart rate may be far less than their true physiologically possible max heart rate. Accordingly in an embodiment an athlete may enter their peak heart rate into their portable fitness monitoring device or save this information on the server . The athlete may also be able to capture peak heart rate information during an assessment run as described in further detail above.

As an exercise progressively increases in intensity the air into and out of your respiratory tract called ventilation increases linearly or similarly. As the intensity of exercise continues to increase there becomes a point at which ventilation starts to increase in a non linear fashion. This point where ventilation deviates from the progressive linear increase is called the ventilation threshold. The ventilation threshold is closely related to the lactate threshold or the point during intense exercise at which there is an abrupt increase in blood lactate levels. Research suggests that the ventilation and lactate thresholds may be some of the best and most consistent predictors of performance in endurance events. The athlete s heart rate at the ventilation threshold point may be referred to as their ventilation threshold heart rate. Accordingly in an embodiment an athlete may enter their ventilation threshold heart rate into their portable fitness monitoring device or save this information on the server . The athlete may also be able to capture ventilation threshold heart rate information during an assessment run as described in further detail above by using equipment necessary for determining ventilation and or lactate threshold.

In an embodiment the heart rate zones may be defined as ranges derived from both the athlete s peak heart rate and the athlete s ventilation threshold heart rate. For example Table 1 illustrates an exemplary embodiment in which color coded heart rate zones may be defined for an athlete with a peak heart rate PHR of 200 beats per minute and a ventilation threshold heart rate VTHR of 170 beats per minute 

As illustrated by Table 1 each color coded zone may be defined as having upper and lower limits. Each zone limit may be calculated based on PHR VTHR and or one of the other zone limits. A heart rate value associated with each zone limit may be correlated to a percentage of max heart rate if max heart rate is known or can be estimated. In an embodiment PHR is assumed to be 93.5 of an athlete s max heart rate value. Accordingly physical activities may be carried out and content may be presented via GUIs according to the color coded heart rate zone based system of the present invention.

As described above color coded pace or speed based systems may also be employed. In an embodiment upper and lower pace or speed zone limits may be derived in part from PHR and VTHR values. For example an athlete may conduct one or more physical activities using a heart rate monitor a ventilation threshold or lactate threshold monitor and or pace or speed monitors. Measurements may be conducted by portable monitors stationary monitors or in a laboratory after the physical activities are conducted. A relationship between the pace or speed of the athlete and max heart rate PHR and or VTHR may be established. Accordingly color coded pace or speed zone limits may be determined based on this information.

In another embodiment of the present invention zones may be determined based on a measurement of power. Power measurements may be derived from pace calculations if other parameters such as for example the athlete s body weight and the incline of the surface traversed e.g. incline of a sidewalk bike path or treadmill surface .

In an embodiment the athlete may be able to download mobile applications to a mobile device such as a mobile phone that are capable of presenting GUIs similar to those illustrated herein from server . Accordingly the athlete may be able to interact with the server access their account and perform many of the other planning tracking and other functions described herein from a mobile device.

The present invention has been described above by way of exemplary embodiments. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalences.

