---

title: Optimized microsystems-enabled photovoltaics
abstract: Technologies pertaining to designing microsystems-enabled photovoltaic (MEPV) cells are described herein. A first restriction for a first parameter of an MEPV cell is received. Subsequently, a selection of a second parameter of the MEPV cell is received. Values for a plurality of parameters of the MEPV cell are computed such that the MEPV cell is optimized with respect to the second parameter, wherein the values for the plurality of parameters are computed based at least in part upon the restriction for the first parameter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141413&OS=09141413&RS=09141413
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09141413
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121003
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent No. 61 565 369 filed on Nov. 30 2011 and entitled EFFICIENT SOLAR CELL . This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 914 441 filed on Oct. 28 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 933 458 filed on Nov. 1 2007. The entireties of such applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

As concerns continue to mount with respect to carbon emissions associated with conventional electric power generation systems continued research has been undertaken with respect to power generation systems that use renewable energy resources to generate electric power such as solar power systems wind power systems geothermal power systems and the like. With more particularity regarding solar cells such solar cells are designed to convert at least a portion of available light into electric energy. Solar cells are generally based upon semi conductor physics wherein a solar cell comprises a P N junction photodiode with a light sensitive area. The photovoltaic effect which causes a solar cell to convert light directly into electric energy occurs inside a semiconductor material where light knocks off electrons. Because of the structure of the cell there is an induced field that causes electrons to flow in one direction and collect at the terminals. One common structure of the solar cell is based on a PN junction composed of two layers a p type semiconductor and an n type semiconductor. The interface where the two join is referred to as a junction.

Cost to manufacture solar cells has reached a point where solar energy is beginning to become cost competitive with conventional fossil fuel burning systems.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to optimizing at least one characteristic of a photovoltaic PV cell are described herein. In an exemplary embodiment the PV cell can be a microsystem enabled PV MEPV cell which is constructed through utilization of semiconductor fabrication techniques is flexible has a size of approximately 2 mm or less in length and width a thickness equal or less than 30 m and has all backside contacts. The characteristic of the device that is optimized can be any suitable characteristic such as efficiency of the cell carrier lifetime of at least one material included in the cell resistance of the cell size of the cell amongst others.

A designer of the PV cell can set forth a restriction for at least one parameter of the PV cell wherein such restriction can be based upon manufacturing restrictions cost restrictions material availability or the like. For example the designer can indicate that a particular layer composed of a certain material must have a set thickness. The designer of the PV cell can subsequently cause a computer implemented algorithm to optimize efficiency of the PV cell while taking into account the restriction set forth by the designer. A PV cell of the design output by the computer implemented algorithm can then be manufactured with its efficiency optimized given the specified thickness constraint.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to Microsystems Enabled Photovoltaic MEPV cells will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. In addition several functional block diagrams of exemplary systems are illustrated and described herein for purposes of explanation however it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

With reference now to an exemplary methodology is illustrated and described. While the methodology is described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodology is not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodologies may be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like. The computer readable medium may be any suitable computer readable storage device such as memory hard drive CD DVD flash drive or the like. As used herein the term computer readable medium is not intended to encompass a propagated signal.

The methodology starts at and at a restriction on a first parameter of an MEPV cell is received. The term parameter is intended to encompass values that are indicative of physical properties and or operation of the MEPV cell. For example spacing between contacts of the MEPV cell is a parameter of the MEPV cell as it refers to a physical property of the cell. Likewise the efficiency of the MEPV cell refers to operation of the MEPV cell and is therefore also to be considered a parameter of the MEPV cell Other exemplary parameters include but are not limited to carrier lifetime of the MEPV cell resistance of the MEPV cell carrier lifetime duration of a material in the MEPV cell size of the MEPV cell or a particular portion therein amount of dopant included in a portion of the MEPV cell an amount of energy producible by the MEPV cell a ratio between species for an implant profile of the MEPV cell size of contacts of the MEPV cell separation between contacts of the MEPV cell thickness of a substrate of the MEPV cell magnitude of surface recombination velocity in the MEPV cell light concentration of the MEPV cell open circuit voltage of the MEPV cell short circuit current of the MEPV cell materials cost of the MEPV cell amongst others. It is also to be understood that in some cases a parameter may depend upon another parameter e.g. cell efficiency can depend upon cell size size of contacts etc.

A parameter can be restricted in any suitable manner for example a designer of an MEPV cell can set forth an absolute value or inequality as a restriction e.g. cell diameter is to be 2 mm . In other embodiments the designer of the MEPV cell can set forth a range e.g. cell diameter is to be between 2 mm and 4 mm . In still other embodiments a restriction can be a relative restriction e.g. thickness of the substrate is to be greater than thickness of the p type semiconductor layer in the MEPV cell . In still other embodiments a restriction can be some combination of these restrictions. At a selection of a second parameter is received wherein the designer of the MEPV cell desirably optimizes the MEPV cell with respect to the second parameter. The second parameter can be any suitable parameter of the MEPV cell including those listed above. Accordingly for example the designer may indicate that due to constraints imposed by manufacturing limitations contacts of the MEPV cell must be spaced by 50 m. The designer can input such restriction and indicate that cell efficiency is desirably optimized considering such restriction.

At values are computed for a plurality of parameters of the MEPV cell such that the MEPV cell is optimized with respect to the second parameter. The values are computed based at least in part upon the restriction for the first parameter of the MEPV cell. For example if designer indicates that the spacing between contacts is restricted to be 

Referring now to an exemplary system that facilitates designing a MEPV cell is illustrated. The system comprises a data repository that includes a plurality of selectable parameters of an MEPV cell. For instance upon accessing the system a designer can be provided with the parameters in list form on a display screen of a graphical user interface. The system further comprises a receiver component that receives a restriction on a first parameter of a MEPV cell e.g. selected from the MEPV parameters by the designer . The receiver component also receives a selection of a second parameter of the MEPV cell wherein the MEPV cell is desirably optimized with respect to the second parameter. An analysis component is in communication with the receiver component and computes respective values for parameters of the MEPV cell other than the first parameter and the second parameter wherein such values are computed to optimize the MEPV cell with respect to the second parameter. The analysis component computes the values such that any restrictions imposed by the designer are not violated and such that the MEPV cell is optimized with respect to the second parameter. Pursuant to an example the analysis component can compute the respective values for the plurality of parameters using learned dependencies between the parameters in the MEPV parameters . Exemplary dependencies between parameters are set forth below.

Referring now to a view of a substrate layer of an MEPV cell prior to being contacted is illustrated. The substrate layer comprises n type regions collectively shown by reference numeral and p type regions collectively shown by reference numeral implanted into the substrate layer . The implanted n type regions have a first size a first dosage e.g. an amount of material implanted during implantation defined as the integral over time of an implantation ion current and a first energy. Similarly the p type regions have a second size a second dosage and a second energy. These sizes and dosages can define a percentage of the substrate layer surface that contains implanted material. The sizes dosages ratios between sizes percentage of the substrate layer covered by implanted materials etc. can be included in the MEPV parameters .

Additionally the substrate layer may be composed of various different types of materials wherein each material can be associated with a carrier lifetime a resistance and a surface recombination velocity SRV which additionally can be included in the MEPV parameters .

Referring now to a front view of a contact layer of an exemplary MEPV cell is illustrated. The contact layer comprises an n contact and a p contact . The contacts and can be composed of a conductive metal. Further the n and p contacts and can be of an interdigitated structure such that the contacts comprise a series of alternating fingers or tines although it should be understood that other structures are contemplated. Parameters of the contact layer that can be included in the MEPV parameters include resistance which can be impacted by the structure of the contacts and . For example thickening of ends of the fingers may reduce the resistance of the metal contacts accordingly thickness of the fingers can also be a parameter included in the MEPV parameters .

Each contact and comprises a plurality of contact points collectively shown by reference numeral . The contact points have a particular size e.g. diameter and spacing e.g. distance between another contact point . It can be recognized that the contact spacing is correlated to the spacing of the n type and p type regions and depicted in such that when the contact layer is installed onto the substrate layer the contact points are in contact with the n type and p type regions and . The contact points when in such contact can be described by a contact coverage percent of the semiconductor material. The n contact and p contact are separated by a contact separation distance. It can therefore be ascertained that contact point size spacing contact coverage percentage and contact separation distance can be included in the MEPV parameters .

Referring now to a cross sectional view of an exemplary MEPV cell is illustrated. The MEPV cell has a certain diameter and comprises the substrate layer wherein the substrate layer has a particular thickness. The MEPC cell can further comprise an antireflective coating . When exposed to light photons are absorbed into the MEPV cell through the antireflective coating . The antireflective coating is employable to reduce reflection of incident light and may also be employable to reduce surface recombination velocity. The absorbed photons generate free holes or positive charge carriers collectively shown by reference numeral and electrons or negative charge carriers collectively shown by reference numeral . The holes can be collected at the p contact and electrons can be collected at the n contact . The collected holes and electrons create a current and a voltage between the contacts and which may be extracted from the MEPV cell .

After initial testing of prototype MEPV cells it was determined that MEPV cells are affected differently by a plurality of parameters than traditional PV cells. This differing behavior may be due at least in part to the sizes of components and materials the 3 dimensional structure of the cell versus the traditional 1 dimensional stacked PV cell and other factors.

Although parameters of MEPV cells may be complexly interrelated with one another optimization of a parameter through the techniques described above is particularly beneficial in connection with enhancing efficiency of MEPV cells for example. Described below are learned interdependencies between parameters that can be taken into consideration when optimizing an MEPV cell with respect to a selected parameter.

Simulations of back contacted solar cells with a constant material SRH lifetime showed no change in performance if the material resistance varied. This was found to be true for both small 2 m and large 200 m separation between contacts. The wafers used for the first cells fabricated a test group had a resistance of 20 30 cm. Larger separation between contacts where resistance may play a more important role were not explored.

Simulations were run to observe the influence of SRH lifetime on cell performance. Device widths of 4 and 400 m with a thickness of 20 m were used for the simulations. The implant widths were 0.5 m and the contact sizes were 0.25 m separated by 2 m for the first device and 200 m for the second device. Implantations of boron energy 45 keV and phosphorus energy 120 keV were created with a dose of 1 10cm tilt of 7 degrees and range of 0.15 m for both dopants. A patterned 2.2 m thick photoresist was used to selectively mask the implantations. A drive in step was performed for 30 minutes at 900 degrees C. in a nitrogen N atmosphere. SRH lifetimes of 5 ms 0.5 ms 5 s and 0.5 s were plotted.

With reference to graphs and illustrate efficiency in percentage current density in mA cm and open circuit voltage V in volts versus the SRH lifetime for two different cases respectively a device with contact separation of 2 m graph and another with a contact separation of 200 m graph . The graphs and illustrate that higher lifetimes are preferred over lower lifetimes. For higher lifetimes a larger separation was preferred but for low quality wafers lifetime

Referring now to graphs and illustrating the influence of contact distance and SRH lifetime on efficiency current density and open circuit voltage are illustrated. In two tendencies can be observed. Efficiency decreased as the distance between electrodes increased for low lifetime materials this showed the efficacy of using close contacts . However high quality materials expressed the opposite occurrence the efficiency increased as the distance between electrodes increased. This can be explained as follows for low quality materials contacts must be close together so carriers do not recombine on their way to collection points. If the contacts are close together more carriers can be collected and higher currents can be achieved. For high quality materials the carriers will have a long time to find the collection areas before they combine. As the distance between the electrodes increased the percentage of area with implantations and contacts decreased. Because these areas represent high recombination sites higher Vs and efficiencies are obtained as the distance between contacts was increased when using high quality wafers.

With reference now to graphs and illustrating influence of percentage of area covered by implants for different SRV values and different implant locations is illustrated. These graphs and depict two noteworthy results when excellent surface passivation SRV 0 was present the current density was independent of the percentage of area covered with implants. However when using a poorly passivated cell high SRV current density was increased as the percentage of area covered with implants was augmented. The higher coverage of implantations produces passivation by fields on the back of the cell. Thus Vand efficiency are peaked at the maximum coverage of 98 when using poorly passivated substrates. On the other hand V and efficiency for high quality surface passivation have a small dependence on the amount of back area implants. In this case efficiency was found to be maximized when using 1 back coverage.

A point contact solar cell type was analyzed. A point contact solar cell has metal that only touches the semiconductor at small areas. In a simulation the influence of contact area on efficiency current density and open circuit voltage was investigated. For the simulation a device 400 m wide with a contact separation of 200 m was used on a 20 m thick device. SRV numbers were set to 0 cm s. The implant types doses and energies were the same as those used to generate the graphs and . The implantation area was kept to 98 and was split in half between the two dopants. The percentage of the contacted back area varied. Percent values included 98 10 1 and 0.13 .

With reference now to a graph illustrating influence of percentage of area contacted with respect to efficiency current density and open circuit voltage of a MEPV cell is illustrated. Although the collected current is shown to remain consistent with the percentages the 900 reveals that the open circuit voltage was influenced by the percentage of area being contacted. Vand efficiency are shown to be maximized when using smaller contacts. Furthermore there may be an enhanced maximization effect in current due to enhanced back reflection. Metal insulator interfaces are more reflective than metal semiconductor interfaces whereas the model is considered a perfect reflector for both cases.

As noted above size of the implanted back area can have an influence on the performance of the solar cell. In simulations undertaken the effect of the ratio of dopants in the implantation on the cell performance is shown. The ratio between dopants was altered while keeping the percentage coverage fixed to 48 . In this case a 400 m wide unit cell with a contact separation of 200 m and thickness of 20 m was used. The implant types doses and energies were the same as those used to generate the graphs and . The ratios between p n dopants were varied and took values of 95 20.33 4.18 1 0.24 0.049 and 0.01.

An inverse effect on efficiency was found when SRV 0 compared with when SRV 2000. When SRV 0 the efficiency was increased because of an increased base size p doped on a p substrate . When however SRV 2000 the effect was the opposite the efficiency was decreased when a smaller base was used.

With reference to graphs and generally illustrating influence of ratio of back coverage between p and n dopants for different SRVs with respect to efficiency current density and open circuit voltage are illustrated.

Solar cell performance also depends on the junction design. For simulations undertaken the junction design was optimized by changing the implant dose and the energy of the implanted dopants. A 4 m wide device with a contact separation of 2 m and a thickness of 20 m was used. The implantation width was 0.5 m and the contact size was 0.25 m. Two cases were analyzed one with fixed energy and variable dose and another with fixed dose and variable energy. For the first case the energy was fixed at 45 keV and the dose was changed from 10cmto 10cmin variations of one order of magnitude. For the second case the dose was fixed at 10cmand the energy had values of 10 30 70 95 and 120 keV.

Turning to graphs and illustrating influence of implant dose and implant energy with respect to efficiency current density and open circuit voltage are shown. reveals that current voltage and efficiency were increased as the dose increased graph . also reveals that the voltage and the efficiency dropped when the energy of the implant was increased graph .

In a first simulation as the implantation dose was increased an increased bending of the bands toward the contacts was created. The bending of the conduction and valence band acts as a barrier for one type of carrier while becoming an easy path for the other type of carrier. Therefore bent bands reduce recombination in the doped regions by blocking one type of carrier. Through this process the voltage and efficiency are increased. Also a strong bending close to the metallization improves the ohmic contact. For the second simulation as the energy of the implantation was increased the peak of the doping was farther away from the interface e.g. the dopants were more deeply implanted into the semiconductor which caused a less effective ohmic contact. Higher energies also increased the volume of the highly doped silicon which is a high recombination site.

It is known that silicon is an indirect semiconductor and that the absorbance for these materials is significantly smaller than for direct semiconductors. Simulations were undertaken to ascertain influence of substrate thickness on the solar cell performance for two wafer qualities two SRH lifetimes . For these simulations a 42 mm wide device with a contact separation of 21 mm was used. The implantation width is 8 m and the contact size is 3 m. The implant energies were 45 keV for boron and 120 keV for phosphorus with a dose of 1 10cmfor the dopants. The thickness of the substrate was varied with values 1 3 10 30 100 300 and 1000 m.

With reference to graphs and illustrating the influence of substrate thickness for high and low quality cells on efficiency current density and open circuit voltage of a MEPV cell are shown. displays the influence of the substrate thickness for two cases one using a high quality substrate with a SRH lifetime of 10 s. As the thickness of the high lifetime substrate increased the voltage and current increased with a behavior of diminished returns. For 300 m substrates the efficiency was reduced as the thickness was increased. For the low quality substrate the efficiency increased as the thickness increased peaked around 30 m and decreased for thicknesses of 100 m and greater. Therefore low quality substrates can be utilized to make high efficiency cells if the substrates are thin. It is shown in the graph that there is a tradeoff between absorption and bulk recombination lifetime or diffusion length . It has been suggested in the literature that a ratio of 2.3 between the carrier diffusion length and the wafer thickness should be used for optimum electronic confinement.

The behaviors were caused by the increased bulk recombination as the substrate was thickened because generated carriers travel through the thickness of the wafer to find the contacts. The effect is more obvious for shorter lifetimes than for longer lifetimes. The amount of material needed to obtain a certain amount of power is often represented as the grams per watt peak. Turning to a graph illustrating the grams per watt peak as a function of substrate thickness is shown. The amount of material needed per watt peak decreased drastically as the cells were made thinner. For solar cells the efficiency does not diminish linearly with the thickness whereas the amount of material does diminish linearly. Material costs are a relatively large portion of total module cost therefore reducing material use while keeping efficiencies high is a key to achieving grid parity. Producing ultrathin cells is a means to reducing the amount of material used. illustrates that values as low as 0.3 g wattcan be achieved and perhaps even lower with ultrathin wafers.

Light concentration on solar cells has proven to be beneficial. The record for solar cell conversion efficiency in silicon was set using concentrated light. Simulations directed towards ascertaining influence of light concentration on MEPV cells were conducted on two devices one with a width of 20 m and contact separation of 10 m and a second with a width of 200 m and contact separation of 200 m. For both devices the substrate was 20 m thick with an implantation width of 1 m and a contact size of 0.5 m. The implant energies were 45 keV for boron and 120 keV for phosphorus with a dose of 1 10cmfor both dopants. The optical concentration was varied number of suns in values of 0.1 1 10 100 and 200. Experimental prototypes were tested in concentrations of light below 1 sun.

Surface recombination and passivation has a strong effect on the performance of MEPV cells due to the proximity of surfaces to active regions of the device. Unpassivated atoms at surfaces have incomplete bonds that act as carrier traps. SRV measures the quality of surface passivation in which slower velocities indicate improved passivation. An increase in SRV generally corresponds to a decrease in cell efficiency short circuit current and open circuit voltage which start from an asymptotic maximum and approach 0 for high values of SRV.

With reference to graphs and illustrating influence of SRV on MEPV cell performance are shown. Several different devices were simulated. The first case graph had a fixed back SRV equal to zero whereas the front SRV varied. The second case graph expressed the opposite it had a fixed front SRV equal to zero and a back SRV that varied. The third case graph had an SRV that varied in front and back surfaces. In all cases a m wide and 20 m thick substrate with a contact separation of 21 m was used. The implantation width was 8 m and the contact size was 3 m. The implant energies were 45 keV for boron and 120 keV for phosphorus with a dose of 1 10cmfor both dopants. The surface recombination was varied from 10 to 10cm sincrementing one order of magnitude between each point in the graph.

As predicted surface recombination has a crucial role in the performance of the cell. Surface recombination at the front degrades the performance faster than having the same amount of surface recombination in the back. When top and bottom surface recombination is present the same design of contacts implantations and geometrical values can yield efficiencies from less than 1 for high SRVs to 20 for low SRVs.

The simulations referenced above were conducted through utilization of a computer software program that uses numerical methods. Two main tools were employed to simulate the process and electronic behavior of the device TSUPREM r and Medici both by SYNOPSYS . The code programmed in Medici simultaneously solves three coupled nonlinear partial differential equations at every position in the simulated device Poisson s equation the continuity equation for holes and the continuity equation for electrons. Such equations are discretized and solved with boundary conditions for each point in the mesh. Because such equations are coupled and non linear a numerical method can be used to perform the simulations.

Now referring to graphs and of the simulated performance of MEPV cells optimized for cell efficiency are illustrated.

The above described influences and considerations can be used so as to for any given restrictions on parameters of the MEPV cell compute values for the plurality of parameters of the MEPV cell to be incorporated into a design optimized with respect to a selected parameter. In one example in a design wherein cell efficiency is the selected parameter parameters may be restricted as follows high carrier lifetime high light concentration high dosage low energy small contact size a contact separation of 200 m an implant coverage percentage of 3 and a substrate thickness of 20 m. Based on the foregoing MEPV cells may be designed so as to have a theoretical cell efficiency of as much as 25.68 .

Referring to layers and of an exemplary MEPV cell that is optimized by way of simulation with respect to a particular scenario is illustrated. It can be noted by viewing that the MEPV cell includes interdigitated fingers that are trapezoidal in shape. The MEPV cell can be built using a relatively inexpensive substrate such as Si. For instance the substrate can have a relatively low lifetime and a relatively simple passivation method compared to other potential substrates. The implantation area is shown as covering a majority of the back of the cell and create a back surface field that enhances passivation. Specifically the implantation area is shown as being an interdigitated structure where fingers are positioned proximate to one another e.g. 10 m or less . As shown in the n doped area is larger than the p area e.g. more than eight times larger when the wafer is a p type wafer. The reverse is true when the wafer is an n type wafer e.g. the p doped area is more than eight times larger . Furthermore it is to be understood that a dielectric layer can be disposed between the semiconductor material and the metal possibly surrounding the whole cell. The alternate fingers of metal are as thin as the separation between different implanted areas and are as close as possible without touching between fingers of different polarity. Still further an amount of metal that touches the semiconductor is as small as possible such as on the order of less than 0.1 percent. Gaps between fingers or the area not covered with metal is desirably relatively small to provide maximum back reflection of photons. Additionally fingers can be thinner towards the end of the cell and thicker towards the base of the cell.

Referring collectively to another description of an optimized solar cell with respect to another particular scenario is described. In such scenario a high quality substrate with high lifetime and an optimum passivation layer is employed. As shown in the implantation area is minimum in the back of the cell which reduces carrier recombination in the contacts. Since the passivation is optimum the creation of a back surface field is not necessary. The implantation area is an alternate succession of small areas of different dopant p and n where different polarity areas are as far from each with other as possible but less than the measured carrier diffusion length in the passivated wafer or silicon. The n doped area is greater than eight times bigger than the p covered area for n type wafers and the p area is over eight times bigger than the n covered area for p type materials. A dielectric can be disposed between the semiconductor and the metal and possibly surrounding the whole cell. The alternate fingers of metal are as wide as the distance between centers of doped areas are and are as close as possible without touching between fingers of different polarity. Additionally an amount of metal that touches the semiconductor is as small as the process allows e.g. 

Now referring to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that supports designing an MEPV cell. In another example at least a portion of the computing device may be used in a system that supports facilitating the design of an MEPV cell. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The memory may be or include RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other suitable memory. The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store steps for facilitating the design of an MEPV cell relationships and influences by and between parameters and characteristics of an MEPV cell parameters and characteristics of an MEPV cell or designs for an MEPV cell.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may be or include any suitable computer readable storage including a hard disk memory etc. The data store may include executable instructions parameter values parameter restrictions etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

