---

title: Collecting web pages/links from communications and documents for later reading
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products for collecting webpages/links from communications and documents for later reading is disclosed. User interface elements allow a user to select multiple webpages or links at once for addition to a reading list or other data structure for later reading. The selection mode may be entered using a variety of inputs. Animated user interface elements indicate the progress of adding the webpages or links to the data structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075884&OS=09075884&RS=09075884
owner: APPLE INC.
number: 09075884
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120716
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 492 749 for Collecting Web Pages Links From Communications and Documents for Later Reading filed Jun. 8 2012 the subject matter of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A bookmark is a locally stored Uniform Resource Identifier URI for a webpage on the World Wide Web WWW . Bookmarks are typically accessed through a menu in a user s web browser but can also be accessed or managed by an external application. A bookmark folder or bar can be used to organize bookmarks on a device. Shared bookmarks allow users to share similar interests or to pool web resources. Remote servers can store bookmarks so the bookmarks are accessible from anywhere in the world through a network connection using wired or wireless devices.

Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. USA introduced a Reading List feature in its iOS 5 operating system. Reading List is a bookmarking feature that allows tagging of websites for reading later. The Reading List can be synced across mobile and desktop browsers through Apple s iCloud service.

Systems methods and computer program products for collecting webpages links from communications or documents for later reading are disclosed. One or more user interface elements allow a user to select multiple webpages or links at once for addition to a reading list or other data structure for later reading. The links can be included in a webpage or any other communication e.g. e mail text message blog Tweet social network post or document e.g. .pdf word processing document . The selection mode may be entered using a variety of inputs such as a long press on a link or by pressing a user interface element. Visual feedback can be provided to the user that the selection mode has been entered. For example visual feedback such as a flash or a vertical transition sweeping over the viewable links can be used to inform the user that the selection mode has been entered. An audio effect e.g. a beep or force feedback e.g. a vibration also can be used as feedback to the user that the selection mode has been entered.

In the selection mode a check box or other suitable user interface element can be provided next to each webpage or link that allows a user to select individual pages or links to be included in the reading list or other data structure all at once. In some implementations once the selection mode is entered another user interface element can be provided that allows the user to select all available webpages or links for inclusion in the reading list or other data structure.

In some implementations user interface elements indicate the status of adding webpages or links to the data structure. For example the adding can be initiated by selecting a bookmark icon or other user interface element. The bookmark icon can be animated to transition into a reading list icon during the adding. The reading list icon can include a progress indicator to indicate the progress of the adding.

Particular implementations disclosed herein provide one or more of the following advantages. A user can save time by selecting multiple webpages or links at once for addition to a reading list or other data structure for later reading or viewing.

The details of the disclosed implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Although a mobile device is described in this example the disclosed implementations can be used by any device capable of displaying webpages or links including but not limited to smart phones notebook computers desktop computers e mail devices network appliances game consoles TV set top boxes etc. Although a stocks application is described in this example the disclosed implementations can be used by any application that is executed on a device or is provided as a Web application by a remote service through a network such as service described in reference to .

In the example shown a user desires to move links to a reading list. A reading list is a bookmarking feature that allows tagging of websites for reading later. Although a reading list is described in this example the disclosed implementations can use any data structure for bookmarking webpages or links for later reading including but not limited to a bookmark bar or menu. To save a plurality of links to the reading list the user can make a long press e.g. one or more seconds on any one of links to place the device in a selection mode. If the display is touch sensitive or a track pad is providing user input the user can press the link with their finger or a stylus. If the display is not touch sensitive the user can click on the link with a pointing device e.g. a mouse or hover a cursor over the link for a predetermined amount of time e.g. one or more seconds . Alternatively a dedicated or context sensitive user interface element can be included in user interface which when selected presents a window pane or menu with one or more options for selecting one or more links for inclusion in the reading list.

In some implementations a visual audio or force feedback cue can be provided to the user indicating that the selection mode has been entered. For example a flash or vertical transition sweeping over the viewable links can be used to provide visual feedback to the user a sound effect e.g. a beep can be used to provide audio feedback to the user and a vibration can be used to provide force feedback to the user.

In some implementations pane can include elements and . These elements can be any user interface element including but not limited to virtual buttons. In this example pane displays a View in Browser button for invoking a browser application on device and displaying e.g. automatically displaying the webpage corresponding to the selected link in the browser window. Pane also displays a Add to reading list button for adding the link to a reading list for later reading. Pane also displays an Add all to reading list button for adding all of links embedded in the currently displayed webpage to the reading list. After selecting one of buttons and the option is executed and pane is removed from user interface .

Also illustrated in is an exemplary reading list . In this example the user has invoked reading list by pressing button in user interface . Reading list also can be invoked using a menu option or any other desired input mechanism. Reading list includes the links selected from pane . The user can invoke reading list at any time in the future and select a link to access the webpage corresponding to the link.

In some implementations the webpage is retrieved from its source website. In other implementations the webpage information is stored in memory on device . Storing the webpage information on device allows the user to retrieve and read the webpage even when device is disconnected from the network. In some implementations the webpage can be reformatted e.g. to remove advertisements before being displayed on device .

Reading list can include menu bar for managing or filtering the display of links in reading list . In this example the options include Clear All to clear all links from the reading list All to display all links Unread to display only unread links Add Page to add the currently viewed webpage and Add all to add all of the links in the currently viewed webpage. The last two options provide an alternative means for adding a currently displayed webpage to reading list .

Using this grouping feature the user can group links together under a common name or label in reading list . The groups can be visually delineated in reading list using any desired visual effects including but not limited to text lines background colors or patterns animation highlighting glowing effect etc.

In addition to e mails the disclosed implementations are also applicable to other types of communications and documents. For example .pdf and word processing documents often include embedded links to webpages. When a user opens these documents using a .pdf reader or word processor for example the links can be collected and presented to the user for inclusion into a reading list or other data structure as previously described in reference to .

In some implementations links can be collected from social networking sites and blogs. For example a user interface element or other input mechanism can be presented on a social network page that allows the user to collect links from posts or other messages or documents.

For any of the above described communications and documents links can be collected according to a user specified criteria. For example a user of a social network can specify that all links be collected for posts that were published to the user s wall or other communication domain over a user specified date range. In another example links posted by a particular individual or group or that contain certain topics or keywords can be collected for potential inclusion into a reading list using the user interface elements described in reference to . In sum any suitable criteria can be used to collect links for potential inclusion into a reading list or other data structure for later reading. The criteria can be specified by an application or network based service provider or can be user specified using a suitable settings option.

In some implementations user interface elements for collecting links can be context sensitive and based on the communication or document type. For example the communication or document type can first be identified and then an appropriate user interface element for entering a selection mode or for initiating collection of links can be generated for display.

In some implementations process can begin by receiving input specifying adding all page s link s in a communication or document to a reading list or other data structure . The input can be provided using one or more user interface elements such as the user interface elements described in reference to .

Process can continue by generating for display all page s link s on a display of a device for selection . The displaying can be implemented using various panes windows lists or any suitable user interface elements. Examples of suitable user interface elements were described in reference to . Step can be optional depending on which one of user interface elements are selected See . For example if the user selects button all the links are added to the reading list or other data structure without allowing the user to select individual links for inclusion into the reading list or other data structure. In this example use scenario step would also be skipped.

If step is performed process continues by receiving second input selecting page s link s to be added to the reading list or other data structure . The selecting step can be implemented using for example check boxes. Other suitable user interface elements can also be used to select links.

Process can continue by adding the selected page s link s to the reading list or other data structure .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example motion sensor light sensor and proximity sensor can be coupled to peripherals interface to facilitate orientation lighting and proximity functions of the device. For example in some implementations light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of touch surface . In some implementations motion sensor e.g. an accelerometer gyros can be utilized to detect movement and orientation of the device. Accordingly display objects or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape .

Other sensors can also be connected to peripherals interface such as a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

Location processor e.g. GPS receiver can be connected to peripherals interface to provide geo positioning. Electronic magnetometer e.g. an integrated circuit chip can also be connected to peripherals interface to provide data that can be used to determine the direction of magnetic North. Thus electronic magnetometer can be used as an electronic compass.

Camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more communication subsystems . Communication subsystem s can include one or more wireless communication subsystems. Wireless communication subsystems can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. Wired communication system can include a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or some other wired port connection that can be used to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving or transmitting data. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s or medium s over which the device is intended to operate. For example a device may include wireless communication subsystems designed to operate over a global system for mobile communications GSM network a GPRS network an enhanced data GSM environment EDGE network 802.x communication networks e.g. WiFi WiMax or 3G networks code division multiple access CDMA networks and a Bluetooth network. Communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices. As another example the communication subsystems can allow the device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP protocol HTTP protocol UDP protocol and any other known protocol.

Audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and one or more microphones to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

I O subsystem can include touch controller and or other input controller s . Touch controller can be coupled to a touch surface . Touch surface and touch controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a number of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch surface . In one implementation touch surface can display virtual or soft buttons and a virtual keyboard which can be used as an input output device by the user.

Other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of speaker and or microphone .

In some implementations device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations device can include the functionality of an MP3 player and may include a pin connector for tethering to other devices. Other input output and control devices can be used.

Memory interface can be coupled to memory . Memory can include high speed random access memory or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . Memory can store operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. Operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations operating system can include a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

Memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers or servers such as communicating with servers through network . Communication instructions can also be used to select an operational mode or communication medium for use by the device based on a geographic location obtained by the GPS Navigation instructions of the device. Memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing such as generating and displaying the various user interface elements described in reference to sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions including instructions for implementing an e mail application described in reference to web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions including facilitating communication with a services described in reference to media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and other instructions . The memory may also store other software instructions for facilitating other processes features and applications such as applications related to navigation social networking location based services or map displays.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. Memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

In some implementations devices and can communicate over one or more wired or wireless networks . For example wireless network e.g. a cellular network can communicate with a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet by use of gateway . Likewise access device e.g. IEEE 802.11g wireless access device can provide communication access to WAN . Devices can be any device capable of displaying GUIs including but not limited to portable computers smart phones and electronic tablets. In some implementations the devices do not have to be portable but can be a desktop computer television system kiosk system or the like.

In some implementations both voice and data communications can be established over wireless network and access device . For example device can place and receive phone calls e.g. using voice over Internet Protocol VoIP protocols send and receive e mail messages e.g. using SMPTP or Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 and retrieve electronic documents and or streams such as web pages photographs and videos over wireless network gateway and WAN e.g. using Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP . Likewise in some implementations device can place and receive phone calls send and receive e mail messages and retrieve electronic documents over access device and WAN . In some implementations device or can be physically connected to access device using one or more cables and access device can be a personal computer. In this configuration device or can be referred to as a tethered device.

Devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other devices or cell phones over the wireless network . Likewise devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices. Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

Devices or can communicate with service over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example service can be any service that provides webpages using a web server including a social networking website blog or Twitter as described in reference to .

Device or can also access other data and content over one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites Really Simple Syndication RSS feeds Web sites and developer networks can be accessed by device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser running on the device or

Devices and can exchange files over one or more wireless or wired networks either directly or through service .

Referring to user interface includes tool bar . Tool bar includes user interface element for indicating adding progress. User interface can be a Web browser window for displaying the webpage or link to be added. The webpage including any embedded links to other webpages can be selected for adding using techniques previously described in this disclosure. For example user interface element e.g. button can be selected by a user to initiate adding of the webpage or link displayed in user interface which in this example is a Web browser window.

A webpage or link that is currently being added can be represented by an animated graphical object e.g. a spinning wheel or hourglass and or text such as Saving for offline reading . . . . A webpage or link that is waiting to be added can be represented by text such as Waiting . . . . Status can also be indicated by other means such as color changes or other visual clues animation and or audio or force feedback.

In some implementations menu can include user interface elements e.g. tabs for providing selectable options. In the example shown tabs are provided for selectively displaying one of a history list a bookmark list or a reading list. In the example shown the reading list tab is selected indicated by the highlighted glasses icon . Tabs allow the user to display all content in the reading list or only unread content in the reading list.

Referring to during adding user interface element bookmark icon transitions to user interface element reading list icon using animation such that user interface element is replaced with user interface at the end of the animated transition. Any desired animation effect can be used for the transition including but not limited to sliding flipping fading in out etc. In the example shown user interface element also includes progress indicator for visually indicating the progress of adding the webpage to the reading list. For example progress indicator can be a representative graphical object a bar that fills with color shading or a pattern to indicate adding progress. When adding is completed user interface element reading list icon transitions back to user interface element bookmark icon . The transition can be animated using the same or different animation as the transition from user interface element to user interface element .

Process can begin by displaying a first user interface element representing a first data structure . The first user interface element can be for example a graphical object representing a bookmark list.

Process can continue by receiving input to archive a webpage or link to a second data structure . The second data structure can be for example a reading list. The input can be user input.

Process continues by initiating the adding of the webpage or link to the second data structure . During the adding step information related to the webpage or link can be stored in memory on the device.

During the adding step process continues by transitioning the first user interface element into a second user interface element representing the second data structure . The second user interface element can include a first representative graphical object representing the second data structure and a second representative graphical object representing progress of adding information related to the webpage or link into the second data structure. The transitioning can be implemented using any desired animation effect e.g. sliding flipping . Transitioning can include replacing the first user interface element with the second user interface element. In some implementations the contents of the second data structure can be displayed during adding automatically or in response to user interaction with the second user interface element.

Process can continue by determining that adding has completed and transitioning the second user interface element into the first user interface element . The transitioning can be implemented using any desired animation effect e.g. sliding flipping . Transitioning can include replacing the second user interface element with the first user interface element.

In some implementations user interface element can be pressed or touched to display the contents of the data structure which in this example is a reading list as shown in . Reading list can slide in from the bottom of the touch sensitive display or can slide into the display from the top or sides of the touch sensitive display. In general any desired animation effect can be used to transition reading list onto the touch sensitive display. Reading list can be scrollable by the user s fingers.

In the example shown Webpage represented by webpage description is currently being added to reading list as indicated by the animated graphical object and text description Saving for offline reading . . . . When the adding step has completed user interface element transitions back to the user interface element prior to the adding.

In some implementations voice commands can be used as inputs for initiating the adding of webpages or links to a data structure. The voice commands can be processed by a speech recognition engine on the device.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The features can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output.

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer can communicate with mass storage devices for storing data files. These mass storage devices can include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with an author the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the author and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the author can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

One or more features or steps of the disclosed embodiments can be implemented using an Application Programming Interface API . An API can define on or more parameters that are passed between a calling application and other software code e.g. an operating system library routine function that provides a service that provides data or that performs an operation or a computation.

The API can be implemented as one or more calls in program code that send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure based on a call convention defined in an API specification document. A parameter can be a constant a key a data structure an object an object class a variable a data type a pointer an array a list or another call. API calls and parameters can be implemented in any programming language. The programming language can define the vocabulary and calling convention that a programmer will employ to access functions supporting the API.

In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities of a device running the application such as input capability output capability processing capability power capability communications capability etc.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. Elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

