---

title: Proxy caregiver interface
abstract: A patient support apparatus for use in a healthcare facility has associated therewith a graphical user interface (GUI) that is operable to display information pertaining to features of the patient support apparatus and to display information pertaining to features of other patient support apparatuses. Under some circumstances, the GUI may also be used to control functions of some of the other patient support apparatuses. A bed data server is communicatively coupled to the patient support apparatus and to the other patient support apparatuses to control information flow to the GUI from the other patient support apparatuses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044361&OS=09044361&RS=09044361
owner: Hill-Rom Services, Inc.
number: 09044361
owner_city: Batesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120724
---
The present disclosure relates to patient support apparatuses such as hospital beds. More particularly the present disclosure relates to patient support apparatuses having graphical user interfaces for viewing data and entering commands.

Hospital beds having graphical user interfaces GUI s which are sometimes referred to as graphical caregiver interfaces GCI s by those skilled in the art are known. The GUI s of some hospital beds are able to receive user inputs for controlling bed functions and are able to display a wide variety of data or information to caregivers. Some of the types of bed information displayed on such GUI s may include for example bed height data bed position data e.g. horizontal recumbent fowler cardiac leg raised vascular Trendelenburg reverse Trendelenburg and chair head angle brake status data side rail status data surface state e.g. normal max inflate sleep mode seat deflate alternating pressure wave mode such as Hill Rom s OPTIREST feature left right turn assist and continuous lateral rotation therapy . Some of the bed functions controllable with GUI s of hospital beds may include for example articulation of head thigh and foot sections bed height adjustments brake set release and surface control functions for those hospital beds having an integrated bed frame and mattress system.

GUI s of some hospital beds are also usable to control a weigh scale system and patient position monitoring PPM functions of beds. The GUI s of such beds typically display patient weight. Other patient information that may be displayed on a GUI of a hospital bed includes patient height vital signs information e.g. temperature blood pressure heart rate respiration rate and saturation of peripheral oxygen SpO2 inputs e.g. fluids and solids and outputs e.g. fluids and solids . Various alarms are also displayed on GUI s of some prior art hospital beds. These alarms may include head angle alarms PPM alarms siderail position alarms and so on.

Hospital bed manufacturers are known to offer GUI s as an option that can be purchased by healthcare facilities at an increased cost. Thus beds that lack GUI s are usually less expensive than beds that have GUI s assuming all other features of the beds with and without GUI s are equal. Of course the beds without GUI s typically have manual type user inputs such as buttons knobs levers and the like for controlling various bed functions. Beds with GUI s oftentimes also include these manual type user inputs as well for control redundancy. Accordingly it will be appreciated that reducing the number of beds having GUI s represents a cost savings to healthcare facilities.

An apparatus system or method may comprise one or more of the features recited in the appended claims and or the following features which alone or in any combination may comprise patentable subject matter 

A patient support apparatus for use in a healthcare facility having at least one other patient support apparatus is provided. The patient support apparatus may include a patient support structure to support a patient a graphical user interface GUI and control circuitry that may be carried by the patient support structure and that may be coupled to the GUI. The GUI may be operable to display information pertaining to features of the patient support apparatus and to display information pertaining to features of the at least one other patient support apparatus.

In some embodiments the GUI may be operable to control functions of the patient support apparatus and to control functions of the at least one other patient support apparatus. According to this disclosure the GUI may include a field that is selectable to obtain a menu of the at least one other patient support apparatus for which information may be obtained and or that may be controlled using the GUI. The GUI may include visual indicia to indicate that the GUI is in a mode in which the data shown on the GUI pertains to one of the at least one other patient support apparatus and not the patient support apparatus and or a mode in which the at least one other patient support apparatus is controllable with the GUI. For example the visual indicia may include a colored border around a periphery of the GUI.

In some embodiments if a first screen pertaining to the patient support apparatus is displayed on the GUI when the field is initially selected by a user to display the menu then in response to one of the at least one other patient support apparatus being selected by the user from the menu corresponding information to that of the first screen is shown on the GUI for the selected patient support apparatus.

According to this disclosure the patient support apparatus comprises a first hospital bed and the at least one other patient support apparatus comprises a plurality of hospital beds. In some embodiments the patient support structure may comprise a bed frame having a siderail that is moveable between a raised position to serve as a barrier inhibiting a patient from exiting the patient support structure and a lowered position permitting a patient to exit the patient support structure and the GUI may be mounted to the siderail. In other embodiments the GUI is mounted to at least one of a wall and a piece of architectural equipment that is located in a room in which the patient support structure is located. Such architectural equipment may include for example a head wall unit a bed locator unit a column a wall mounted or ceiling suspended arm a cart a service chase and so forth.

According to an aspect of this disclosure a system may include a first patient support apparatus that may have a graphical user interface GUI to view first data pertaining to the first patient support apparatus a second patient support apparatus and a bed data server remote from the first and second patient support apparatuses. The bed data server may be communicatively coupled to the first and second patient support apparatuses. The bed data server may provide second data pertaining to the second patient support apparatus to the first patient support apparatus for display on the GUI in response to user inputs entered on the GUI of the first patient support apparatus.

The GUI of the first patient support apparatus may include visual indicia such as a colored border to indicate that the GUI is displaying data pertaining to the second patient support apparatus. Alternatively or additionally the visual indicia may include a room designator that indicates a location in a healthcare facility at which the second patient support apparatus is located.

According to some embodiments of this disclosure if the first and second patient support apparatuses are located in a common room of a healthcare facility then the GUI may be usable to control functions of both the first and second patient support apparatuses. However if the first and second patient support apparatuses are located in different rooms of the healthcare facility then the GUI is usable to control functions of the first patient support apparatus but not the second patient support apparatus. In either case the GUI is operable to display the first data from the first patient support apparatus and the second data from the second patient support apparatus.

Additional patient support apparatuses may be communicatively coupled to the GUI of the first patient support apparatus via the bed data server. Accordingly the system may further include a third patient support apparatus communicatively coupled to the bed data server. The bed data server therefore may provide third data pertaining to the third patient support apparatus to the first patient support apparatus for display on the GUI in response to user inputs entered on the GUI of the first patient support apparatus. The GUI may display a field that is selectable to obtain a menu that lists designators for the second and third patient support apparatuses for selection by a user. For example the designators each may comprise a patient identifier and or a room location identifier.

Additional features which alone or in combination with any other feature s such as those listed above and those listed in the claims may comprise patentable subject matter and will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of various embodiments exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the embodiments as presently perceived.

A patient support apparatus such as illustrative hospital bed includes a patient support structure such as a frame that supports a surface or mattress as shown in . Thus according to this disclosure a bed frame a mattress or both are examples of things considered to be within the scope of the term patient support structure. However this disclosure is applicable to other types of patient support apparatuses and other patient support structures including other types of beds surgical tables examination tables stretchers and the like. As will be described below in further detail a graphical user interface GUI of bed is operable to view data or information from other beds and in some circumstances of some contemplated embodiments is operable to control features or functions of other beds .

Referring again to frame of bed includes a base an upper frame assembly and a lift system coupling upper frame assembly to base . Lift system is operable to raise lower and tilt upper frame assembly relative to base . Bed has a head end and a foot end . Hospital bed further includes a footboard at the foot end and a headboard at the head end . Illustrative bed includes a pair of push handles coupled to an upstanding portion of base at the head end of bed . Headboard is coupled to upstanding portion of base as well. Footboard is coupled to upper frame assembly . Base includes wheels or casters that roll along a floor not shown as bed is moved from one location to another. A set of foot pedals are coupled to base and are used to brake and release casters .

Illustrative hospital bed has four siderail assemblies coupled to upper frame assembly as shown in . The four siderail assemblies include a pair of head siderail assemblies sometimes referred to as head rails and a pair of foot siderail assemblies sometimes referred to as foot rails . Each of the siderail assemblies is movable between a raised position as shown in and a lowered position not shown but well known to those skilled in the art . Siderail assemblies are sometimes referred to herein as siderails . Each siderail includes a barrier panel and a linkage . Each linkage is coupled to the upper frame assembly and is configured to guide the barrier panel during movement of siderails between the respective raised and lowered positions. Barrier panel is maintained by the linkage in a substantially vertical orientation during movement of siderails between the respective raised and lowered positions.

Upper frame assembly includes a lift frame a weigh frame supported with respect to lift frame and a patient support deck . Patient support deck is carried by weigh frame and engages a bottom surface of mattress . Patient support deck includes a head section a seat section a thigh section and a foot section in the illustrative example as shown in and as shown diagrammatically in . Sections are each movable relative to weigh frame . For example head section pivotably raises and lowers relative to seat section whereas foot section pivotably raises and lowers relative to thigh section . Additionally thigh section articulates relative to seat section . Also in some embodiments foot section is extendable and retractable to change the overall length of foot section and therefore to change the overall length of deck . For example foot section includes a main portion and an extension in some embodiments as shown diagrammatically in .

In the illustrative embodiment seat section is fixed in position with respect to weigh frame as patient support deck moves between its various patient supporting positions including a horizontal position shown in to support the patient in a supine position for example and a chair position not shown to support the patient in a sitting up position. In other embodiments seat section also moves relative to weigh frame such as by pivoting and or translating. Of course in those embodiments in which seat section translates along upper frame the thigh and foot sections also translate along with seat section . As bed moves from the bed position to the chair position foot section lowers relative to thigh section and shortens in length due to retraction of the extension relative to main portion . As bed moves from the chair position to the bed position foot section raises relative to thigh section and increases in length due to extension of the extension relative to main portion . Thus in the chair position head section extends upwardly from weigh frame and foot section extends downwardly from thigh section .

As shown diagrammatically in bed includes a head motor or actuator coupled to head section a knee motor or actuator coupled to thigh section a foot motor or actuator coupled to foot section and a foot extension motor or actuator coupled to foot extension . Motors may include for example an electric motor of a linear actuator. In those embodiments in which seat section translates along upper frame as mentioned above a seat motor or actuator not shown is also provided. Head motor is operable to raise and lower head section knee motor is operable to articulate thigh section relative to seat section foot motor is operable to raise and lower foot section relative to thigh section and foot extension motor is operable to extend and retract extension of foot section relative to main portion of foot section .

In some embodiments bed includes a pneumatic system that controls inflation and deflation of various air bladders or cells of mattress . The pneumatic system is represented in as a single block but that block is intended to represent one or more air sources e.g. a fan a blower a compressor and associated valves manifolds air passages air lines or tubes pressure sensors and the like as well as the associated electric circuitry that are typically included in a pneumatic system for inflating and deflating air bladders of mattresses of hospital beds.

As also shown diagrammatically in lift system of bed includes one or more elevation system motors or actuators which in some embodiments comprise linear actuators with electric motors. Thus actuators are sometimes referred to herein as motors . Alternative actuators or motors contemplated by this disclosure include hydraulic cylinders and pneumatic cylinders for example. The motors of lift system are operable to raise lower and tilt upper frame assembly relative to base . In the illustrative embodiment one of motors is coupled to and acts upon a set of head end lift arms and another of motors is coupled to and acts upon a set of foot end lift arms to accomplish the raising lowering and tilting functions of upper frame relative to base . Guide links are coupled to base and to lift arms in the illustrative example as shown in . Lift system of bed is substantially similar to the lift system of the VERSACARE bed available from Hill Rom Company Inc. Other aspects of bed are also substantially similar to the VERSACARE bed and are described in more detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 658 680 6 611 979 6 691 346 6 957 461 and 7 296 312 each of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In the illustrative example bed has four foot pedals coupled to base as shown in . Foot pedal is used to raise upper frame assembly relative to base foot pedal is used to lower frame assembly relative to base foot pedal is used to raise head section relative to frame and foot pedal is used to lower head section relative to frame . In other embodiments foot pedals are omitted.

Each siderail includes a first user control panel coupled to the outward side of the associated barrier panel and each siderail includes a second user control panel coupled to the outward side of the associated barrier panel . Controls panels include various buttons that are used by a caregiver not shown to control associated functions of bed . For example control panel includes buttons that are used to operate head motor to raise and lower the head section buttons that are used to operate knee motor to raise and lower the thigh section and buttons that are used to operate motors to raise lower and tilt upper frame assembly relative to base . In the illustrative embodiment control panel includes buttons that are used to operate motor to raise and lower foot section and buttons that are used to operate motor to extend and retract foot extension relative to main portion . In some embodiments the buttons of control panels comprise membrane switches.

As shown diagrammatically in bed includes control circuitry that is electrically coupled to motors and to motors of lift system . Control circuitry is represented diagrammatically as a single block in but control circuitry in some embodiments comprises various circuit boards electronics modules and the like that are electrically and communicatively interconnected. Control circuitry includes one or more microprocessors or microcontrollers that execute software to perform the various bed control functions and algorithms described herein. Thus circuitry also includes memory for storing software variables calculated values and the like as is well known in the art.

As also shown diagrammatically in a user inputs block represents the various user inputs such as buttons of control panels and pedals for example that are used by the caregiver or patient to communicate input signals to control circuitry of bed to command the operation of the various motors of bed as well as commanding the operation of other functions of bed . Bed includes at least one graphical user input GUI or display screen coupled to a respective siderail as shown in . Display screen is coupled to control circuitry as shown diagrammatically in . In some embodiments two GUI s are provided and are coupled to respective siderails . Alternatively or additionally one or more GUI s are coupled to siderails and or to one or both of the headboard and footboard . Thus it is contemplated by this disclosure that a GUI may be coupled to any of barriers of bed . Alternatively or additionally GUI is provided on a hand held device such as a pod or pendant that communicates via a wired or wireless connection with control circuitry .

Control circuitry receives user input commands sometimes referred to herein as simply user inputs from GUI when display screen is activated. The user input commands control various functions of bed such as controlling the pneumatic system and therefore the surface functions of surface . In other embodiments surface is not controlled by GUI . In some embodiments the input commands entered on GUI also control the functions of one or more of motors but this need not be the case. In some embodiments input commands entered on the user interface also control functions of a scale system which is discussed in more detail below. Various examples of the various alternative or additional functions of bed that are controlled by GUI in various embodiments can be found in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2012 0089419 A1 2008 0235872 A1 and 2008 0172789 A1 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the present disclosure which shall control as to any inconsistencies.

In some embodiments control circuitry of bed communicates with a remote computer device via communication infrastructure such as an Ethernet of a healthcare facility in which bed is located and via communications links as shown diagrammatically in . Infrastructure may be operated according to for example the IEEE 802.3 wired Ethernet standard and or the IEEE 802.11 wireless Ethernet standard. Computer device is sometimes simply referred to as a computer or a server herein. Remote computer may be part of a bed data system for example. One example of a bed data system is shown and described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 487 400 which was filed Jun. 4 2012 which was titled System and Method of Bed Data Aggregation Normalization and Communication to Third Parties and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the present disclosure which shall control as to any inconsistencies. Alternatively or additionally it is within the scope of this disclosure for circuitry of bed to communicate with other computers such as those included as part of an electronic medical records EMR system a nurse call system a physician ordering system an admission discharge transfer ADT system or some other system used in a healthcare facility in other embodiments although this need not be the case. Ethernet in is illustrated diagrammatically and is intended to represent all of the hardware and software that comprises a network of a healthcare facility.

In the illustrative embodiment bed has a communication interface or port which provides bidirectional communication via link with infrastructure which in turn communicates bidirectionally with computer via link . Link is a wired communication link in some embodiments and is a wireless communications link in other embodiments. Thus communications link in some embodiments comprises a cable that connects bed to a wall mounted jack that is included as part of a bed interface unit BIU or a network interface unit NIU of the type shown and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 538 659 and 7 319 386 and in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2009 0217080 A1 2009 0212925 A1 and 2009 0212926 A1 each of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the present disclosure which shall control as to any inconsistencies. In other embodiments communications link comprises wireless signals sent between bed and a wireless interface unit or a wireless access point of the type shown and described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0210917 A1 which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the present disclosure which shall control as to any inconsistencies. Thus communications link comprises one or more wired links and or wireless links as well according to this disclosure.

As also shown diagrammatically in a plurality of other hospital beds are also coupled to communication infrastructure via respective communications links some or all of which may be wired links and some or all of which may be wireless links . As mentioned previously GUI is operable to display data or information from other beds and or to control features or functions of other beds in some instances. Accordingly if any of beds do not have a GUI the bed that does have GUI may still be used to display information pertaining to the other beds .

With regard to using GUI of one bed to control features or functions of other beds in some embodiments a distinction is made between controlling active features or functions and passive features or functions of any particular bed . Active features or functions are those in which one portion of bed moves relative to another portion of bed . Thus deck articulation functions as well as raising lowering or tilting the upper frame relative to the base frame are examples of active functions or features. Accordingly for active features GUI of one bed is used to control for example one or more of motors of another bed . On the other hand passive features or functions include for example controlling a PPM system of bed e.g. enabling or disabling the PPM system changing the mode of operation of the PPM system changing the volume of a local alarm of the PPM system etc. or controlling a weigh scale system of bed . Thus the passive features or functions are typically associated with nonmoving portions of bed .

According to one embodiment contemplated by this disclosure only active features or functions of beds that are within a line of sight of a caregiver from a particular bed are able to be controlled by GUI of that particular bed . Such beds may for example be located in the same room of a healthcare facility. The GUI of the particular bed is disabled or blocked from being able to control active features or functions of beds that are not in the caregiver s line of sight e.g. beds located in other rooms . The remote computer therefore serves as an administration computer that is operated or programmed in a manner that determines the various beds for which the active features or functions may be controlled by the particular GUI of bed . This is a safety feature that prevents a caregiver from moving portions of any of beds that cannot be seen by the caregiver when using GUI of bed . With regard to passive features or functions in some embodiments any bed having a GUI may be used to control all of the passive features or functions of other beds that are communicatively coupled together via infrastructure .

Referring now to a home screen of bed that appears on GUI in response to GUI being awakened out of a non interaction mode or screen saver mode includes a menu of icons for navigating to other screens. With regard to awakening GUI from the non interaction mode see U.S. application Ser. No. 13 360 846 which was filed Jan. 30 2012 which is titled Graphical Caregiver Interface with Swipe to Unlock Feature and which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the present disclosure which shall control as to any inconsistencies. Menu includes a home icon sometimes referred to herein as a button a scale icon a mattress set up icon a therapy control icon and a preference icon . Because home screen is being shown on GUI the corresponding home icon is highlighted in as indicated by the cross hatching on icon .

Icons are selectable by the user to navigate to one or more screens associated with those icons to gain access to bed data and to control features or functions of bed . For example in some embodiments selection of icon results in a scale control screen being displayed on GUI and that has one or more icons to permit the user to do one or more of the following set a tare weight for the scale system select whether pounds lb or kilograms kg are to be the units of measure for the patient s weight enter data for use in calculation of the patient s BMI or to take a weight reading. Selection of icon results in a screen that permits the user to control surface operations such as for example maximum inflate turn assist left turn assist right and normal mode. Selection of icon results in the user being able to navigate to screens to control therapy functions of mattress such as for example continuous lateral rotation therapy alternating pressure therapy percussion and or vibration therapy and low air loss or microclimate management functions. Selection of icon results in one or more screens that indicate the software version for the bed and that permits the user to change the language setting set the date and time and set other GUI configuration parameters. Selection of icon also provides access to bed maintenance features such as scale calibration sensor calibration and diagnostic trouble codes which involves reading and displaying failure codes from various electronics boards of beds .

A down arrow icon appears at the bottom of menu beneath icon and is selected to scroll downwardly to reveal other icons not shown of menu . An up arrow icon appears near the top of menu just beneath the home icon and is selected to scroll upwardly to reveal additional icons not shown of menu . Screen also has a bed icon or indicia that includes head angle data as shown in . In the illustrative example head angle data indicates that the head section of bed has been raised by 35 . In some embodiment the position of the siderails of bed icon match the position of actual siderails of bed . Thus if one of siderails is lowered then icon will show the corresponding siderail in a lowered position on home screen .

Screen also has informational icons including a bed low icon that appears beneath icon and is green in color when the upper frame assembly of bed is in its lowermost position relative to base and is yellow in color when the upper frame assembly of bed is not in its lowermost position relate to base . Another informational icon is a scale status icon that indicates the scale status whether the scale system of bed needs to be zeroed or the date that the scale system was zeroed. A further information icon is a surface status icon that indicates the state of operation of the surface such as normal maximum inflate left turn assist right turn assist rotation left rotation center rotation right percussion vibration OPTIREST mode e.g. a mode in which zones of the mattress such as the head seat thigh and foot zones are sequentially reduced in pressure one zone at a time to provide a wave effect for the patient seat deflate and sleep mode. The final informational icon is a Trend icon that indicates whether the upper frame assembly of bed is in a flat or horizontal position a Trendelenburg position or a reverse Trendelenburg position.

Screen further has a lock icon that is selected to dim the GUI and lock the GUI from use in a non interaction mode a help icon which is selected to obtain help on GUI regarding the operation of bed and a remote icon or button which is selected to initiate the process of obtaining data and control icons on GUI relating to other beds . Icon is selected for example when the caregiver intends to leave bed and go elsewhere or when the caregiver intends to lean over the siderail to which GUI is coupled so that inadvertent contact with GUI will not result in inadvertent button selections.

Referring now to a scale history screen is shown. Screen has many of the same icons as screen and therefore like reference numbers are used to denote the like icons and the descriptions of same are not repeated. Screen has a scale history graph with past data points and a most recent data point . In the example of an information bar displays information about the most recent data point including showing that the patient weight is 101.0 lb and was taken at 2 14 pm on May 15 2012. In the illustrative example body mass index BMI data is not available. A right arrow icon and a left arrow icon are situated at the opposite ends of information bar and are used to scroll to other data points of the weight history graph .

The patient s initial weight is indicated on graph with a solid square as explained by line of text appearing on screen beneath graph and the past data points are indicated with a solid dot or circle. The most recent data point is indicated on graph with a bull s eye image in the illustrative example because that is the data point having its associated information shown in bar . Accordingly if left arrow icon were to be selected then the data point just to the left of the most recent data point would change to the bull s eye image and the most recent data point would become a solid dot.

Screen also has a Recommended Position radio button and a Not Recommended Position radio button beneath graph as also shown in . For each data point having information shown in bar one or the other of radio buttons is filled in to indicate whether the bed was radio button or was not radio button in a recommended position when the patient weight associated with the data point was taken. In the illustrative example radio button is filled in to indicate that bed was in a recommended position when the weight of the patient associated with the most recent data point was taken.

Screen also has a back button or icon that is selected when the user wishes to return to a previous screen not shown associated with the weigh scale system. The previous screen may be for example a screen used to do one or more of the following set a tare weight for the scale system select whether pounds lb or kilograms kg are to be the units of measure for the patient s weight enter data for use in calculation of the patient s BMI or to take a weight reading. Examples of screens having these sorts of weigh scale system functions are included in various ones of the documents already incorporated herein by reference.

Referring now to a Remote Bed Patient menu screen appears on GUI in response to the user selecting the remote icon at any time on any of the various screens that appear on GUI having icon such as home screen of or scale history screen of . Screen has a list of the room numbers and or patient names that define fields or areas on screen that can be selected to obtain data or information pertaining to the bed associated with the room or patient of the selected field and or to control features and functions of the bed associated with the room or patient of the selected field .

Screen also has a Scroll Down One Page button or icon a Scroll Up One Page button or icon and a Cancel button or icon as shown in . Buttons are selected to scroll down or up as the case may be the list to reveal additional room numbers and or patient names for which information and or controls of additional beds can be selected for display on GUI of bed . Button is selected if the user wishes to return to the previous screen on which the user had previously selected the Remote button .

In response to the user selecting one of fields the resulting graphics that appear on GUI of bed are those pertaining to the bed associated with the selected field and correspond to the same graphics that were previously shown on screen at the time the user initially selected remote button . To illustrate this point assuming that the user was viewing screen of at the time of selecting button and assuming the user selected the first field shown in list of screen of i.e. the field indicating Room 211A George Washington then a proxy screen appears on GUI of bed with a patient weight history graph having past weight data points and a most recent weight data point for the patient on the bed associated with the room of the selected field as shown in . The other icons appearing on proxy screen represent the same information data feature or function as the case may be as icons of screen discussed above except of course they pertain to bed and not bed .

In order to visually indicate to the user that the graphics displayed on GUI pertains to one of beds and not bed a colored border appears around the periphery of the display screen of GUI as shown in . In one embodiment the colored border is pink which is indicated in using vertical cross hatching. However it is within the scope of this disclosure for any suitable color to be used for border although it will be appreciated that it is beneficial if the color used for border is in stark contrast to other colors appearing on the screen and particularly in stark contrast to the background color of the screen. Screen in the illustrative example also has a line of text in the top portion of border that indicates the room number of the bed to which the displayed graphics pertain. A close icon appears in the upper right hand corner of screen within border and is selected when the user no longer wishes to view data or have control over bed .

In the illustrative example screen does not have any icons or buttons that would permit the user to navigate to other screens having information and controls of other types for bed . Specifically screen does not have any icons corresponding to icons of screen . Thus to get to another screen of bed the user closes screen using close icon then navigates to another screen pertaining to bed then selects the remote icon of that screen and the particular field on screen associated with bed to see the new screen pertaining to bed . In other embodiments screen has icons like icons of screen that permits the user to navigate from screen to screen pertaining to bed . In such embodiments border remains displayed on GUI so the user is constantly reminded that the screens being viewed pertains to one of beds and not bed .

While weight history screens of beds respectively are used in the present disclosure to illustrate the basic concept of how GUI of bed is used as a proxy for information and or controls of any of beds networked to bed via infrastructure and communications links it will be appreciated that it is within the scope of this disclosure for many other screen types having all sorts of bed data and bed functionality pertaining to bed to be displayed on GUI of bed in a similar manner. Accordingly it is contemplated by this disclosure that any and all of the screens shown in the various references already incorporated by reference herein and particularly those shown in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2012 0089419 A1 2008 0235872 A1 and 2008 0172789 A1 could be modified to have a remote button or icon that cooperates with control circuitry of bed in the same manner and achieve the same results as described herein with regard to the representative example of .

In response to the user selecting remote icon control circuitry stores in memory the screen type that was being displayed on GUI at that time which screen type correlates to a set of particular graphical elements representing bed functions and data that appear on that particular screen type. In response to the user thereafter selecting one of fields on screen control circuitry then sends a message or query to remote computer or server requesting the set of needed data and any other needed information pertaining to the bed associated with the selected field . Computer responds with the requested data and information which is stored in memory for use in creating the proxy screen on bed pertaining to bed .

In response to user inputs being selected on GUI of bed to control bed control messages are transmitted from control circuitry of bed to the appropriate bed via interface communication infrastructure and communications links . The control messages sent from bed to the appropriate bed are also communicated to remote computer in some embodiments but this need not be the case. Acknowledgement messages are transmitted from bed to bed after receiving a control message in some embodiments.

It is contemplated by this disclosure that when GUI is being used as a proxy to display graphics pertaining to bed various alarms that occur on bed are shown on GUI of bed . Thus in some embodiments an alarm message that is sent from bed to remote computer is in turn forwarded to bed by computer . To accomplish that computer stores in its memory information regarding which bed is having its information viewed on GUI of bed . Alternatively alarm messages from bed are transmitted to bed without involving remote computer . In such embodiments bed stores in its memory information regarding which bed is being used as a proxy to view information pertaining to the particular bed and then any alarm messages are addressed to bed . Acknowledgement of alarm messages by bed to bed and or remote computer is contemplated by this disclosure.

While GUI is mounted directly to bed in the illustrative example a logical extension of the present disclosure is to mount GUI to a wall or other structure that is near bed but that is not otherwise part of bed . For example GUI is mounted to an architectural structure such as a headwall unit bed locator unit wall supported arm ceiling supported arm service chase column and so forth in some embodiments. Such a wall mounted or structure mounted GUI then communicates with control circuitry of bed via a suitable communication interface or port such as one that is similar to interface for example. Thus according to this disclosure the wall mounted or structure mounted GUI communicates with control circuitry of bed via a wired or wireless communication link. In such embodiments GUI operates in the same manner as described above to obtain data pertaining to other beds and to control features or functions of other beds .

Although certain illustrative embodiments have been described in detail above many embodiments variations and modifications are possible that are still within the scope and spirit of this disclosure as described herein and as defined in the following claims.

