---

title: System for delivering and confirming receipt of notification messages across different notification media
abstract: The system for delivering and confirming receipt of notification messages across different notification media comprises a processor. The processor is configured to: receive an indication of a new notification handle on a new notification channel from a content provider; use a mapping and the universal notification channel to provide the new notification handle to one or more platform notification services, wherein the new notification handle is sent to each of the one or more platform notification services through a communication module specific to that notification service; and for each user registered to the notification channel: in the event that a notification handle acknowledgement is received: add an indication that the user acknowledged the message to an acknowledgement database; and in the event that a notification handle acknowledgement is not received: provide the notification handle to the user again. A memory is coupled to the processor and configured to store instructions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08923823&OS=08923823&RS=08923823
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08923823
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120628
---
Many systems exist for delivery of notification messages. They are useful for both business applications e.g. delivering updates on a software bug tracking system delivering stock quotes delivering appointment reminders and consumer applications e.g. delivering news updates delivering sports results delivering event reminders . In the past systems delivered reminders either via a push system e.g. simple mail transfer protocol SMTP email transfer short message service SMS or a user retrieval based system e.g. feeds using resource description framework site summary RSS or Atom format for web feeds . Delivering messages in either of these ways is relatively straightforward a content provider for a push system needs to maintain a user list and deliver the message to all users a content provider for a user retrieval system need only publish the messages in a predetermined location using a predetermined format. Modern users demand messages delivered to their mobile smart phones. Different smart phone manufacturers each provide a notification delivery service for their branded phones each notification delivery service operating using different protocols and different message types and often provided as a service by the phone manufacturers or phone operating system manufacturers themselves.

Some systems for delivery of notification messages rather than working with relatively trivial notifications e.g. sports results activity reminders etc. deal primarily with crucial notifications e.g. corporate meeting reminders network system administrator emergency messages etc. that must be guaranteed to arrive.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

A system for delivering and confirming receipt of notification messages across different notification media is disclosed. The system for delivering and confirming receipt of notification messages across different notification media comprises a processor and a memory. The processor is configured to receive an indication of a new notification handle on a new notification channel from a content provider use a mapping and the universal notification channel to provide the new notification handle to one or more platform notification services wherein the new notification handle is sent to each of the one or more platform notification services through a communication module specific to that notification service and for each user registered to the notification channel in the event that a notification handle acknowledgement is received add an indication that the user acknowledged the message to an acknowledgement database and in the event that a notification handle acknowledgement is not received provide the notification handle to the user again. The memory is coupled to the processor and configured to store instructions for the processor.

In some embodiments a system for delivering and confirming receipt of notification messages across different notification media delivers notification messages to a set of users. In some embodiments the set of users comprises a set of users using smart phones different subsets of the set of smart phones comprising smart phones using different operating systems e.g. Apple iPhones Google Android phones RIM Blackberry phones Windows Phone phones etc. . Each operating system manufacturer maintains a platform notification service specific to the operating system e.g. Apple maintains an iPhone specific platform notification service Google maintains an Android specific platform notification service . Each platform notification service can create a new platform notification channel add subscribers to the platform notification channel and deliver messages to the subscribers on the platform notification channel. A system for delivering notification messages across different notification media e.g. a universal notification service receives a request from a content provider to create a new universal notification channel across different notification media. The universal notification service requests creation of a new platform notification channel on each platform notification service and maintains a mapping table linking the universal notification channel to the platform notification channels created on each platform notification service. It then provides the set of platform notification channel identifiers to the content provider so the content provider can advertise them to users. When the content provider wishes to deliver a new content item it provides the content item to the universal notification service which uses the mapping table to deliver it to each platform notification service. The platform notification services then deliver the messages to subscribed users of the platform notification channels. In some embodiments the messages delivered to subscribed users of the platform notification channels are not complete messages but indications of messages if a user receives an indication of a message and is interested in retrieving the complete message he may follow an included link to retrieve the complete message from the content provider.

In some embodiments the system for delivering and confirming receipt of notification messages across different notification media additionally comprises an acknowledgement database. In some embodiments the acknowledgement database includes an entry e.g. a column for each user of each notification channel and an entry e.g. a row for each notification sent. In some embodiments the database would have rows for users and notifications and another row referencing those two by identifiers. The row referencing the two others using identifiers also would indicate whether message x has or hasn t been delivered to user y. User software is configured to send an acknowledgement to the universal notification service upon receiving a notification. Each time the universal notification service receives an acknowledgement it makes an indication into the acknowledgement database keeping track of which notifications have been received by which users. At periodic intervals e.g. once an hour once a day etc. the universal notification service checks the acknowledgement database for notifications where no corresponding acknowledgement has been received e.g. indicating that the notification has not been received by the user . Any notice for which a corresponding acknowledgement has not been received is then resent to the user.

In some embodiments the new notification handle is sent to one of the one or more platform notification services through the communication module corresponding to the one of the one or more platform notification services. In some embodiments the universal notification channel is associated with a subscription request. In some embodiments a platform notification channel identifier corresponds to the universal notification channel. In some embodiments the notification handle is used to retrieve a full notification associated with the notification handle wherein the full notification is sourced from the content provider. In various embodiments the full notification is achieved using a link the full notification is achieved using an application the full notification is achieve using a web site or any other appropriate want to achieve the notification. In some embodiments the platform notification service of the one or more platform notification services comprises a smart phone operating system developer. In various embodiments smart phone operating system developer comprises an Apple push notification service an Android push notification service a Windows Phone push notification service a Blackberry push notification service or any other appropriate service. In some embodiments the mapping uses an identifier for the new universal notification channel. In some embodiments the acknowledgement database stores information regarding the notification handle. In some embodiments the information regarding the notification handle is stored associated with a user. In some embodiments the information regarding the notification handle includes a fail indication indicating that the notification handle acknowledgement was not received. In some embodiments the information regarding the notification handle includes a plurality of fail indications indicating that a plurality of notification handle acknowledgements were not received.

In some embodiments the system is capable of determining whether messages have been received by each user and resending messages in the event they have not been received.

When notification service user identifies a universal notification channel that he wishes to subscribe to e.g. on the website of content provider on a service provided by platform notification service etc. the user is directed both to an interface to register with the appropriate platform notification service and also to an interface to register with universal notification service . When notification service user registers with universal notification service an identifier corresponding to notification service user e.g. a serial number network address SIM card number etc. is added to an acknowledgement database stored by universal notification service . In some embodiments when notification service user indicates to subscribe to a universal notification channel user information is automatically sent to universal notification service automatically registering the user with universal notification service .

Software used by notification service user is configured such that when notification service user receives a notification e.g. from a platform notification service it immediately responds by sending an acknowledgement to universal notification service . Each time universal notification service delivers a notification e.g. via platform notification service platform notification service and platform notification service it expects to receive acknowledgements from each notification service user that are then recorded in the acknowledgement database. At periodic intervals e.g. once an hour once a day etc. universal notification service checks the acknowledgement database for notifications where no corresponding acknowledgement has been received e.g. indicating that the notification has not been received by the user . Any notice for which a corresponding acknowledgement has not been received is then resent by universal notification service to the appropriate notification service user.

In some embodiments different networks are used for different parts of the system for example a message is sent to the service which may contact a SMS gateway that will then send actual notification to users via a global system for mobile communications GSM network. On the other hand separate networks delivery networks connect the users to the platform services.

When content provider requests a new universal notification channel from universal notification service controller receives the request generates a universal notification channel ID and in turn requests platform notification channels from each of platform notification service platform notification service and platform notification service via platform notification service plugin platform notification service plugin and platform notification service plugin respectively. Each platform notification service creates the new platform notification channel and returns the platform notification channel ID to universal notification service . Controller receives the platform notification channel IDs via the platform notification service plugins and creates a mapping from the universal notification channel ID to the received platform notification channel IDs. The mapping is stored in mapping table allowing controller to deliver a new notification handle to the appropriate platform notification channels for a given universal notification channel. Controller additionally delivers the set of platform notification channel IDs to content provider allowing content provider to advertise the platform notification channel IDs to notification system users allowing the notification system user to discover a notification channel on a content provider system e.g. on a content provider website and register for the appropriate platform notification channel on the appropriate platform notification service.

In some embodiments when a notification service user registers with universal notification service to receive notifications on a universal notification channel an entry corresponding to the user is added to acknowledgement database . Each time the notification service user receives a notification on the universal notification channel e.g. via a platform notification channel the user sends an acknowledgement to universal notification service . When the acknowledgement is received the associated user ID and acknowledgement ID are looked up in acknowledgement database and a corresponding indication is added enabling controller to track which notifications have been acknowledged by which users. In some embodiments acknowledgments comprising a user ID and an acknowledgment ID are received from content provider . In some embodiments when content provider delivers an acknowledgement to universal notification service in response to receiving a request for a notification based on a new notification handle.

In some embodiments delivery is unreliable and there s no feedback e.g. using SMS . In this case a link can be sent that is specific to the user the user then activates that link so that the content provider knows that the user has read the message the content provider can then update the notification column in the notification service. This enables acknowledgement in the case that a platform notification channel does not provide built in acknowledgement features.

In some embodiments there would be much more data managed in such a table for example all kind of housekeeping stuff. In some embodiments the identifier spaces for the various platforms are different. In some embodiments the channels would not need to be specific for just a client. In various embodiments a channel would be open to various clients or even public so that the user population addressed through that channel could be addressed by more than just one client or any other appropriate configuration for the channel.

In some embodiments acknowledgement database comprises the whole of the acknowledgement database and tracks all notifications on all universal notification channels for the universal notification service. When acknowledgement database is configured in this way a third entry is possible in each cell. All users and all notifications are present in this database but not all notifications are intended to reach all users e.g. some users are not registered for all universal notification channels. When a user is not registered for a universal notification channel an indication is made to acknowledgement database e.g. an N A that the user did not receive the notification but that it should not be resent to the user.

In some embodiments acknowledgement database records number of attempts to provide a message to a user e.g. platform serial QJDI94K platform serial PXJP72B platform serial MNFK53A etc. . For example acknowledgement database stores an entry indicating a number of attempts to convey a message e.g. an integer indicating attempts .

In some embodiments the database would have rows for users rows for notifications and rows referencing between the users and the notifications by identifiers. The row referencing two others using identifiers would indicate that message x referenced in row r x has or hasn t been delivered to user y referenced in row y r.

In a new platform notification channel is created and a new notification channel identifier is returned. For example a new notification channel is created by each of the platform notification services and the new notification channel identifiers are returned to the universal notification service. The new platform notification channels each correspond to a platform specific version of the universal notification channel e.g. the universal notification channel requested in . In a mapping is created from the new universal notification channel to the new platform notification channel identifiers. For example a mapping is created by the universal notification service. In some embodiments a mapping from the new universal notification channel to the new platform notification channel identifiers comprises a correspondence between a new universal notification channel identifier and the new platform notification channel identifiers. In the new mapping entry is added to a mapping table. For example the new mapping is added to the mapping table by the universal notification service. In some embodiments adding the new mapping to the mapping table allows the universal notification service to retrieve the new platform notification channel identifiers given the new universal notification channel. In new platform notification channel identifiers are sent. For example the new platform notification channel identifiers are sent from the universal notification service to the content provider. In new platform notification channel identifiers are associated with the content channel. For example new platform notification channel identifiers are associated with the content channel by the content provider. In some embodiments the content channel comprises the content channel created in . In some embodiments associating the new platform notification channel identifiers with the content channel allows the content provider to redirect a user interested in subscribing to the content channel to the appropriate platform notification channel to receive the notifications on his mobile device. In a new table is added to the acknowledgement database. For example a new table is added to the acknowledgement database by the universal notification service. In some embodiments the new table of the acknowledgement database comprises a table of the acknowledgment database associated with the new universal notification channel. In some embodiments acknowledgments of notifications delivered on the new notification channel are stored in the new table added to the acknowledgement database.

In a next user is selected. For example a next user is selected from the acknowledgement database by the universal notification service. In some embodiments the next user comprises the first user. In it is determined whether the user has confirmed acknowledged the notification handle. For example the universal notification service determines whether the selected user has acknowledged the notification handle by examining the acknowledgement database. If it is determined that the user has not acknowledged the notification handle control passes to . In the notification handle is resent. For example the notification handle is resent by the universal notification service to the user via a platform notification service. Control then passes to . If it is determined that the user has acknowledged the notification handle control passes to directly to . In it is determined whether there are more users. For example the universal notification service determines whether there are more users in the acknowledgement database. If it is determined that there are more users in the acknowledgement database control passes to . If it is determined that there are no more users in the acknowledgement database the process ends. In some embodiments through are repeated until all users have confirmed receipt. In some embodiments the process waits an appropriate amount of time between the repeats of through . In various embodiments an appropriate amount of time comprises one minute one hour one day or any other appropriate amount of time.

In some embodiments it is determined whether a maximum number of notifications sent is reached if it is determined whether the maximum number of notification sent is reached the notification is not resent and a fail notification is noted in the database e.g. the maximum number of tries is stored associated with the message .

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

