---

title: Method, system, and device for selecting and displaying information on a mobile digital display device
abstract: A method, system, and device for selecting and displaying information on a mobile digital display device includes determining preference criteria for local viewers of the mobile digital information display device, selecting digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device as a function of the preference criteria, and displaying the selected information on a display of the mobile digital information device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483970&OS=09483970&RS=09483970
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09483970
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
Billboards are used to display information such advertisements notifications directions and the like to nearby individuals of the local public. The information displayed on the billboards is static and typically embodied as physical print on a substrate medium such as a paper plastic or canvas. Billboards may be immobile such as a highway billboard or mobile. Mobile billboards are generally attached to a mobile structure such as a vehicle or are moved about by individuals e.g. a wearable billboard . Regardless the information displayed on such mobile billboards remains static similar to a fixed immobile billboard regardless of the location or movement of the billboard itself.

Digital signs are also used to display information. Unlike billboards the information displayed by typical digital signs may change over time. For example a digital sign may be configured to display certain information one day and different information on a different day. Many digital signs are immobile and are used to display various information to the general public in the vicinity of the digital sign or as they pass by the digital sign e.g. a digital highway sign configured to display traffic information a crosswalk digital sign etc. .

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way or example in the drawing and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a transitory or non transitory machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks electrical signals and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Referring now to in one embodiment a system for selecting and displaying digital information includes a mobile digital information display device configured to display digital information to local viewers while in motion e.g. while being moved from one location to another as well as while stationary. Such digital information may be embodied as for example advertisements notifications directions emergency instructions and or other information capable of being displayed on a digital display. The particular digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device at a particular time is selected based on determined preference criteria of the local viewers i.e. the inferred or local viewers .

The preference criteria may include any type of information about the local viewers as individuals or as a group that may be used to select or otherwise determine which data to display on the mobile digital information display device. For example the preference criteria may be indicative of preferences of the local viewer s such as product preferences purchasing history interests and or other likes dislikes. Additionally the preference criteria may be indicative of characteristics of the local viewer s such as gender age or nationality. Yet further the preference criteria may be indicative of a context of the viewer s such as whether the local viewer is standing or walking shopping or attending a meeting or event and or other criteria data that is indicative of how receptive the local viewer is to watching the mobile digital information display which may for example affect the degree to which the content displayed on the digital mobile information display device is tailored to that local viewer s preferences .

It should be appreciated that because the display device is mobile the local population of viewers change over time. As such in one embodiment the preference criteria of the local viewers is inferred based on the context data of the mobile digital information display device . To do so the context data is compared to demographic data to determine the preference criteria for the viewers based on the likely local demographics. The context data of the mobile digital information display device may be embodied as any type of data that defines a condition or aspect of the display device . For example the context data may include data indicative of a current or future e.g. predicted location of the display device data indicative of an environmental condition e.g. whether it is raining snowing foggy etc. of the current or future location of the display device data indicative of the speed or direction of travel e.g. navigation data of the display device data indicative of the time of day the date or time of year and or any other data indicative of the context of the display device . Such context data may be obtained using sensors of the display device itself or from other remote sources. Additionally in some embodiments as discussed in more detail below the preference criteria may be obtained directly from mobile computing devices of the people within the vicinity of the display device .

The digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device is selected based on the determined preference criteria. To do so the preference criteria may be compared to characteristics of the digital information. For example if the preference criteria indicate that the local demographics is composed of a large population of non native speakers an advertisement in the native language of the local population may be selected. Additionally in some embodiments the context data of the display device may be compared to the characteristics of the digital information to narrow further the selection process. For example if the context data indicates that the display device is temporarily stationary digital information having a more active presentation e.g. moving graphics may be selected. Conversely if the context data indicates that the display device is in motion digital information having a more static presentation may be selected.

The mobile digital information display device may be embodied as any type of mobile computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. In the illustrative embodiment the display device is attached or secured to a vehicle . However in other embodiments the mobile digital information display device may be attached to other mobile structures or otherwise movable by one or more individuals. For example in some embodiments the mobile digital information display device may be embodied as a sandwich sign carried by a person as electronic clothing worn by a person or the like. Alternatively the mobile digital information display device may be embodied as a mobile computer such as a smart phone a computing tablet a laptop computer or the like.

In the illustrative embodiment of the mobile digital information display device includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory communication circuitry data storage a digital information display engine a front display and a rear display and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard of the mobile digital information display device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the mobile digital information display device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a mobile computing device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the mobile digital information display device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the mobile digital information display device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the mobile digital information display device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the mobile digital information display device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In such embodiments the firmware device of the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory device for storing Basic Input Output System BIOS data and or instructions and or other information e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the mobile digital information display device . However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the mobile digital information display device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the mobile digital information display device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of point to point links wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the mobile digital information display device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the mobile digital information display device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The communication circuitry of the mobile digital information display device may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the mobile digital information display device and other remote computing devices such as a digital information data server and one more mobile computing devices as discussed below. The communication circuitry may be configured to use any one or more communication protocols to communicate with such remote computing devices such as for example a wireless local area network communication protocol e.g. Wi Fi a wireless wide area network communication protocol e.g. WiMAX a cellular communication protocol e.g. Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA a mobile satellite communication protocol and or other communication protocols.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In the illustrative embodiment the data storage includes a preference database and an information database . The preference database stores data usable by the digital information display engine to determine preference criteria for local viewers based on context data. For example in some embodiments the preference database may include demographic data location data event data and or other data that may be used with the context data to determine preference criteria for the inferred and or actual viewers of the display device . The information database includes the digital information e.g. advertisements notices etc. that may be selected for display on the display device . In some embodiments the digital information is stored in the information database in association with characteristic data that defines particular characteristics of the digital information such as for example the language of the digital information whether the digital information has an active or static presentation the subject matter type or length the digital information and so forth.

The digital information display engine may be embodied as software firmware and associated hardware devices and logic configured to collect and analyze the context data of the mobile digital information display device determine preference criteria for the local viewers population and select digital information to display on the display device . Illustratively the digital information display engine includes a preference criteria analysis module or logic and an information selection module or logic . The preference criteria analysis module is configured to collect or obtain context data and or additional data and determine preference criteria for a local population i.e. the estimated predicted or otherwise inferred viewing audience of the display device as a function of the context data. To do so the preference criteria analysis module may compare the obtained context data of the display device to demographic location or other data stored in the preference database to generate or determine the preference criteria. For example if the context data identifies a current location of the display device the preference criteria analysis module may compare the location to demographic data stored in the preference database and retrieve pre established preference criteria for the local demographic population. Alternatively as discussed below the preference criteria analysis module may receive preference criteria or data from which such preference criteria may be determined from other remote devices or sources.

The information selection module selects the digital information to be displayed from the information database based on the preference criteria determined by the preference criteria analysis module . To do so as discussed above the information selection module may compare the preference criteria to the pre determined characteristics of the digital information. Additionally in some embodiments the information selection module may also use context data to select or otherwise refine the selection of the digital information as discussed above.

The digital information display engine controls the front display and the rear display to display the selected digital information thereon. In some embodiments the front display may be embodied as a front facing display e.g. facing toward the front of the vehicle . In such embodiments as discussed in more detail below the digital information display engine may display the selected digital information or portions thereof e.g. text in a reverse or backward orientation so that drivers viewing the front display through a rear view mirror are able to discern the digital information properly. Although the illustrative mobile digital information display device includes two displays it should be appreciated that the display device may include a single display or more than two displays in other embodiments. Additionally the displays may be embodied as any type of display capable of display digital information such as a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display a plasma display a cathode ray tube CRT display or other type of display device.

In some embodiments the mobile digital information display device may also include one or more sensors configured to generate sensor data indicative of a context of the display device or from which context of the display device may be determined. For example the sensors may include one or more condition sensors configured to generate sensor data indicative of a condition of the display device or of the vehicle to which the display device is secured such as for example whether the display device is in motion the speed at which the display device is moving the direction of travel and or the like. The sensors may also include one or more environment sensors configured to generate sensor data indicative of a condition of the local environment of the display device such as for example whether it is raining snowing foggy sunny and or the like. Further the sensors may include one or more location sensors configured to generate sensor data indicative of the current location or predicted location e.g. predicted based on navigation data speed direction of travel etc. of the display device . Of course the sensors may include other types of sensors and or devices to generate data from which a context of the display device may be determined. For example in some embodiments the sensors may include sensors or other devices to generate data indicative of the current time day season of the year or other temporal data.

In some embodiments the mobile digital information display device may also include one or more peripheral devices . Such peripheral devices may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example in some embodiments the peripheral devices may include a driver input device which is usable by a driver of the vehicle to enter data such as context data that may be used by the digital information display engine to select the digital information for display. For example the driver input device may be embodied as a touch screen display that allows the driver to enter selectively data to be considered.

As discussed above in some embodiments the system may include the digital information data server . The digital information data server may be communicatively coupled to the mobile digital information display device via a network . The digital information data server may be embodied as any type of data server capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the digital information data server may include devices and structures commonly found in data servers such as processors memory and peripheral devices which are not illustrated in for clarity of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the data server includes a data storage including a preference database and an information database . The preference database may be substantially similar to and include substantially similar data as the preference database of the display device . Similarly the information database may be substantially similar to and include substantially similar data as the information database of the display device . In such embodiments the digital information data server may operate as a remote data server from which the mobile digital information display device may retrieve additional or updated demographic preference data and or digital information. In this way the mobile digital information display device need not store all of the available demographic preference data and or digital information. Rather the display device may retrieve such data from the digital information data server as needed or as periodic updates. For example only digital information for a particular city may be stored locally on the mobile digital information display device . However should the display device move to another city the display device may retrieve updated digital information for the new city from the digital information data server .

The network may be embodied as any number of various wireless data networks and associated wired networks. For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN and or a publicly accessible global network such as the Internet. As such the network may include any number of additional devices such as additional computers routers and switches to facilitate communications between the mobile digital information display device and the digital information data server .

Further as discussed above the system may include one or more mobile computing devices in some embodiments. The mobile computing device may be operated by individuals within the vicinity e.g. within a particular communication range of the mobile digital information display device . Of course as the display device moves about the available mobile computing device may change. As discussed in more detail below the mobile digital information display device may be configured to identify the available mobile computing devices with the vicinity of the display device and establish communications with such mobile computing devices . To do so in some embodiments the mobile digital information display device may establish an network with one or more of the mobile computing device . Alternatively the mobile digital information display device may use an existing network for example a cellular network local WiFi hotspot or the Internet to establish communication with the mobile computing device .

Once communication with the mobile computing devices is established the mobile digital information display device may request preference criteria from the mobile computing devices . However in some embodiments the availability and type of preference criteria of the mobile computing device may be controlled and managed by a privacy management module local to the mobile computing device . For example the mobile computing device may compare the request for preference criteria to a local privacy policy and make a determination whether to provide the requested preference criteria or deny the request. As discussed above the preference criteria may be embodied as any type of data indicative of a preference state nature or other context of a user or from which a preference of the user may be determined of the mobile computing device . For example the preference criteria may be embodied as or otherwise include data indicative of the gender age profession like dislikes purchase history context and or other data related to the user of the mobile computing device .

As discussed above the mobile digital information display device is configured to determine preference criteria of inferred local viewers and display digital information selected based on such preference criteria. To do so the mobile digital information display device may execute a method for selecting digital information for display as shown in . The method begins with block in which the preference criteria analysis module of the display device determines preference criteria of the likely local viewers. To do so in one embodiment the preference criteria analysis module may obtain or otherwise determine context data of the mobile digital information display device in block . Such context data may be obtained from any one or more sources. For example in some embodiments the preference criteria analysis module may receive sensor data from one or more of the sensors e.g. the condition sensors the environment sensors and the location sensor s and or other remote devices. As discussed above the context data may be embodied as any type of data that defines a condition or aspect of the display device . Additionally in some embodiments the preference criteria analysis module may receive input data from the operator of the display device e.g. the driver of the vehicle in block . Such additional input data may be used in conjunction with the collected context data to generate the preference criteria as discussed below.

After the context data is obtained in block the preference criteria analysis module correlates the context data to the demographic and or other data stored in the preference database to generate or determine the preference criteria in block . For example if the context data includes location data the preference criteria analysis module may compare the location to the demogaphic data to determine the preferences of the inferred local population.

Additionally or alternatively the preference criteria analysis module may obtain preference and or context data for the local viewers from other remote sources in block . For example as discussed above the mobile digital information display device may communicate with one or more mobile computing device to retrieve preference criteria of the users of the mobile computing devices . To do so the mobile digital information display device may execute a method for establishing communications with mobile computing devices as shown in . The method begins with block in which the mobile digital information display device identifies the local mobile computing devices . The display device may use any suitable methodology to determine those mobile computing devices that are nearby the display device at a particular time. For example in some embodiments the display device may monitor publically available local area networks as the display device is moved about. Additionally or alternatively the display device may establish or otherwise provide the ad hoc network which may be joined by any local mobile computing device . Regardless once the available local mobile computing devices have been identified in block the display device establishes communications with the mobile computing devices in block . The display device and the mobile computing devices may use any suitable communication protocol to effect communications over the ad network or other communication channel.

After communications have been established with the local module computing devices the mobile digital information display device requests the preference criteria and or other context data from the local mobile computing device in block . As discussed above the mobile computing devices may include a privacy management module which controls access to the preference criteria . If so the mobile computing device determines the allowable data in block based on a local privacy policy or other mechanism and transmits such data to the mobile digital information display device . The preference criteria and or other context data is received from the local mobile computing devices in block and the mobile digital information display device may store the retrieved preference criteria in the preference database .

Referring now back to after the preference criteria analysis module has determined the preference criteria for the local viewers in block the method advances to block in which the information selection module of the display device selects the digital information to be displayed. To do so in block the information selection module may compare the preference criteria to characteristics of the digital information stored in the information database . As discussed above the digital information stored in the information database may be stored in association with pre determined characteristics of the digital information e.g. the subject matter type or language of the digital information . Of course such comparison may generate multiple digital information that meet the preference criteria. As such the information selection module may use any suitable methodology to select the digital information from the digital information meeting the preference criteria e.g. the number of times the digital information has been displayed over a predetermined period the time since the digital information was last displayed the content of the digital information the cost value or profit associated with the digital information etc. . Additionally in some embodiments the information selection module may compare context data obtained by the preference criteria analysis module or obtained directly by the information selection module to the characteristics of the digital information to further refine the selection of the digital information in block . For example as discussed above if the mobile digital information display device is stationary digital information having an active presentation may be selected.

After the digital information has been selected in block the selected digital information is displayed on the displays . As discussed above in embodiments wherein the front display is embodied as a front facing display the digital information display engine may display the digital information on the front display in a reverse orientation. For example text of the digital information may be displayed backwards e.g. in a left right reversed orientation such that drivers ahead of the vehicle are able to view the digital information on the front display through a rear view mirror in the correct orientation.

In block the mobile digital information display device determines whether to update the display of the digital information. The display device may use any suitable methodology to determine when if to update the display of the digital information. For example the display device may be configured to update or change the display based on temporal e.g. every five minutes or location based criteria. Alternatively the mobile digital information display device may update the display in response to particular events such as the receipt of new context or preference criteria. If the display is not updated the method loops back to block in which the current digital information continues to be displayed on the displays . However if the mobile digital information display device determines to update the displayed digital information the method loops back to block in which the new preference criteria is determined.

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile digital information display device may be configured to periodically or responsively update the preference database and or the information database by communicating with the digital information data server . To do so the mobile digital information display device may execute a method for updating the data storage . The method begins with block in which the mobile digital information display device determines whether to update the preference database . As discussed above the mobile digital information display device may update the preference database and or information database periodically or in response to a change in the context of the mobile digital information display device e.g. the display device is moved to a new city or other new location . If the display device determines to update the preference database the method advances to block in which the mobile digital information display device communicates with the digital information data server over the network to retrieve a preference database update. The display device subsequently stores the preference database update in the data storage in block .

In block the mobile digital information display device determines whether to update the information database . If so the method advances to block in which the mobile digital information display device communicates with the digital information data server over the network to retrieve a digital information update. The display device subsequently stores the digital information update in the data storage in block .

Referring now to in some embodiments the digital information display engine may be located on the digital information data server rather than or in addition to the mobile digital information display device . In such embodiments the digital information data server includes a digital information display engine having a preference criteria analysis module and an information selection module . The preference criteria analysis module is substantially similar to the preference criteria analysis module of the mobile digital information display device . Similarly the information selection module is substantially similar to the information selection module of the mobile digital information display device . As such determination of the preference criteria of the local viewers of the mobile digital information display device and the selection of the digital information to be displayed by the display device is performed by the digital information data server .

In the embodiment of the digital information data server is configured to determine the preference criteria select the digital information based thereon and transmit the digital information to the mobile digital information display device . To facilitate such functionality the mobile digital information display device may execute a method for obtaining digital information from the digital information data server . The method begins with block in which the mobile digital information display device obtains context data of the display device as discussed above in regard to block of method . In block the mobile digital information display device transmits the context data and any additional data usable to determine the preference criteria to the digital information data server .

As discussed in more detail below the digital information data server selects the digital information to be displayed by the mobile digital information display device which is received by the display device in block . The mobile digital information display device subsequently displays the digital information in block as discussed above with regard to blocks of method . In block the mobile digital information display device determines whether to update the display of the digital information in a manner similar to that discussed above in regard to block of the method . If the display is not updated the method loops back to block in which the current digital information continues to be displayed on the displays . However if the mobile digital information display device determines to update the displayed digital information the method loops back to block in which the new additional context data is obtained and transmitted to the digital information data server .

Referring now to in the embodiment of the digital information data server may execute a method for selecting digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device . The method begins with block in which the digital information data server determines whether a request for digital information has been received from the display device . The display device may periodically or responsively send requests for digital information to the digital information data server . Of course in other embodiments the digital information data server may push the digital information for display to the display device without regard to receiving a specific request for such digital information from the display device .

If the digital information data server does receive a request for digital information from the display device the method advances to block in which the digital information data server receives context data from the mobile digital information display device . As discussed above in regard to the display device is configured to collect or obtain context data of the display device and transmit the obtained context data to the digital information data server .

In block the preference criteria analysis module of the digital information data server determines preference criteria of the likely or inferred local viewers. To do so the preference criteria analysis module may collect or obtain additional context data in some embodiments in block . The digital information data server may obtain preference criteria of the local viewers of the display device from other remote computing devices in block . For example the digital information data server may communicate with the one or more mobile computing device to retrieve the preference criteria of the users of the mobile computing devices . To do so digital information data server may execute the method for establishing communications with the mobile computing devices and retrieving preference criteria therefrom as discussed above with regard to . Additionally in block the digital information data server may retrieve context data of the mobile digital information display device from other remote sources. For example in some embodiments the digital information data server may be configured to communicate with remote traffic navigation and or weather services to retrieve corresponding information regarding the current or predicted locations of the display device . Such additional context information may be used with the context information received from the mobile digital information display device to determine preference criteria by correlating the context data to the demographic and or other data stored in the preference database to generate or determine the preference criteria as discussed above with regard to block of method .

In block the information selection module selects the digital information to be displayed by the display device . To do so in block the information selection module may compare the determined preference criteria to characteristics of the digital information stored in the information database . Additionally in some embodiments the information selection module may compare context data obtained by the preference criteria analysis module or obtained directly by the information selection module to the characteristics of the digital information to further refine the selection of the digital information in block in a manner similar to that described above with regard to block of method .

After the digital information data server has selected the digital information the data server transmits the selected digital information to the mobile digital information display device in block . In some embodiments the digital information data server may select and transmit multiple digital information to allow the mobile digital information display device to display digital information for some period of time without requiring constant communication with the digital information data server . Additionally in some embodiments the digital information data server may be configured to predict or estimate a future location of the mobile digital information display device based on for example the received context data and navigation or map data select digital information for the future locations and transmit the digital information to the display device prior to the display device arriving at the future location. In this way the mobile digital information display device may be pre provisioned with digital information so as to avoid congestion of the communication channel and slow responsiveness of the display of the digital information.

In some embodiments the system of may further include one or more vendor computing device that may communicate with the digital information data server to purchase or otherwise select advertisement space or time of display on the mobile digital information display device . Such purchase of advertisement space may be conducted as an at the moment purchase or selection. For example in some embodiments the digital information data server may execute a method for offering display space of the mobile digital information display device to a vendor. The method begins with block in which the digital information data server determines the preference criteria for the inferred local population of the mobile digital information display device as discussed above with regard to block of method . In block the digital information data server identifies potential display vendors e.g. companies requesting advertisement space based on the determined preference criteria. In some embodiments the vendors may select or otherwise provide preference criteria that they are interested in which may be saved by the digital information data server . For example a company selling alcoholic beverages may select preference criteria indicative of male viewers of a particular age range. In block the digital information data server communicates with identified vendors to offer the display space on the mobile digital information display device . In some embodiments the digital information data server may also send the determined preference criteria and context data to the vendor computing device with the offer for the display space in block .

In block the digital information data server determines whether any offers have been received from the vendors . If so the digital information data server selects an offer from those received e.g. the vendor offering the highest dollar amount for the display space and receives or retrieves the associated digital information for display in block . That is in some embodiments the vendor may transmit the digital information to be displayed with the offer. Alternatively the digital information may already be stored in the information database . Additionally it should be appreciated that in other embodiments the vendors may set up pre established bidding requirements and limits for the display space based on the preference criteria. In such embodiments the digital information data server need not communicate with the vendor computing device to determine which offer to accept. Regardless in block the digital information data server transmits the selected digital information to the mobile digital information display device for display thereon in block .

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications consistent with the disclosure and recited claims are desired to be protected.

Illustrative examples of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the devices systems and methods may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

In one example a mobile digital information display device for displaying information to local viewers may include a display a database and a digital information display engine. In an example the database may have digital information storage therein. In an example the digital information display engine may include a preference criteria analysis logic unit and an information selection logic unit. In an example the preference criteria analysis logic unit may i obtain context data associated with the mobile digital information display device and ii determine as a function of the context data preference criteria for selecting digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device. In an example the information selection logic unit may select digital information to be displayed from the database as a function of the preference criteria. Additionally in an example the digital information display engine may display the selected information on the display of the mobile digital information display device.

In an example the preference criteria analysis logic unit is to obtain context data associated with the mobile digital information display device while the mobile digital information display device is moving from a first location to a second location and the digital information display engine to display the selected information on the display of the mobile digital information display device while the mobile digital information display device is in motion. Additionally in an example the mobile digital information display device is secured to a vehicle. In an example to obtain context data may include to receive sensor data from at least one of a vehicle condition sensor a vehicle environment sensor and a vehicle location sensor. In an example to obtain context data may include to receive an input from an operator or passenger of the vehicle.

Additionally in an example the mobile digital information display device may be configured to be worn or carried by an individual. In an example the digital information may include an advertisement. In an example to obtain context data may include to receive context data indicative of at least one of a location speed and direction of travel of the mobile digital information display device. In an example to obtain context data may include to receive context data indicative of an environmental condition near the current location of the mobile digital information display. In an example the context data may include temporal data. In an example the temporal data is indicative of at least one of the current time of day day of week and month of the year.

Additionally in an example the preference criteria analysis logic unit may identify a mobile computing device located within a reference range of the mobile digital information display device establish communications between the mobile digital information display device and the mobile computing device and receive from the mobile computing device preference criteria data indicative of a preference of a user of the mobile computing device. In an example to identify the mobile computing device may include to identify at least one mobile computing device of a local ad hoc network to which the mobile digital information display device is connected. In an example the mobile computing device may include a computing device of a vehicle. In an example to establish wireless communications may include to establish an ad hoc network. In an example to receive preference criteria data from the mobile computing device may include to receive descriptive information of a user of the mobile computing device. In an example to receive descriptive information of the user may include to receive data indicative of at least one of a gender an age and a preference of the user of the mobile computing device. In an example the display may include a front facing display and a rear facing display and the digital information display engine may to display the selected information on the front facing display and on the rear facing display. In an example the digital information display engine may display the information on the front facing display in a reverse orientation.

In another example a server for selecting digital information for display on a mobile digital information display device may include a data storage comprising an information database and a digital information display engine. The digital information display engine may include i a preference criteria analysis logic unit to obtain context data associated with a mobile digital information display device and generate preference criteria as a function of the context data and ii information selection logic to select digital information from the information database as function of the selection criteria. The digital information display engine may transmit the selected digital information to the mobile digital information display device for display on a display of the mobile digital information display device.

In an example the preference criteria analysis logic unit is to obtain context data associated with a mobile digital information display device while the mobile digital information display device is moving from a first location to a second location. In an example to obtain context data may include to receive from the mobile digital information display device sensor data from at least one of a vehicle condition sensor a vehicle environment sensor and a vehicle location sensor. In an example the digital information may include an advertisement. In an example the context data may include context data indicative of at least one of a location speed and direction of travel of the mobile digital information display device. In an example the context data may include context data indicative of an environmental condition near the current location of the mobile digital information display. In an example the context data may include temporal data. In an example the temporal data is indicative of at least one of the current time of day day of week and month of the year.

Additionally in an example the preference criteria analysis logic unit may identify a mobile computing device located within a reference range of the mobile digital information display device establish communications with the mobile computing device and receive preference criteria data from the mobile computing device. In an example the mobile computing device may include a computing device of a vehicle. In an example the preference criteria data front the mobile computing device may include data indicative of a current location of the mobile computing device. In an example the preference criteria data from the mobile computing device may include descriptive information of a user of the mobile computing device. In an example the descriptive information may include data indicative of at least one of a gender an age and a preference of the user of the mobile computing device. In an example the digital information display engine is to determine a navigation path of the mobile digital display device wherein the context data may include a location on the determined navigation path. In an example the digital information display engine may determine potential vendors of digital information based on the preference criteria present to the potential vendors an offer to display information from the potential vendors the offer including the preference criteria obtain digital information for display from a vendor in response to the offer and transmit the digital information to the mobile digital information display device.

In another example a method for displaying information to local viewers may include determining preference criteria for local viewers of a mobile digital information display device selecting digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device as a function of the preference criteria and displaying the selected information on a display of the mobile digital information device. In an example determining preference criteria may include determining preference criteria for local viewers of a mobile digital information display device while the mobile digital information display is moving from a first location to a second location. In an example displaying the selected information may include displaying the selected information on a display of the mobile digital information device while the mobile digital information display device is in motion.

Additionally in an example determining preference criteria may include obtaining context data of the mobile digital information display device and comparing the context data to demographic data to determine the preference criteria. In an example obtaining context data comprising receiving sensor data from at least one of a vehicle condition sensor a vehicle environment sensor and a vehicle location sensor. In an example obtaining context data may include receiving context data indicative of at least one of a current location and a predicted future location of the mobile digital information display device. In an example obtaining context data further may include retrieving event data indicative of an event occurring near at least one of the current location and the predicted future location of the mobile digital information display device. In an example obtaining context data may include receiving context data indicative of an environmental condition of the current location of the mobile digital information display. In an example obtaining context data may include receiving temporal data. In an example the temporal data is indicative of at least one of the current time of day day of week and month of the year. In an example obtaining context data may include receiving an input from an operator or passenger of a vehicle to which the mobile digital information display device is secured.

Additionally in an example determining preference criteria may include identifying a mobile computing device located within a reference range of the mobile digital information display device establishing communications between the mobile digital information display device and the mobile computing device and receiving preference criteria from the mobile computing device. In an example identifying the mobile computing device may include identifying at least one mobile computing device of a local ad hoc network to which the mobile digital information display device is connected. In an example identifying the mobile computing device may include identifying a computing device of a vehicle. In an example establishing communications may include establishing an ad hoc wireless network. In an example receiving preference criteria from the mobile computing device may include receiving preference criteria indicative of a current location of the mobile computing device. In an example receiving preference criteria from the mobile computing device may include receiving descriptive information of a user of the mobile computing device. In an example receiving descriptive information of the user may include receiving data indicative of at least one of a gender an age and likes dislikes of the user of the mobile computing device. In an example selecting digital information may include comparing the preference criteria to pre established characteristics of the digital information. In an example selecting digital information may include comparing the context data to pre established characteristics of the digital information.

Additionally in an example comparing the context data may include comparing the pre established characteristics of the digital information to at least one of data indicative of whether the digital information display device is in motion and data indicative of an environmental condition of the current location of the digital information display device. In an example obtaining context data may include obtaining context data associated with a mobile digital information display device secured to a vehicle. In an example obtaining context data comprise obtaining context data associated with a mobile digital information display device worn or carried by an individual. In an example selecting digital information to be displayed may include selecting an advertisement to be displayed. In an example displaying the selected information may include displaying the selected information on a front facing display and on a rear facing display of the mobile digital information display device. In an example displaying the selected information of the front facing display may include displaying the information on the front facing display in a reverse orientation.

Additionally in an example the method may further include transmitting the preference criteria to a digital information data server and receiving the selected digital information from the digital information data server in response to the transmitted preference criteria. In an example selecting digital information may include selecting on a digital information data server remote from the mobile digital information display digital information to be displayed on the mobile digital information display device. In an example the method may further include transmitting the selected digital information to the mobile digital information display device. In an example the method may further include obtaining on the digital information data server additional context data associated with at least one of a location environment or local population of the location at which the mobile digital information display device is currently located. In an example the method may further include determining on the digital information data server a navigation path of the mobile digital display device wherein the context data may include a location on the determined navigation path. In an example the method may additionally include determining potential vendors of digital information based on the preference criteria presenting to the potential vendors an offer to display information from the potential vendors the offer including the preference criteria obtaining digital information for display from a vendor in response to the offer and transmitting the digital information to the mobile digital information display device.

