---

title: Mobile device configured to operate on multiple different networks
abstract: An apparatus includes a code division multiple access (CDMA) antenna that is configured to transmit and receive communication signals. The apparatus includes a memory that is configured to store multiple mobile equipment identifiers (MEIDs), multiple activation protocols and instructions, where each MEID includes an identifier that is uniquely recognizable on one of multiple networks and where the activation protocols include protocols for uniquely activating the apparatus on one of multiple different networks each of which have different communication protocols. The apparatus includes a processor that is coupled to the CDMA antenna and to the memory and that is configured to execute the instructions to enable a user to select a network from the multiple different networks on which to activate and operate the apparatus and activate and operate the apparatus on a selected network using an MEID recognizable by the selected network and the activation protocol for the selected network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700089&OS=08700089&RS=08700089
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08700089
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120820
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 829 909 filed Jul. 2 2010 titled Mobile Device Configured To Operate On Multiple Different Networks now U.S. Pat. No. 8 249 649 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This description relates to a mobile device that is configured to operate on multiple different networks.

A mobile device may only operate on a specific type of network that is limited to a single carrier. For example a cellular phone may be configured to operate on a single code division multiple access CDMA network that is operated by a single carrier. Even if the network is operated by more than one carrier the phone may be limited to being activated on that single CDMA network. The user of the cellular phone may want to switch networks and carriers and use the cellular phone on a different network which may be operated by a different carrier. For instance the user of the cellular phone may want to switch to a CDMA network operated by a different CDMA carrier or to a global system for mobile communications GSM network operated by a GSM carrier however the user is unable to switch from the single CDMA network to a different network because the phone is limited to working on a single CDMA network.

It may desirable to provide users with devices which may be activated and used on multiple different networks.

This document describes devices systems and techniques to enable a mobile device to be activated and operated on multiple different networks. In general a mobile device may be configured to operate on one of multiple different networks where each of the different networks has a different communication protocol for activating and or using the mobile device. For example a mobile device may be configured to operate on multiple different code division multiple access CDMA networks where each of the CDMA networks has a different activation and or communication protocol. The mobile device may allow a user to select which one of the multiple CDMA networks on which to activate and operate the mobile device. The mobile device may include a CDMA antenna that is configured to operate at multiple different frequencies. A memory in the mobile device may include multiple mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs and multiple activation protocols where each of the MEIDs are uniquely recognizable on a network. The activation protocols may include different protocols that are used by the different CDMA networks to activate the mobile device on a particular CDMA network.

When a user selects a particular CDMA network which may be associated with a particular carrier the mobile device selects an appropriate MEID from the memory which is uniquely recognizable by the selected CDMA network. The mobile device also selects an activation protocol from the memory which is used to activate the mobile device on the selected network.

Also the mobile device may be switched from one network to another network. For example the user may decide to switch the mobile device from one CDMA network to another CDMA network. The mobile device is configured to receive the selection from the user and to process the selection by using an MEID and activation protocol appropriate for the new CDMA network and to activate and operate the mobile device on the new CDMA network.

Also the mobile device may be switched from one type of network to a different type of network. For example the mobile device may be configured to switch from a CDMA network to a global system for mobile communications GSM network. The mobile device may be configured with access point configurations APNs to activate the mobile device on different GSMs. The mobile device also may be configured to accept and recognize a subscriber identity module SIM chip to enable the device to be activated on a selected GSM network. In another example the mobile device may be configured to switch from a GSM network to a CDMA network.

According to one general aspect an apparatus includes a code division multiple access CDMA antenna that is arranged and configured to transmit and receive communication signals. The apparatus includes a memory that is configured to store multiple mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs multiple activation protocols and instructions where each MEID includes an identifier that is uniquely recognizable on one of a plurality of networks and where the activation protocols include protocols for uniquely activating the apparatus on one of a plurality of different networks each of which have different communication protocols. The apparatus includes a processor that is operably coupled to the CDMA antenna and to the memory and that is arranged and configured to execute the instructions stored on the memory to enable a user to select a network from the multiple different networks on which to activate and operate the apparatus and activate and operate the apparatus on a selected network using one of the MEIDs recognizable by the selected network and the activation protocol for the selected network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the CDMA antenna may include a dual band CDMA antenna that is configured to operate at multiple different frequencies and the processor may be configured to execute the instructions stored on the memory to operate the dual band CDMA antenna at a frequency for operation on the selected network. In one exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to execute the instructions stored on the memory to activate the apparatus on the selected network over the air. Alternatively and or additionally the processor may be configured to execute the instructions stored on the memory to activate the apparatus on the selected network over a wireless local area network.

The processor may be configured to execute instructions stored on the memory to enable a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activate and operate the apparatus on the different network using a different MEID of the MEIDs recognizable by the different network and the activation protocol for the different network. In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include a first CDMA network and the different network may include a second CDMA network where the second CDMA network is different from the first CDMA network.

The apparatus may further include a global system for mobile communications GSM antenna where the memory further includes multiple access point network APN configurations where each of the APN configurations include protocols for uniquely activating the apparatus on one of a plurality of different GSM networks each of which have different communication protocols. The processor may be configured to execute the instructions stored on the memory to enable a user to switch from the selected network to a GSM network recognize a presence of a subscriber identity module SIM chip associated with a specific GSM network and activate and operate the apparatus on the specific GSM network using the APN configuration for the specific GSM network. In one exemplary implementation the GSM antenna may include a quad band GSM antenna.

In another general aspect an apparatus includes a first antenna that is arranged and configured to transmit and receive communication signals on at least a first network a second antenna that is arranged and configured to transmit and receive communication signals on at least a second network where the second network is a different network than the first network and the second network has a different communication protocol than the first network. The apparatus includes a memory that is configured to store protocols and instructions to activate and operate the apparatus on the first network and the second network and a processor that is operably coupled to the first antenna the second antenna and the memory and that is arranged and configured to execute the instructions stored on the memory to enable a user to select one of the first network and the second network on which to activate and operate the apparatus and activate and operate on the selected network using the protocols for the selected network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the first antenna may include a code division multiple access CDMA antenna and the second antenna may include a global system for mobile communications GSM antenna. The processor may be configured to execute instructions stored on the memory to enable a user to switch from the selected network to a different network from the first network and the second network and activate and operate the apparatus on the different network. In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include a code division multiple access CDMA network and the different network may include a global system for mobile communications GSM network. In another exemplary implementation the selected network may include a global system for mobile communications GSM network and the different network may include a code division multiple access CDMA network.

In another general aspect a recordable storage medium may have recorded and stored thereon instructions that when executed perform the actions of enabling a user to select a network from multiple different networks each of which have different communication protocols on which to activate and operate a mobile device and activating and operating the mobile device on a selected network using one of multiple mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs and one of multiple activation protocols stored on the mobile device and recognizable by the selected network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the instructions that when executed perform the action of activating and operating the mobile device may include instructions that when executed perform the action of activating the mobile device on the selected network over the air. Alternatively and or additionally the instructions that when executed perform the action of activating and operating the mobile device may include instructions that when executed perform the action of activating the mobile device on the selected network over a wireless local area network.

In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include a code division multiple access CDMA network. The recordable storage medium of may further include instructions that when executed perform the actions of enabling a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activating and operating the mobile device on the different network using a different MEID recognizable by the different network and the activation protocol for the different network. In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include a first code division multiple access CDMA network and the different network may include a second CDMA network where the second CDMA network is different from the first CDMA network.

In another general aspect a method includes enabling using a processor a user to select a network from multiple different networks each of which have different communication protocols on which to activate and operate a mobile device and activating and operating using the processor the mobile device on a selected network using one of multiple mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs and one of multiple activation protocols stored on the mobile device and recognizable by the selected network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example activating and operating the mobile device may include activating using the processor the mobile device on the selected network over the air. Alternatively and or additionally activating and operating the mobile device may include activating using the processor the mobile device on the selected network over a wireless local area network.

In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include a code division multiple access CDMA network. The method may further include enabling using the processor a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activating and operating using the processor the mobile device on the different network using a different MEID recognizable by the different network and the activation protocol for the different network. In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include a first code division multiple access CDMA network and the different network may include a second CDMA network where the second CDMA network is different from the first CDMA network.

In another general aspect a recordable storage medium may have recorded and stored thereon instructions that when executed perform the actions of enabling a user to select between at least one code division multiple access CDMA network and at least one global system for mobile communications GSM network on which to activate and operate a mobile device and activating and operating the mobile device on the selected network using protocols stored on the mobile device for the selected network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the recordable storage medium may further include instructions that when executed performs the actions of enabling a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activating and operating the mobile device on the different network. In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include the CDMA network and the different network include the GSM network. In another exemplary implementation the selected network may include the GSM network and the different network may include the CDMA network.

In another general aspect a method includes enabling using a processor a user to select between at least one code division multiple access CDMA network and at least one global system for mobile communications GSM network on which to activate and operate a mobile device and activating and operating using the processor the mobile device on the selected network using protocols stored on the mobile device for the selected network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may further include enabling using the processor a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activating and operating using the processor the mobile device on the different network. In one exemplary implementation the selected network may include the CDMA network and the different network may include the GSM network. In another exemplary implementation the selected network may include the GSM network and the different network may include the CDMA network.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes devices systems and techniques to enable a mobile device to be activated and operated on multiple different networks where each of the different networks has a different communication protocol for activating and or using the mobile device. This document also describes devices systems and techniques for enabling a user of a mobile device to select a network from among multiple different networks on which to activate and operate the mobile device. Also this document describes devices systems and techniques for enabling a user to switch the operation of the mobile device from one network to a different network.

Referring to an exemplary block diagram of a mobile device is illustrated. The mobile device may include exemplary components such as an antenna a memory a user interface and a processor . The antenna the memory and the user interface may be operably coupled to the processor . The mobile device may include other components not shown in this figure . The other components are described in more detail below in conjunction with other figures. The mobile device may include any type of device that is capable of communicating over a network.

The antenna may be arranged and configured to transmit and receive communication signals including data signals and any type of signal over a network. In one exemplary implementation the antenna may include a code division multiple access CDMA antenna. The antenna may include a dual band CDMA antenna. The dual band CDMA antenna may be configured to operate at multiple different frequencies. In this manner the antenna may be capable of transmitting and receiving signals over multiple different CDMA networks where each of the CDMA networks may have different operating frequencies and different activation and or communication protocols. For example one CDMA network may be configured to operate at a first frequency and another CDMA network may be configured to operate at a second frequency where the first frequency is different from the second frequency.

The memory may be configured to store multiple identifiers protocols instructions and other information. The memory may be coupled to the processor and the memory may provide the information to the processor . In one exemplary implementation the memory may be configured to store multiple mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs and multiple activation protocols . An MEID includes an identifier that is uniquely recognizable on a network. The MEID enables the network and the network carrier to recognize the mobile device on the network.

In one exemplary implementation the MEIDs may be pre defined and stored in the memory prior to activation of the mobile device on any network. The pre defined MEIDs may be associated with particular CDMA networks and the memory may include other information that associates a specific MEID with a particular CDMA network. Additionally and or alternatively one or more new MEIDs may be added to the memory .

In one exemplary implementation the memory may store at least one MEID that is uniquely recognizable on a first CDMA network and may store at least another MEID that is uniquely recognizable on a second CDMA network where the first CDMA network is different from the second CDMA network. In this manner the mobile device may use one of the MEIDs that is uniquely recognized on the first CDMA network and may use another of the MEIDs that is uniquely recognized on the second CDMA network. The MEIDs may be reusable such that the mobile device may be configured to switch between the first CDMA network and the second CDMA network and vice versa using the MEID recognized by the first CDMA network and using the MEID recognized by the second CDMA network.

The memory may be configured to store multiple activation protocols . An activation protocol may include instructions and a protocol format for activating the mobile device on a particular network. For example each different CDMA network may use a different activation protocol and or communication protocol to activate and operate a device on its network. The memory may include multiple activation protocols each of which may be associated with a different CDMA network. In this manner the mobile device may use one of the activation protocols to activate and operate the mobile device on a first CDMA network and may use another activation protocol to activate and operate the mobile device on a second CDMA network where the first CDMA network is different from the second CDMA network. The activation protocols may be reusable such that the mobile device may be configured to switch between the first CDMA network and the second CDMA network and vice versa using the activation protocols that are particular to each of the CDMA networks. The activation protocols may be predefined and stored in the memory . Additionally and or alternatively the memory may be updated with one or more new activation protocols .

The user interface may be configured to provide a display to a user and to enable the user to interact with the mobile device . In one exemplary implementation the user interface may provide an interface to enable the user to select a network from among multiple different networks on which to activate and operate the mobile device . The user interface may be configured to provide options for the multiple different networks from which to choose. The networks that are available for selection by the user may be ones that are associated with the MEIDs and the activation protocols that are stored in the memory for those particular networks. The user interface be configured to enable the user to select an initial network on which to activate and operate the mobile device . Additionally the user interface may be configured to enable the user to select a different network on which to activate and operate the mobile device after the mobile device has been activated on the initial network.

In one exemplary implementation the mobile device may be configured to activate on a default network. At a later time the user interface may enable the user to switch the mobile device to a different network. For example the mobile device may default to be activated and operated on a first CDMA network. At a later time the user interface may enable the user to select a different CDMA network on which to activate and operate the mobile device .

The processor may be configured to execute instructions to perform various actions. For example the processor may be configured to execute instructions to control the antenna . In one exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to control the frequency at which the antenna operates. For instance if the antenna is a dual band CDMA antenna then the processor may control the frequency at which the antenna operates. The selection of the frequency may be based on the particular network on which the mobile device is going to be activated and operated.

The processor may be configured to execute instructions to control the memory . In one exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to select an appropriate MEID from the MEIDs stored in the memory and to select an appropriate activation protocol from the activation protocols stored in the memory based on which network the mobile device is to be activated and operated. The processor may be configured to use the selected MEID and the selected activation protocol to activate and operate the mobile device on a particular network.

The processor may be configured to execute instructions to control the user interface . The processor may be configured to provide the user interface the options of networks from which to choose to activate and operate the mobile device . The processor may be configured to process the inputs received by the user interface and to provide output instructions to the user interface .

In this manner the processor may be configured to enable a user to select a network from multiple different networks on which to activate and operate the mobile device . The processor may process the input of the selected network and control the memory to select the appropriate MEID and activation protocol for the selected network. The processor may be configured to control the antenna to select the frequency for the selected network. The processor may perform the actions to activate and operate the mobile device on the selected network. For example the user may select one of multiple different CDMA networks on which to activate and operate the device. The processor processes the selection received through the user interface and selects an appropriate MEID and activation protocol from the memory and uses the MEID and activation protocol to activate and operate the mobile device on the selected network.

In one exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to activate the mobile device on a selected network over the air. In another exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to activate the mobile device on a selected network over a wireless local area network.

In another exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to switch the mobile device from one network to a different network. In this example the processor may be configured to select a different operating frequency for the antenna and to select a different MEID and a different activation protocol from the memory . The processor may use the selected MEID and the selected activation protocol to activate and operate the mobile device on the newly selected network. As part of the process of switching to a new network the processor may be configured to deactivate the mobile device on the previous network. In this manner the processor may be configured to enable the user to switch from one CDMA network to a different CDMA network by performing these actions.

In one exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to enable the mobile device to roam from one CDMA network to a different CDMA network without input from the user.

Referring to a process illustrates example operations of the mobile device of . Process may include enabling using a processor a user to select a network from multiple different networks on which to activate and operate a mobile device . For example the processor may be used to enable a user to select a network from multiple different networks on which to activate and operate the mobile device . Each of the networks may have different activation and or communication protocols.

Process also may include activating and operating using the processor the mobile device on the selected network using one of multiple mobile equipment identifiers MEIDs and one of multiple activation protocols stored on the mobile device and recognizable by the selected network . For example the processor may be configured to activate and operate the mobile device on the selected network using one of multiple MEIDs and one of multiple activation protocols stored in memory and recognizable by the selected network.

Optionally process may include enabling using the processor a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activating and operating the mobile device on the different network using a different MEID recognizable by the different network and the activation protocol for the different network . For example the processor may be configured to enable the user to switch the mobile device from the selected network to a different network. In this example the processor would select an MEID uniquely recognizable by the new network and the activation protocol for the new network and use the MEID and the activation protocol to activate and operate the mobile device on the new network.

Referring now to an exemplary mobile device is illustrated. The mobile device may include a first antenna a second antenna a memory a user interface and a processor . The mobile device may perform all of the same actions and functions as mobile device of with components having like reference numbers being configured to operate in a same or similar manner. In addition to having the same features and functionality of mobile device of mobile device also may include the second antenna which may be a different type of antenna than the first antenna .

In one exemplary implementation the second antenna may be a global system for mobile communications GSM antenna. The GSM antenna may be a multi band antenna including a quad band GSM antenna. In this manner the second antenna may enable the mobile device to be activated and operated on multiple different GSM networks each of which may operate at different frequencies.

In one exemplary implementation the first antenna may be a CDMA antenna and the second antenna may be a GSM antenna. In this manner the mobile device may be activated and operated on one of multiple different CDMA networks or GSM networks. The user may be enabled to select using the user interface which type of network to activate and operate the mobile device . The memory may store the MEIDs and application protocols for activating and operating the mobile device on multiple different CDMA networks. The memory also may store multiple access point network APN configurations to activate and operate the mobile device on multiple different GSM networks each of which may have different activation and or communication protocols. The mobile device also may be configured to receive and use different subscriber identity module SIM chips which enable a device to be uniquely recognized on a GSM network.

The processor may be configured to enable the user to select which network to activate and operate the mobile device and to activate and operate the mobile device on the selected network. For example the user may select using the user interface to activate and operate the mobile device on a particular GSM network. The processor is configured to recognize the SIM card input into the mobile device by the user and to select the appropriate APN configuration from the memory . The processor is configured to control the second antenna such that the second antenna operates at the appropriate frequency for the selected GSM network. In another example if the user selects a CDMA network then the processor is configured to perform the actions as discussed above with respect to .

The processor may be configured to enable the user to switch the activation and operation of the mobile device from one network to a different network. For example the processor may perform the actions to switch the activation and operation of the mobile device from a GSM network to a CDMA network. Additionally the processor may perform the actions to switch the activation and operation of the mobile device from a CDMA network to a GSM network.

In one exemplary implementation the processor may enable the mobile device to roam from one type of network to a different type of network without any input from the user. For example the processor may enable the mobile device to roam from a GSM network to a CDMA network and vice versa without any input from the user.

Referring to a process illustrates example operations of the mobile device of . Process may include enabling using a processor a user to select between at least one CDMA network and at least one GSM network on which to activate and operate a mobile device . For example the processor may be configured to enable a user to select through the user interface between one or more CDMA network and one or more GSM networks on which to activate and operate the mobile device .

Process may include activating and operating using the processor the mobile device on the selected network using protocols stored on the mobile device for the selected network . For example the processor may be configured to activate and operate the mobile device on the selected network using the protocols stored in memory for the selected network. The selected network may be a CDMA network or a GSM network.

Process optionally may include enabling using the processor a user to switch from the selected network to a different network and activating and operating the mobile device on the different network . For example the processor may be configured to switch the mobile device from a GSM network to a CDMA network or to switch the mobile device from a CDMA network to a GSM network.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the features described here is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to display notifications regarding events on the device and to permit a user to conveniently pull down detail about the events relating to the notifications into an extended view of the events.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for responding to notification of alerts and responding to messages and the like and also to a touch screen . The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 5GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 5.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 5 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bidirectional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that generate notifications about alerts such as newly arriving messages on the device.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for notifications and interactions with messages and other events using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or AudioNideo Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding MC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications such as in the manners discussed in the embodiments above a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a messaging application . The messaging application may receive and send messages by a number of mechanisms such as e mail voice mail and text message and may interaction with the notification manager to alert a user when new messages arrive.

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manager processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example much of this document has been described with respect to television advertisements but other forms of future viewership based advertisements may also be addressed such as radio advertisements and on line video advertisements.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

