---

title: System, method and graphical user interface for managing contacts and calendars within an online card system
abstract: A system, a method, and a user interface are described for personalizing and sending stationery/cards. A reminder list on the user interface includes a list of reminder entries each identifying an upcoming event including events generated based on a specified relationship between the user and one or more contacts of the user. A recommendation region is populated one or more recommended stationery/card designs associated with one of the entries in the reminder list. A stationery/card personalization engine provides the user with a set of personalization options related to the selected stationery/card design, and generates personalized stationery based on the selected stationery/card design and the user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959429&OS=08959429&RS=08959429
owner: Shutterfly, Inc.
number: 08959429
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 703 051 titled System. Methods and graphical user interface for managing contracts and calendars within an online card system filed Feb. 9 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 196 038.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 703 051 is a continuation in part of and claims priority to the following co pending U.S. patent applications 

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 638 819 filed Dec. 15 2009 now abandoned entitled System And Method For Managing Contacts Within An Online Stationery System 

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 638 833 filed Dec. 15 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 255 290 entitled System And Method For Managing Contacts Within An Online Stationery System 

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 638 844 filed Dec. 15 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 239 290 entitled Graphical User Interface System And Method For Managing Contacts Within An Online Stationery System .

This invention relates generally to the field of network data processing systems. More particularly the invention relates to an improved architecture and method for managing contacts and calendars within an online stationery system.

Web based systems for designing stationery such as wedding invitations birth announcements thank you cards birthday party invitations etc are currently available over the Internet. These services allow a user to enter a personalized message on a stationery template via a Web browser. The service then prints the stationery with the personalized message and mails the printed stationery and envelopes to the end user. The end user then mails the stationery to one or more recipients.

Some online stationery services will also mail stationery directly to recipients on behalf of the end user. In order to do so the user must provide the stationery service with the names and addresses of the recipients. illustrate screenshots from one particular stationery Website www.greetz.com which provides options for manually entering a new name address of a recipient or importing a group of addresses from an Excel spreadsheet . As illustrated in upon selecting an Excel spreadsheet from the user s local hard drive the user is prompted with a plurality of drop down menus to identify the data fields for the address lines. Once the import is complete a list of recipients is provided as shown in . The end user is permitted to delete names from the list by selecting a trash icon but no other mechanism is provided for editing or otherwise managing the list of recipients on the online stationery service.

Consequently what is needed is an improved system and method for importing and managing contacts within an online stationery service.

A system method and graphical user interface GUI are described for managing a contacts and calendar database within an online stationery card service. For example a system implemented by an online stationery card service allowing a user to personalize and send non electronic stationery cards is described the system comprising a graphical user interface for personalizing and sending non electronic stationery cards comprising a reminder list comprised a plurality of reminder entries each of the reminder entries identifying an upcoming event including events generated based on a specified relationship between the user and one or more contacts stored in a contacts database of the user a recommendation region comprising a plurality of stationery card design recommendations the recommendation region populated with stationery card designs associated with a specified one or the one or more entries in the reminder list including the events generated based on the specified relationship between the user and each of the contacts and a stationery card personalization engine executed in response to the user selecting one of the stationery card design recommendations from the recommendation region the stationery personalization engine providing the end user with a set of personalization options related to the selected stationery card design and generating personalized stationery with the selected stationery card design based on user input.

Described below is a system and method for managing contacts and calendars within an online stationery card system. Throughout the description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to avoid obscuring the underlying principles of the present invention.

It should be noted that the terms stationery cards and greeting cards are used interchangeably herein. For example the term stationery may refer to greeting cards e.g. holiday cards birthday cards invitations e.g. wedding birthday invitations etc and any other form of non electronic communication and or images printed on a medium e.g. paper fabric etc using any form of printing device.

At a contacts import module manages the importation of contacts from various local and or online contact databases identified by the end user. In the illustrated embodiment the contacts import module comprises a format conversion module and a conflict detection and resolution module . As shown in the format conversion module reads contacts data from online contacts databases local contacts databases i.e. local to the user s client computer and or existing contacts already stored on the online stationery service e.g. the end user may have already established an account on the online stationery service to send stationery and may have entered information for a set of contacts . If the online local contact formats are supported determined at then at the format conversion module converts the contacts to a format optimized for use on an online stationery service . To perform the format conversion the format conversion module parses the contact data in source data structure e.g. the CSV file vCard file etc extracts the data and assigns the data to appropriate data fields in the new data structure. Various well known techniques for converting data from one format to another may be employed by the format conversion module . Once converted and following conflict detection described below the contacts data is stored in its new format within a contacts database on the stationery service. Various features associated with this new data format are described in detail below see e.g. and associated text .

At a conflict detection and resolution module merges the local and or online contacts with existing contacts already stored on the online stationery service and detects any conflicts which may result from the merge operation. A conflict may result if one or more contacts being imported are already stored within the existing contacts database . In such a case the conflict detection and resolution module resolves the conflicts at using a set of conflict resolution rules described below . Once all conflicts have been resolved the data is persisted within the contacts database and made accessible to end users via the stationery service contacts manager . In one embodiment the contacts database is implemented using mySQL. However various different database formats may be employed while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention e.g. Microsoft SQL IBM SQL etc .

At the user identifies one or more households within the stationery service contacts database . As described below households are specialized groups of contacts who live at the same address. The concept of a household is a particularly useful abstraction for an online stationery service which mails stationery on behalf of a user.

As illustrated in in one embodiment all operations to the stationery service contacts database occur through the stationery service contacts manager . That is the stationery service contacts database is used for persistent storage of contacts data containing the features described herein and the stationery service contacts manager is the application layer program code used to perform operations on the stationery service contacts database as described below. The presentation and session management logic comprises the program code for maintaining user sessions and for dynamically generating Web pages containing among other things the graphical user interface GUI features for manipulating contacts data as illustrated herein.

Returning to the method of at the user selects and personalizes a stationery design. In one embodiment this is accomplished with a stationery personalization engine such as that described in co pending application entitled SAMFDAGOS Ser. No. 12 188 721 filed Aug. 8 2008 which is assigned to the assignee of the present application and which is incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment the stationery personalization engine performs all of the functions described in the co pending application as well as the additional functions described herein e.g. selecting contacts households for a stationery mailing via the stationery service contacts manager selecting between a default message or a personal message for the contacts households etc .

At the end user creates a default message to be used for a stationery mailing and at the contacts and or households for the mailing are identified by the end user. If the user wishes to include a personalized message in lieu of the default message for one or more contacts households determined at then the user selects a contact household at and enters the personalized message for the contact household at . If any additional personalized messages are to be included determined at then steps and are repeated until all personalized messages have been entered.

At all of the information related to the stationery order including the selected stationery design default messages personalized messages and associated contacts and households are formatted for printing by a print module which generates a print job . The formatting may include converting the stationery data mentioned above into a format usable by a particular printer. By way of example a letter press printer may require different formatting than a digital press printer. In one embodiment the specifications for the print job are encapsulated as metadata in an Extensible Markup Language XML document and transmitted to an external print service . In one embodiment the XML document includes a hyperlink e.g. a URL to the formatted print job on the online stationery service . The print service then accesses the print job by selecting the hyperlink. Regardless of how the print job is accessed at the formatted print job is transmitted to either an internal printer or an external print service e.g. over the Internet . Once printing is complete the online stationery service or the print service mails the stationery to the contacts and or households identified by the end user.

Having provided an overview of the method set forth in and the architecture illustrated in various specific details associated with managing contacts generating print jobs and mailing stationery from an online stationery service will now be provided. It should be noted however that the underlying principles of the invention are not limited to the particular architecture shown in or the particular method set forth in .

In one embodiment the different graphical user interface GUI features described herein are generated by presentation and session management logic executed on the online stationery service. In one embodiment various well known functional modules associated within the presentation and session management logic are executed to receive input process the input interact with one or more other modules shown in and dynamically generate Web pages containing the results. The Web pages are then transmitted to the user s client computer and rendered on a browser . The Web pages may be formatted according to the well known HyperText Markup Language HTML or Extensible HTML XHTML formats and may provide navigation to other Web pages via hypertext links. One embodiment utilizes Dynamic HTML DHTML a collection of technologies used together to create interactive Web sites by using a combination of a static markup language e.g. HTML a client side scripting language e.g. JavaScript a presentation definition language e.g. CSS and the Document Object Model DOM .

Turning now to in one embodiment the user is prompted to identify online and offline contacts databases via a series of hyperlinks see e.g. step in . In the example shown the three online links include Facebook Gmail and Yahoo contacts. A set of five links are provided for importing contacts from different types of CSV files and a set of two links are provided for importing contacts from different vCard files.

In one embodiment when importing online address books such as those available from Facebook Gmail and Yahoo the user is asked to provide authentication data such as a user name and a password. The online stationery service then uses the authentication data to log in to the online service and retrieve the contacts list on behalf of the user.

Check boxes and are also provided to import group names with the contacts and to add the imported contacts to a specific group within the user s existing address book . The specific group is identified via a drop down menu containing a list of available groups. Once the set of contacts are selected within region the user imports the contacts by selecting an import button .

As mentioned above a conflict detection and resolution module identifies existing contacts which match contacts being imported from the various sources and attempts to resolve any conflicts which may exist between the data. In one embodiment each conflict is identified to the end user and the user is prompted to specify how to resolve the conflict. For example illustrates a Web based graphical user interface presented to the user which shows the contact data contained in the existing contacts database the contact data to be imported and the merged contact data which would result from the import . In one embodiment the differences between the existing and imported data is highlighted. For example in data found in the existing database but not the database to be imported is highlighted with a first color e.g. orange and data found in the contacts database to be imported but not the existing contacts database is highlighted with a second color e.g. green . Thus the merged contact data is shown with some entries highlighted in the first color and some entries highlighted in the second color.

As shown in some of the conflicting data is combined into corresponding fields within the merged contact . For example in the notes field is appended to include notes from both the existing and the imported contacts. However certain data fields cannot be merged in this manner. For example if the existing contact has a different home address than the imported contact then the conflict detection and resolution module must select one of the two addresses as the primary home address. In one embodiment when a conflict of this nature occurs the default operation of the conflict detection and resolution module is to keep the data from the existing contact and to append the data from the imported contact into the notes field of the merged contact . For example in the nickname Al title Engineer and company Tiny Prints are selected from the existing contact and the nickname DJ Albert title DJ and company Mr. DJ Productions from the imported contact are appended within the notes field of the merged contact .

In one embodiment the user is given the option to select the existing version the imported version or the merged version using a mouse keyboard and or other cursor control device. A checkbox option is also provided to allow the user to apply the choice to all remaining contacts to be reviewed. If the checkbox is not selected the user will review and select each conflict individually.

Multiple contacts and or households may be highlighted in region e.g. by holding CTRL and selecting with a mouse and processed by selecting options in region . For example a drop down menu of available groups allows the user to associate the highlighted contacts with a group. An export button allows the user to export the contacts to a file e.g. a CSV or vCard file . A merge into household button when selected allows the end user to create a new household comprised of the selected contacts. Upon selection of this button the end user is presented with a field for entering a new household name. As illustrated in once a new household is created the household is displayed within the second region of the GUI along with other contacts and or households. As illustrated the contacts associated with the household are displayed beneath the household entry and indented.

As illustrated in in one embodiment of the GUI when a household entry is selected from within the second region of the GUI contacts listed in the second region may be clicked on and dragged into a household detail region to add the contacts to the household. Multiple contacts may be selected by selecting the CTRL key and highlighting the contacts with a mouse or other cursor control device.

As illustrated in in one embodiment a user may select one or more contacts e.g. by holding down the CTRL key and drag the contacts over another contact in the contact list. Doing so will provide the user the option to either merge the contacts by selecting a merge button or to create a new household with the contacts by selecting a new household button .

Returning to region also includes a selectable option to send cards to the contacts selected in region . Selecting this option causes the stationery personalization engine to begin the stationery design process using contacts identified by the stationery service contacts manager e.g. starting at step in . For example the user will be provided the option to select a stationery template and enter a default message and or a personalized message for certain contacts. After the mail order is completed the print module will transmit the stationery order to one of the internal printers or the external print service and after printing the stationery order will be mailed to the selected contacts.

In addition a send card link is provided for each address in the contact details window which initiates the process of selecting designing and mailing stationery for the contacts associated with the address e.g. as described above with respect to the send card button in region of .

In addition a reminder region is provided within the contact details window to provide reminders of upcoming dates such as birthdays and anniversaries for contacts within the user s contacts list. The layout within the region comprises an indicator of the type of reminder e.g. birthday followed by the date of the reminder followed by a brief description e.g. 40 years old in 6 months . In one embodiment certain contact data such as birthdays and anniversaries are identified by the stationery service contacts manager as reminders. In addition links are provided to configure automated reminders for the end user. For example in one embodiment upon setting a reminder for a particular event the stationery service contacts manager will transmit an email instant message or SMS message to remind the end user of the event and or will update the user s calendar with the event. Various other types of reminders may be employed while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention. In addition for each reminder a send card link is provided to initiate the process described above to design and mail stationery to the contact associated with the reminder.

In addition a purchase history region is provided within the contact details window to display the recent purchase history of the end user. As illustrated entries within the purchase history include images of the stationery designs and recently purchased by the end user along with an indication of the stationery type and message and the date that the stationery was purchased.

In addition to using the address validation techniques described above one embodiment of the invention confirms current mailing addresses by transmitting email messages to contacts. As illustrated in in response to the selection of a particular contact a window is presented asking the end user if an email request should be sent. A default request message is used unless the user selects the checkbox for adding a personal message. If this checkbox is selected a window such as appears to allow the user to enter a personal message. In one embodiment upon selection of add a personal message check box the message field is pre populated with the default message which may then be edited by the user.

A GUI for selecting multiple contacts is illustrated at . In this embodiment contacts to receive the email request are selected via check boxes. In one embodiment certain contacts who have specifically asked not to receive requests and or for whom the user does not have an email address are grayed out thereby preventing selection via a checkbox . User selection of a send request s button from or a send request button within window will cause the confirmation request email to be sent to the selected contacts.

Both window for a single request and for multiple requests include a view sample email link to display a sample request email. The sample request email may be displayed in a new window a new DHTML layer or as an in line DIV HTML element .

In addition to providing reminders within the address book window shown in and the contact details window shown in one embodiment of the stationery service contacts manager will automatically generate reminder emails for the end user. illustrates one such reminder email in which upcoming dates are listed in chronological order and for each reminder links are provided to generate a subsequent reminder e.g. remind me again in 3 days . In addition for each reminder a send a card link is provided which when selected initiates the stationery design process on the online stationery service for the associated contact s as described above . In addition a secondary listing is provided for those contacts for which the user has not specifically requested a reminder.

As mentioned above in one embodiment of the invention the online stationery service will mail stationery to selected contacts on behalf of the end user. illustrate one embodiment of the invention for selecting contacts for a stationery mailing. Two tabs are provided for specifying contacts. The first tab generates a series of data entry fields for specifying a new contact name and address for someone not found in the user s address book . The second tab provides a list of selectable contacts from the user s address book . A drop down menu is provided to select specific groups of contacts to be displayed within the list . Individual contacts within the list are selected via check boxes as illustrated. Regardless of whether the contacts are entered manually or selected from the address book the user selects an add button to add the contact information to the set of contacts for the stationery order. Contacts may be added to one of two different groups a mail for me group which includes contacts to whom the online stationery service will mail stationery directly and a address ship to me group which includes contacts for whom the online stationery service will print stationery envelops and then mail the order to the end user. In the mail for me group is opened thereby displaying those contacts selected for a direct mail option. The address ship to me group may be displayed in a similar manner upon selection of a hyperlink as illustrated in . Specifically in two separate lists are compiled a mail for me list and a address ship to me list . Contacts may be added to each of the lists via two corresponding add buttons and . In addition contacts may be moved between the lists by highlighting a contact from one of the lists and selecting a move button .

Thus within the GUI shown in and two different options are provided for selecting contacts and two different delivery options mail for me or address mail to me are provided for delivering the stationery order.

As mentioned above one embodiment of the invention allows the end user to specify a default message and or to enter personalized messages for each contact. illustrates one embodiment of a Web based GUI for specifying a default message. A greeting field is provided for entering a default greeting e.g. Hi Hey Dear etc. and a selectable option is provided to mail merge the greeting when possible e.g. using contact information from the user s address book . For mail merge a drop down menu is provided to indicate whether the first or last name of the contact should be used. First name is selected in indicating that the greeting will be placed in front of the first name of the stationery recipient e.g. Hey Albert . A message field is provided for entering a default message and a signature field is provided for entering a default signature e.g. Best Regards Tom . In addition options are provided for entering a picture selecting a default font and selecting a default font size .

A method for selecting stationery purchase options according to one embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . In one embodiment the method is implemented within the context of the GUI and system described above.

At after selecting a set of recipients from the user s address book and selecting a personalized and or default message for each recipient a user selects stationery delivery options. In one embodiment the options include mail all for me indicating that the stationery service will be responsible for printing and mailing the stationery order directly to recipients ship all to me indicating that the stationery service will print and ship the order directly to the end user and ship some for me and mail some for me indicating that the stationery service will be responsible for printing and mailing a portion of the stationery order directly to recipients and will ship the remainder of the order to the end user.

At the user indicates to the stationery service whether return addresses are to be printed on envelopes. At the user indicates whether mailing labels are to be used. At the stationery service identifies the recipient and user addresses from its database and at generates a print job to print the stationery and envelopes containing the addresses according to the user s specified preferences e.g. using mailing labels return addresses etc . The stationery order stationery and envelopes is then printed.

At if the user selected mail all to me then the stationery service mails the stationery directly to the recipients. At if the user selected ship all to me then the stationery service ships the stationery order directly to the end user. At if the user selected ship some to me and mail some for me then the stationery service mails some of the stationery order to recipients on behalf of the user and ships the remainder of the stationery order to the end user.

In one embodiment the stationery order is generated and sent to a printing service as described in the co pending US patent application entitled SMPPSDSFOS Ser. No. 12 638 851 filed Dec. 15 2009 which is assigned to the assignee of the present patent application and which incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the calendar database stores calendar data for each user of the online stationery greeting card service and the calendar service comprises executable program code for managing the calendar data e.g. reading adding deleting and modifying calendar entries . In one embodiment the calendar service also acts as an interface to the calendar data to other system modules and e.g. by exposing a calendar data API .

The reminder service generates graphical or audible reminders of upcoming calendar events and may prioritize the events based on a set of prioritization rules. In one embodiment the calendar events are prioritized chronologically but some events are given relatively higher priority than other events based on the relationship between the user and the card stationery recipients e.g. the user s parents may be given a higher priority than the user s friends notwithstanding the event dates . For example an entry corresponding to Mother s Day may be prioritized at the top of the list even though other events e.g. Labor Day are nearer in time. In one embodiment the highest prioritized event is either the next event created by the user birthday anniversary other etc OR the next significant Holiday where significant holidays are identified in the online stationery card system and may change over time. In one embodiment the significant holidays are Mother s Day Father s Day and Christmas.

The recommendation engine with filtering logic generates stationery card recommendations to the end user based on the user s preferences and allows the user to filter the results according to user specified filtering criteria. In one embodiment the recommendations are categorized based on certain stationery card characteristics and visually displayed to the end user in different categories e.g. new designs with pictures etc . Moreover in one embodiment the recommendation engine recommends stationery designs based on the preferences of the user and or the preferences of the recipient if known .

In one embodiment the scheduling service implements a scheduling algorithm to ensure that stationery card orders are delivered within a specified delivery window and or on a specific date. For example the user may specify that a stationery card order is to arrive 3 4 days prior to a recipient s birthday. In such a case the user does not want the card to arrive to soon e.g. 2 weeks prior to the birthday or too late after the birthday . To precisely schedule stationery card orders one embodiment of the scheduling service evaluates the time required by the print services required to fulfill the order e.g. thermography digital press etc. the delivery type e.g. regular mail FedEx etc and the end user preferences.

In one embodiment three data points are used to determine the delivery date processing time fulfillment time and shipping transit time. The processing time may be based on the type of order. For example processing time can be 0 days for greeting cards and several days for some stationery cards e.g. those which require additional review by the online card stationery service prior to fulfillment . The processing time is based on business days so it must factor in non business days such as Holidays and Weekends to determine the number of calendar days required for processing. Fulfillment time is the number of days required to print finish and ship mail the order and is typically between 1 3 days e.g. depending on the printing requirements . This time is based on business days for the fulfillment site which in one embodiment may be different than business days for the processing site. Shipping transit time is estimated based on the fulfillment site physical location and the shipping address of the recipient. The shipping transit time is based on business days for the shipping carrier and may be different than business days for the processing site and fulfillment site. In one embodiment after computing the sum of the three data points the system has the number of calendar days required for the order and determines the date that the order must be sent to the processing site in order to be delivered on the specified delivery date.

Presentation and session management logic generates the Web based graphical user interface GUI features described below allowing the end user to view and edit the calendar data contacts data filtered card recommendations and scheduling data. As illustrated in the presentation and session management logic communicates with each of the other functional modules and or communicates directly with the stationery service databases to retrieve the data needed for display within the GUI. Embodiments of the Web based GUI features generated by the presentation and session management logic are set forth below.

In one embodiment each of the functional modules illustrated in exposes an application programming interface API to provide access to data managed by that module. For example the contacts manager exposes an API allowing the calendar service and other modules to access contacts data and vice versa. Alternatively each of the functional modules may access the database s directly.

In one embodiment the calendar service automatically generates calendar events based on the contacts data stored within the contacts database . By way of example the calendar events may include birthdays anniversaries and other significant milestones associated with each of the contacts in the contacts database . In addition the contacts manager stores relationship data identifying the relationship between the user and each of the contacts in the user s contacts database e.g. identifying the user s spouse siblings parents children etc. . The calendar service uses the relationship data to generate calendar events. For example if the relationship data identifies the user s mother and father then the calendar data may associate Mother s Day and Father s Day respectively with those contacts. Similarly if the user is married with children the calendar service may associate his her spouse with Mother s Day or Father s Day and or the user s wedding anniversary.

Once calendar events are scheduled in one embodiment the reminder service automatically generates reminders for upcoming events. For example if a friend s birthday is approaching then the reminder service will notify the user a specified number of days weeks ahead of time so that the user has time to send a card. The specific timing of the reminder notifications may be specified by the end user and stored along with other user preferences within the user database .

In one embodiment the reminders are generated and displayed within a Web based GUI when the user logs in to the online stationery card service see e.g. and or may be sent to the user in the form of an email message or mobile text message. If sent in an email links to the online stationery card service website may be embedded within the message to encourage the user to design a new card see e.g. and associated text .

In one embodiment the recommendation engine generates greeting card stationery recommendations based on the occasion the identity of the contact associated with the occasion and the end user s preferences. For example if a particular contact s birthday is approaching the recommendation engine may recommend certain greeting card styles e.g. modern classical etc. based on the contact s preferences and or the user s preferences. The filtering logic allows the recommendations to be filtered based on specified variables e.g. theme color card format card size number of photos etc. .

The browse region includes a first plurality of selectable hyperlinks to allow the end user to browse greeting cards based on a specified occasion e.g. Birthday Congratulations Anniversary Thank You St. Patrick s Day etc. and a second plurality of selectable hyperlinks to allow the end user to browse greeting cards based on a specified recipient e.g. For Her For Him For Kids . The occasion hyperlinks are dynamically generated based on the current date and in one embodiment the nearest upcoming holiday is placed at the top of the list. As illustrated the region for recipients is subdivided into categories identified by an expandable and contractible icon For Him For Her For Kids . Selecting the icon causes a listing of selectable recipients to appear beneath the expandable and contractible icon. For example selecting the for Kids icon causes a listing of children in the user s contacts database to appear with the user s own children at the top of the list if the user has children .

In one embodiment selecting a particular occasion or recipient from the browse region causes recommendations associated with the selection to appear within the recommendations region . Similarly in response to selecting a particular event from the reminder calendar region causes recommendations associated with the event to appear within the recommendations region . In one embodiment when the user initially logs in to the online stationery card service and arrives at the GUI recommendations are automatically provided for the entry at the top of the user s reminder list .

Additional details associated with the region for reviewing and managing scheduled orders and previously sent orders are provided in . As illustrated a first tab is provided to allow the user to view scheduled card orders and a second tab is provided to allow the end user to view previously sent orders. Upon selecting one of the tabs scheduled or sent cards are displayed below the tab. For example in the sent tab has been selected thereby displaying a set of thumbnail images and associated descriptions of previously sent greeting cards. A see all link is provided to allow the end user to view all scheduled or previously sent cards.

Additional details associated with the recommendations region are provided in . As illustrated the recommendations region includes a plurality of selectable drop down menus for filtering the recommendations including a recipient menu for identifying a particular recipient an occasion menu for identifying a particular occasion a theme menu for selecting a particular theme and a style menu for selecting a particular stationery card style . In response to selections from the drop down menus the recommendation engine with filtering logic shown in responsively filters the set of recommendations displayed for the user. In one embodiment the recipient menu is populated with entries from the user s contacts database.

A set of the users favorite stationery card designs for a particular selected occasion are provided in a region directly beneath the drop down menus . For example if the occasion selected in the occasion menu is birthday then a set of the user s favorite birthday cards is displayed within region .

In one embodiment the recommendations provided to the end user are categorized into groups . In the specific example shown in the groups include a photo card group displaying photo cards only a group of designs which do not require personalization i.e. which can simply be selected and mailed to the end user and new designs provided by the online stationery service. Various other additional groups may be provided while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention. In one embodiment thumbnail images representing a set of exemplary designs from each group are provided with a hyperlink to view additional designs within the group.

In one embodiment the reminder list is broken down by year with each year having its own expandable and contractible icon. The current year is provided at the top and is initially expanded 2009 in the example . Later and previous years are not initially expanded but will expand when selected by the user. In one embodiment only events on the current day or future dates will be shown in the reminder list. The event that is currently selected next or user selected will have a highlight behind it. When a user initially signs up for the stationery card service the reminder list is initially pre populated with holiday reminders so it will never be empty. The user may delete holiday reminders if they want. In one embodiment when an event already has a card or cards scheduled a card scheduled icon or link is provided. Clicking this link will take the user to a Web page showing the details associated with the card stationery order. An add an event button is also provided to enable the user to add a new stationery card event to the reminder list.

As illustrated in one embodiment of the add an event window includes a plurality of data entry fields including an event name field an occasion field a date field a contact name field and a link to change the current reminder scheduling. In the example shown in reminders are scheduled for 2 weeks prior and 2 days prior to the event. Clicking on the change link allows the user to modify this reminder schedule. The occasion data field includes a drop down menu containing a set of predefined occasions birthdays anniversaries etc. and the date field comprises a selectable calendar graphic for selecting a particular date. In one embodiment the selectable calendar graphic is the same or similar to the graphic shown in . As indicated in in one embodiment when a new recipient is entered in the contact name field that recipient is automatically added to the user s contacts database .

Regardless of how the reminder list is prioritized in one embodiment the recommendation engine selects card recommendations for the recommendations region based on the entry at the top of the list. For example if the entry at the top of the list is a birthday for a particular recipient then the recommendations region will contain recommendations for a birthday for that particular recipient e.g. with entries from drop down menus shown in automatically selected .

As illustrated in When the user mouses over a square in the calendar i.e. moves the cursor over a square with the mouse or other cursor control device that has an event in it a small non modal hover window is displayed that shows more details of the event. The event title is on top and the date is beneath. If no card is scheduled No card yet is displayed as shown in but if a card has been scheduled then a Card Scheduled link is provided as shown in . Once again the Card Scheduled link directs the user to an order details Web page containing the details associated with the card order. An edit button e is provided to link the user to the add edit event window shown in which opens with data fields pre populated with existing data. A Delete Reminder button x is also provided which allows the end user to delete the calendar reminder.

As illustrated in if there are multiple events on the same day the mouseover window shows each event on its own line with the date beneath them all. Each event comprises a hyperlink to the Add Edit Event screen for that event . The add another link will open the Add event window .

One embodiment of the online stationery card service allows the user to purchase an online stationery card subscription plan which allows the user to send a specified number of stationery cards for a fixed fee. The plan selected by a given user and the current status of the user s account e.g. number of cards ordered current payment due date etc. is maintained within an accounts database on the online stationery service .

A graphical user interface for selecting among a plurality of different plans is illustrated in . This embodiment provides a plurality of selectable options representing different plans. One option of course is to purchase on a one time basis. Other plans illustrated in includes an option of 3.99 year to purchase unlimited cards at 3.49 an option of 9.99 year to purchase unlimited cards at 2.99 and an option of 29.99 year to purchase unlimited cards at 1.99. Various other additional options may be provided while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention. For example one option not shown allows the user to pay a flat fee for a specified number of cards during the year at no additional charge. A series of data entry fields are provided in which the user may enter credit card or other payment or billing information. If the user does not already have an account with the online stationery card service additional data entry fields are provided to allow the user to establish an account with a new User ID e.g. the user s email address and a password.

An additional filtering region is provided to allow the user to filter the cards in the recommendation region further. Details of one embodiment of the filtering region are provided in . In this embodiment the user may select among a plurality of selection boxes grouped into categories including Theme e.g. humorous sentimental religious Color providing a plurality of color options Card Format e.g. flat folded Card Size e.g. 5 7 5.25 5.25 3.5 5 etc Number of Photos e.g. none or 1 or more and Other e.g. new available as is without personalization best selling recently purchased etc . Selecting among any one or more options in the filtering region causes the filtering logic of the recommendation engine filter the cards provided in the recommendation region based on the selection. For example selecting the 5 7 card size option will cause only cards of this size to be displayed.

In one embodiment clicking on one of the designs within the recommendations region takes the end user to the product Web page for that design and allows the user to personalize and send the design. Mousing over one of the designs within the recommendations region generates a quick view window with additional information related to the design. In addition in one embodiment a pick icon is provided to allow the user to add the design to a my picks region .

In one embodiment when the user clicks on any of the designs within the recommendation region the product Web page for that card is displayed such as that illustrated in . provides a detailed view of the card from the front and provides a detailed view of the inside of the card. The front view window includes a see inside link and the inside view window includes a see front link for moving between the two different views. In addition both views include an add to cart button which will add the design to the user s shopping cart and a personalize button which will take the user to the personalization pages such as those illustrated in .

Upon selection of a continue button the user is taken to the GUI shown in which shows an image of the front of the selected card and an indication of those text regions which are editable. A set of selectable links and are provided at the top of the GUI to jump between the front inside and back of the card respectively. A photos region provides a set of photos which may be added to the card e.g. by clicking and dragging into a designated region . The photos may be local to the user e.g. on the user s hard drive and or may have been previously uploaded to the online stationery card service . A selectable button is provided to add and or remove photos from the set e.g. by highlighting a photo and selecting the button to remove .

In addition a link is provided for uploading a user s signature. In one embodiment selecting the link generates a dialog box which allows the user to move through folders and identify a signature file e.g. a JPEG Bitmap or other signature file type on the user s computer. The signature is stored in the user account database and retrieved for subsequent card personalization. A photo region is provided into which photos from region may be clicked and dragged. The selected photo will then be visually displayed within the photo region .

Once the user has completed personalizing the stationery card design a series of preview pages are generated such as those shown in . A set of selectable links and are provided at the top of the GUI to jump between a preview of the front inside and back of the card respectively. illustrates a preview of the front of the card illustrates a preview of the middle of the card and illustrates a preview of the back of the card . In one embodiment the user is asked to verify the content of each portion of the card prior to completing the purchase. In this is accomplished by a verification check box located adjacent to the preview image of each portion of the card. To complete the order the user must select the verification check box next to each preview image for each card portion.

Throughout the discussion above various details have been omitted to avoid obscuring the pertinent aspects of the invention. For example in an embodiment of the invention in which the user connects to the online stationery service via a Web browser various well known functional modules associated within the presentation and session management logic shown in are executed to receive input process the input and dynamically generate Web pages containing the results. The Web pages described herein may be formatted according to the well known HyperText Markup Language HTML or Extensible HTML XHTML formats and may provide navigation to other Web pages via hypertext links. One embodiment utilizes Dynamic HTML DHTML a collection of technologies used together to create interactive Web sites by using a combination of a static markup language e.g. HTML a client side scripting language e.g. JavaScript a presentation definition language e.g. CSS and the Document Object Model DOM . Of course the underlying principles of the invention are not limited to any particular set of protocols or standards.

In one embodiment the Web server used to implement the embodiments of the invention is an Ngnix Apache web server running on Linux with software programmed in PHP using a MySQL database.

Embodiments of the invention may include various steps as set forth above. The steps may be embodied in machine executable instructions which cause a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform certain steps. Alternatively these steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components.

Elements of the present invention may also be provided as a machine readable medium for storing the machine executable instructions. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards propagation media or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. For example the present invention may be downloaded as a computer program which may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

Throughout the foregoing description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. For example it will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art that the functional modules such as wizards and other logic may be implemented as software hardware or any combination thereof. Accordingly the scope and spirit of the invention should be judged in terms of the claims which follow.

