---

title: Worldwide web registration information processing system
abstract: A World Wide Web registration processing system is disclosed for assisting World Wide Web users in registering at World Wide Web web sites. For each such user, the registration processing system includes a long term repository for the user's web site registration information so that this information can be automatically transferred to a plurality of web sites to which the user may at time to time request to be registered. Further, the registration processing system provides the user with the capability to have a common user identification that may be used for accessing services at a plurality of web sites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903745&OS=08903745&RS=08903745
owner: Acacia Research Group LLC
number: 08903745
owner_city: Frisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120913
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 237 230 filed on Sep. 24 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 032 754 filed on Jan. 10 2005 which is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 411 829 filed on Apr. 10 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 089 224 which is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 884 779 filed Jun. 19 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 823 327 which is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 128 915 filed Aug. 4 1998 now abandoned which is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 595 837 filed Feb. 2 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 790 785 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 008 736 filed Dec. 11 1995 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a system for assisting World Wide Web users in registering at World Wide Web web sites. In particular the present invention provides storage and access to web site registration information provided by a user of the present invention so that upon requesting to register at a web site that cooperates with the present invention the user can request his her web site registration information stored by the present invention to be transmitted to the cooperating web site.

The World Wide Web WWW is a global communications network having a client server model as a paradigm for communications. That is users on client nodes utilizing so called web browsers navigate the WWW to access desired server nodes known as web sites for at least obtaining information from the server nodes such as hypertext audio video virtual reality data etc. For many web sites it is important to those responsible for the design and maintenance of the web sites that they be capable of accurately measuring both the number and types of users accessing their web sites. In particular such measurements may be important in determining fees that can be charged by web site developers for building and maintaining a web site. Further such information may be useful in determining the degree of interest in services and products by web site users. Thus in order to obtain these web site measurements such web sites have begun requesting that each user provide information about himself herself prior to the web site allowing access to web site services. That is such web sites require a user to register at the web site wherein the user is required to establish a user identification user ID and optionally a password with the web site as well as typically provide personal information such as for example the city of residence or family size. However registering at multiple web sites is burdensome for users in that it is a time consuming and b the user is likely to have different user Ids at different web sites thus requiring a user to maintain a list of user Ids and optionally passwords for the web sites to which he she is registered.

Therefore it would be advantageous to alleviate many of the above difficulties by automating the registration process at web sites so that users may register at a single web site and use the information provided at this web sited to more easily register at other web sites.

The present invention is a registration information processing system for the World Wide Web that substantially automates the user registration process at web sites. The registration system of the present invention includes a World Wide Web registration web site wherein a user accessing the World Wide Web can utilize this web site as a repository for registration information so that the user can request this registration information to be transmitted substantially automatically to another web site to which the user desires to register. Furthermore the present invention provides the user with a common user ID and optionally common password that can be used to access a plurality of web sites so that there are fewer web site user IDs and passwords for the user to remember. Additionally the present invention may establish the common user ID and optionally password through user input such that the user may request a candidate user ID and optionally password and if acceptable the candidate user ID becomes the common user ID. However if the candidate user ID is unacceptable e.g. because it is a duplicate of another user s common user ID then the present invention provides the user with one or more alternatives for the common user ID and optionally password that the user may accept or reject. Further note that whenever possible the present invention provides the user with alternative common user Ids wherein the alternatives are derived from the candidate user ID provided by the user.

The registration information processing system of the present invention has a first embodiment using a first system architecture wherein a user need not have any modules specific to the present invention loaded on his her World Wide Web client node. In this embodiment once the user has provided registration information to the registration web site of the present invention when the user subsequently requests to register at a new web site cooperating with the registration process of the present invention then the user provides this new web site with a user ID and optionally password e.g. the above mentioned common user ID for the registration web site of the present invention together with an indication that any further information may be obtained from the registration web site. The new web site subsequently is able to automatically retrieve the user s registration information from the registration web site and register the user at the new web site. In a second embodiment of the present invention having a second architecture World Wide Web client nodes have registration modules for the present invention loaded on them so that these nodes may interact with the registration web site for providing user registration information to cooperating web sites to which the user requests to register. In this second embodiment of the present invention the user s registration information is stored both locally on the user s client node and at the registration web site the web site being used as a backup. Thus when the user desires to register at a new web site the user s registration information is provided to the web site from the registration module residing on the user s client node.

In either embodiment the present invention may also provide a mass registration capability wherein a user may request that the present invention automatically register the user at a plurality of web sites. For example the user may be provided with a capability to search for web sites cooperating with the present invention by for example category and request an automatic registration at multiple web sites substantially simultaneously.

Other features and benefits of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description with the accompanying figures contained hereinafter.

Thus the first embodiment of the present invention may be described as follows. In order for a user to register at one or more third party web sites the user at a WWW client node accesses the World Wide Web and in a first scenario explicitly navigates through the World Wide Web to the registrar web site wherein a registrar web site home page is communicated back to the user s WWW browser . As one skilled in the art will appreciate program modules hereinafter denoted registrar applications output to a World Wide Web network server information in for example a hypertext markup language HTML related to capabilities of the registrar web site in assisting the user in registering at third party web sites . Such outputs from registrar applications are subsequently transmitted via the network server and the network interface to the user s WWW browser in the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP as one skilled in the art will appreciate. Thus upon presentation of the registrar web site home page on the user s WWW client node the user subsequently may request to provide registration information to the registrar web site so that he she can have this information at the registrar web site automatically transferred to a third party web site when the user is requested to register at such a third party web site. Subsequently after the user s request to supply registration information is transmitted to the registrar web site via World Wide Web network interface and network server the registrar applications receive the request and output to the user s WWW browser one or more web pages having fill out forms to be presented to the user via the WWW browser . Thus upon submittal of the filled out forms by the user to the registrar web site more precisely the registrar applications the user s registration information is stored in the user registration information database .

Following the above registration procedure at the registrar web site the user may then substantially automatically register at various third party web sites that are affiliated with the registrar web site in that an agreement has been reached between each such third party web site and the registrar web site for transmitting a user s registration information to the third party web site when for example the user requests such transmittal. Thus assuming the user accesses the third party web site and for example the home page for the third party web site includes a form field allowing the user to specify that the user s registration information is stored and accessible at the registrar web site then the user can submit a response via the World Wide Web to the third party web site indicating that the user s registration information should be obtained from the registrar web site . Thus the third party web site requests and receives the user s registration information from the registrar web site and stores the user s registration information in registration information database directly accessible by the third party web site . Additionally note that when the registrar web site receives a request from the third party web site for user registration information a registrar application records the request for the user s registration information in a registrar access log data base . Thus the registrar web site maintains a log of the third party web sites requesting registration information. Further such third party web sites may periodically provide the registrar web site with information related to the frequency that users registered at the registrar web site have accessed the third party web sites . Therefore by also storing this information for example in the registrar access log the registrar web site is able to determine the frequency and type of access of third party web sites by users.

In a second method of using the first embodiment of the present invention instead of the user explicitly navigating the World Wide Web to the registrar web site for providing registration information the user may instead access a third party web site wherein the home page or registration page for the third party web site includes input fields allowing the user to request that the registrar web site automatically be accessed so that the user can enter web site registration information at the registrar web site and subsequently use the registration information provided to the registrar web site for automatically registering at the third party web site as well as other third party web sites that may be subsequently requested . That is the newly entered registration information is transferred to the third party web site by entering into a registrar specific portion of the registration form for the third party web site a registrar user identification and optionally a password for requesting that the third party web site access the registrar web site to obtain the user s registration information. Thus the user s registration information automatically is communicated to the third party web site without the user explicitly having to navigate the World Wide Web and access the registrar web site to register his her web site registration information.

Note that alternative embodiments are within the scope of the present invention wherein program modules for the present invention are distributed so that there is an executable module provided on the user s WWW client node for communication with the registrar web site as well as with third party web sites that accept registration information from the present invention. In one embodiment of such a distributed architecture for the present invention a registrar registration module is integrated into the user s WWW browser for gathering the user s web site registration information and communicating with the registrar web site as well as cooperating third party web sites at which the user desires to register. Such a registration module may provide the user with easier access to his her registration information since the information resides locally on the user s WWW client node in a persistent nonvolatile storage. Further the registrar registration module may be activated for entering or updating user registration information without the user necessarily being connected to the World Wide Web . Moreover by integrating the registrar registration module into the user s WWW browser the user is presented with an integrated set of functions for registering and accessing third party web sites .

Thus in such distributed architectures after the user has entered registration information into the registrar registration module this module will substantially automatically contact the registrar web site via the World Wide Web and thereby communicate the user s registration information to the registrar web site so that for example the user s registration information may be reliably stored in case there are failures at the user s WWW client node . Thus to access a third party web site that cooperates with the registrar for registering the user once the user has made contact through the World Wide Web with such a third party web site the user transfers his her registration information from the registration module to the third party web site. Further note that in the registration process of the present embodiment whenever the user registers at a third party web site the registrar web site is provided by for example the module with information related to the registration so that the user also has a off site backup copy of all registrations at third party web sites residing at the registrar web site .

Note that other distributed architectures for the present invention are also contemplated wherein the registrar registration module on the user s WWW client node is not integrated with the user s WWW browser . In such an embodiment the user may be faced with a different user interaction technique for the module than that of the WWW browser . However the user is provided with added flexibility in choosing a WWW browser and or using his her existing browser which may not contain as part of the browser the registrar registration module .

In a flowchart is presented describing the steps performed when the user explicitly navigates the World Wide Web to contact the registrar web site for supplying registration information. Accordingly assuming the user contacts the registrar web site in step the web site receives the user s request for information. Subsequently in step the registrar web site responds with a home page describing the registrar services a selection or browsing capability for reviewing third party web sites accepting registrar registrations and a fill out form so that the user may request to proceed if desired with entering registration information at the registrar web site . In step the user determines whether to proceed with the registration process or not. Assuming the user elects to proceed the request to proceed is transferred back to the registrar web site wherein a registrar application examines the response and outputs a fill out form that is transmitted back to the user s WWW browser so that the user may enter his her registration information and submit it to the registrar web site . Thus in step the steps of the flowchart of are performed by the user when entering information into the registration fill out form provided by the registrar web site . Subsequently in step the user initiates the transfer of his her registration information to the registrar web site . Note that the submittal of the registration information may be performed by a conventional electronic transfer through the World Wide Web using any one of various internet protocols or alternatively other techniques for transferring the information to the registrar web site are also contemplated. For example the user may fax a printed copy of a completed registration form to the registrar web site at which point the information may be manually input into the user registration information database . In step upon receiving the user s registration information one or more registrar applications review the user s registration information for determining whether there is enough information supplied to at least uniquely identify the user. If not then in steps and a registrar application s requests additional information from the user and flags the user s information currently stored in the user registration information database indicating that a user response is required to further process the user s information. As an aside note that other feedback loops to the user are contemplated that are related to the loop of steps through . For example it may be the case that the user has supplied sufficient information to be uniquely identifiable at the registrar web site but the user has supplied insufficient information for the registrar web site to supply adequate information to most third party web sites that utilize registrar registration capabilities. Thus a similar feedback loop to loop through may be provided for requesting that the user supply additional information so that a substantial number of third party web sites cooperative with registrar will allow the user to register at them using only the information supplied by the registrar web site .

Referring again to step if a determination is made that sufficient registration information has been received at the registrar web site the user s registration information is stored in the user registration information database step and subsequently a registrar application outputs a request to the user to select a user ID and password that can be at least used to access the user s registration information at the registrar web site step . Assuming as in step that the user submits a user ID and a password to the registrar web site then in step a determination is made by the present invention more particularly a registrar application as to whether the user supplied ID and password is acceptable for uniquely identifying the user. If not then steps through are repeated until an appropriate user ID and password are entered by the user. Thus assuming that an acceptable user ID and password are provided in step the registration information supplied by the user is marked as unverified since there has been no independent confirmation that the user supplied information is accurate. Subsequently in step a registrar application commences to enrich the user s supplied registration information with publicly available information related to the user and to the degree possible i.e. conforming with internet etiquette privacy concerns of users and public policy to verify the user s registration information. Note that by comparing the user supplied information with information about the user from other sources a determination can be made as to the accuracy of the user supplied information. Thus whenever an item of the user supplied information is independently verified then that item is unmarked. Alternatively if discrepancies arise between the user supplied information and other publicly available information about the user then the user may be alerted to these discrepancies and requested to confirm his her initial responses.

Referring now briefly to this flowchart presents the steps a user performs when entering web site registration information into the fill out forms to be submitted to registrar. Accordingly in step the user determines whether to supply basic information i.e. requested by a substantial number of third party web sites as described in step or to supply expanded information i.e. more extensive information about the user so that for example registrar has sufficient user information to register the user at substantially all cooperating third party web sites . Note that at least in one embodiment the basic information supplied in step i.e. the user s name e mail address gender and date of birth is also requested in the forms for expanded information in step . Thus upon filling in at least one field from the fill out forms step presented in either step or the present invention field checks the user s unput for syntactically appropriate responses. Subsequently in step the user inputs a request to terminate entering information in the presently presented fill out form s and in step the user determines whether to enter additional information in either the basic registration information fill out forms or the expanded information fill out forms. If the user indicates that he she desires to enter further registration information then step is again performed. Alternatively the flowchart returns to the invoking program flowchart with the user supplied registration information.

Subsequently once the third party web site has received a response from the user a determination is made as to whether the user is registered at the web site step . If the user is registered then no further processing related to the present invention is required. Alternatively if the user is not registered at the third party web site then a response is transferred from the third party web site through the World Wide Web to the user s WWW browser providing the user with the fill out forms in which the user is requested to enter information for registering at the third party web site. Note that if the third party web site is configured to accept user registration information from the present invention then at least one fill out form related to registering at the third party web site will request information related to registering the user by using the present invention. In particular the third party web site may present the user with a fill out form requesting the user to enter a user ID and optionally a password for the present invention i.e. registrar if the user is registered at the registrar web site . Additionally the presented fill out forms may request the user to indicate whether he she prefers to register at the third party web site by using registrar. Thus assuming the user desires to register at the third party web site a determination is made as to whether the user wishes to register using the present invention or register at the third party web site without using the present invention step . If the user chooses to not use the present invention for registering at the third party web site then the user explicitly supplies registration information for the present third party web site step . Alternatively if the user chooses to use registrar to register then once the present third party web site receives a response from the user indicating the choice to use registrar to register in step the present third party web site sends a request to the registrar web site for registering the user at the registrar web site . Subsequently in step the steps of are performed for registering the user at the registrar web site . Subsequently after registering at the registrar web site in step the user is automatically placed in contact with the present third party web site so that he she submits a registration fill out form to this third party web site a indicating that the user s registration information may be obtained from the registrar web site and b providing a user ID and optionally a password for the registrar web site to be used as identification at the present third party web site. Following this in step the third party web site invokes the program corresponding to to obtain the user s registration data from the registrar web site . Lastly upon verification by the third party web site of the user s registration data the user is granted access to the desired third party web site and or application step .

In a flowchart is presented of the registration data transmission process from the registrar web site to a third party web site . Accordingly in step the third party web site provides the registrar web site with identification of the third party web site the user s registrar user ID and any registrar password. Further in some instances as will be described below the third party web site also supplies the registrar web site with a return path to the user through the World Wide Web . Following this in step a determination is made by the registrar web site as to whether the third party web site supplied information can be authenticated. If not all third party web site information is authenticated then step is encountered wherein a determination is made as to whether to request that the third party web site to resend the information of step . Note that such a determination may be made in one embodiment depending upon whether the third party web site identification is authenticated. That is if the third party web site identification is authenticated then a retry may be allowed. Otherwise no retry may be allowed. Alternatively referring again to step if all information transmitted from the third party web site is authenticated at the registrar web site then step is encountered. In this step the program represented by is performed for supplying the third party web site with registration information related to the user from the user registration information database .

Referring now to the flowchart presented here provides the steps for supplying a present third party web site with registration information from the registrar web site assuming that the present third party web site has requested such information and that the request has been authenticated at the registrar web site . Accordingly in step the registrar web site or more precisely a registrar application performs the steps of for retrieving the user registration information requested by the present third party web site from the user registration information database . Note that a third party web site may request various categories of information from the registrar web site related to the user. In particular a third party web site may request a basic information as discussed in step of b expanded information as discussed in step of c custom information wherein selected fields from the basic and expanded information are provided and d proprietary information wherein one or more additional user related information items may be provided wherein these items have been obtained by the registrar web site by for example enriching and verifying the registration information obtained from the user as in step of .

Following step step is encountered wherein a registration application determines whether the present third party web site requesting user information for a user attempting to register at this third party web site requires that a user ID and optionally password be generated specifically for this third party web site. That is the third party web site may require a user ID and or password that conforms with a format peculiar to the third party web site . Note that to perform the step in at least one embodiment of the present invention information related to the requirements of the present third party web site are stored at the registrar web site . In particular the registrar web site may store a user information request template for each third coordinating party web site having access to user information at the registrar web site such that a registrar application upon identifying a particular third party web site may access a related user information request template for determining what information may be required by this third party web site.

If a user ID and optionally password need not be generated specifically for the requesting third party web site then in step the user information requested by the third party web site is encrypted and in step the encrypted information is sent to the third party web site. Following this in step a registrar application logs an entry or a record in the registrar access log database indicating that registration information for the user has been transmitted to the present third party web site . Subsequently in step a registrar application or more precisely an instantiation thereof waits for an acceptance response from the present third party web site to which the encrypted user information was sent. Note that the response from the present third party web site may include a third party web site specific user ID and optionally password if the user was not previously registered at this third party web site. That is the third party web site may automatically generate at least a user ID if the user was not previously registered at the web site. Alternatively it may be the case that the present third party web site uses the user s registrar registration user ID and password for registering the user at the third party web site . Note that in at least one embodiment for registration processing at a third party web site the use of the registrar user ID does not create ambiguity in the identity of users registering at the third party web site. For example a user seeking access to a cooperating third party web site may be required to indicate that his her user ID and or password is a registrar generated user ID and or password so that the third party web site can process the entered user identification differently from that of users who have registered without using the present invention. Subsequently when an acceptance response from the requesting third party web site is provided to the registrar web site or more precisely a registrar application this response is logged in the registrar access log database in step . Following this latter step in step a determination is made as to whether the response from the present third party web site indicates that the user is now registered at this third party web site. If no such indication is provided then in step a message is sent to the user at the user s WWW client node that registrar cannot register the user at the present third party web site to which the user has requested registration and access. Further the registrar application performing step may also supply the user with a reason as to why the user cannot register through registrar at the present party web site if such a reason was indicated by this third party web site when the response of step was received.

Alternatively if in step it is determined that the user is registered at the present third party web site then in step the program corresponding to the flowchart of is performed for storing at least the user s ID and optionally password for the present third party web site at the registrar web site more precisely in the user registration information database as will be discussed hereinbelow.

Referring again to step of if a registrar application is required to generate a user ID and optionally password for the third party web site then step is next performed wherein a registrar application generates a user ID and optionally password to be transmitted to the third party web site . Subsequently the sequence of steps through are performed. Note that this sequence of steps is substantially the same sequence of steps as steps through . However the response from the present third party web site logged in step may include an indication as to whether the user generated by the registrar application is acceptable to the present third party web site .

Accordingly continuing the discussion of from step if the response from the present third party web site indicates that the user is registered at the desired third party web site then step is performed wherein the program corresponding to the flowchart of is again used to store the user s ID and optionally password for the present third party web site in the user registration information database as in step . Alternatively if in step it is determined that the user is not registered at the present third party web site then in step a determination is made as to whether the generated user registration information i.e. user ID and optionally password step has been rejected by the present third party web site. If so then in step a determination is made as to whether this rejection has occurred less than a predetermined number of times i.e. the sequence of steps through have been iteratively performed less than a predetermined number of times in attempting to register the user at the present third party web site . If the results of the test in step is affirmative then step is again encountered for generating alternative user registration information for the present third party web site. Note that it is an aspect of the present invention that at least in one embodiment such generations produce user IDs that are meaningful to the user and or are related to other web site registration user IDs for the user. Thus in one embodiment of the present invention the step uses the user s registrar user ID as a seed from which to generate a user ID acceptable to the present third party web site . Moreover note that the generation process of step may use various heuristics and third party web site constraints to generate acceptable user IDs.

Alternately if the negative branch from step is followed then the third party web site may have rejected registering the user for any of a number of reasons that may not be able to be alleviated in a timely fashion so that the user can be registered at this third party web site in a short amount of time. Accordingly step is encountered wherein a message is transmitted to the user s WWW client node indicating that registrar cannot currently register the user at the requested third party web site . Further note that if in step it is determined that too many attempts have been made to generate acceptable registration information for the third party web site then step is also encountered.

The flowchart of is representative of the processing variations within the scope of the present invention for supplying a third party web site with registration information. For instance those skilled in the art will appreciate that steps and may have a timer associated with them whereby if there is no response from the third party web site within a predetermined time period then a default response is provided by a registrar application so that one of the steps or is performed as part of the processing when such a timer expires and subsequent steps in the flowchart are performed. Additionally other steps may be inserted for example on the negative branch from step wherein these additional steps attempt to address other anomalies indicated in the acceptance response received in step . For example if the third party web site requests additional user information than what was provided in step then if this additional information is in the user registration information database and the user has indicated that it is permissible to disseminate this information then the additional information may be transmitted to the present third party web site . Also in such a case the transmittal of this additional information is recorded in the registrar access log database .

Referring now to wherein the flowchart for a program is provided for supplying from the user registration information database a requesting third party web site with registration information related to a particular user. Accordingly in step of if the registrar web site has not been previously supplied with an indication as to what type of information is required by the requesting third party web site then a registrar application constructs such a request to be transmitted to the requesting third party web site and subsequently the application may wait for a response from this third party web site. Following step in step it is assumed that the registrar web site has been provided with an indication or specification as to what information the requesting third party web site desires. Thus the registrar application performing step may now determine what registration information is to be transmitted to this third party web site. Note that at least in one embodiment of step the user registration information requested may require validation according to the following criteria 1.1 The type and amount of registration information for a user that the user has indicated is available to be transmitted to a requesting third party web site. 1.2 The type and amount of information the requesting third party web site has contracted with the registrar web site for transmitting regarding a particular user or category of users. 1.3 The registration information available in the user registration information database . Thus as discussed with respect to step of either basic expanded custom or proprietary registration information related to a user is transmitted to the requesting third party web site in step .

Regarding the steps of in step a determination is made as to whether the user has been provided with a user ID optionally password for the third party web site to which the user is attempting to register that is different from the user s registrar user ID and or password. If not then there is nothing additional to store at the registrar web site and the flowchart ends. Alternatively if the decision of step results in a positive answer then step is performed wherein the user s specific user ID and optionally password for this third party web site is stored with other user registration information in the user registration information database . Note the following advantages accrue by storing user registration information at the registrar web site a each user has the convenience of off site storage backup for each such third party web site to which the user is registered and b depending on the registration process at the third party web site it may be expedient for such a web site at least temporarily to automatically contact the registrar web site for retrieving for example the user s third party web site specific user ID upon subsequent user accesses to the third party web site.

Following step in step a determination is made as to whether the third party web site has indicated that it will initiate requests as in b immediately above. If so then no further processing needs to be accomplished here in that the user may enter his her user registrar web site user ID and optionally password when accessing the third party web site. Alternatively if step yields a negative answer then step is performed wherein the registrar web site sends a message to the user at the user s WWW client node providing the user with the ID and optionally password for the third party web site.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention a registrar registration module may be provided at the user s WWW client node . This module whether incorporated into the WWW browser or external to the browser and communicating with the browser through for example a browser port may store locally at the client node registration information for accessing third party web sites to which the user has registered using the present invention. In flowcharts are provided for programs illustrating the processing of this alternative embodiment of the present invention.

In a flowchart is presented of the program for registering at a third party web site when the module is installed on the user s client node .

Describing now the steps of in step the user sends a request to access a third party web site via the user s WWW browser . Subsequently upon receiving the request the accessed third party web site responds with a home page having a registration fill out form step . Assuming that the registration fill out form allows the user to indicate that user registration information may be obtained locally at the client node in step the user indicates on the fill out form that he she desires to register at the third party web site and that his her registration information can be retrieved using the registrar registration module residing on the user s client node . Further note that the user may be required to activate or alert the module so that this module can supply the appropriate user registration information to be communicated to the third party web site . Also note that the home page from the third party web site may indicate the type of information required to register the user and this information may be used either manually or automatically for determining the user registration information stored on the user s client node that will be transmitted to the third party web site. Subsequently in step the user specifies that the registration fill out form is to be submitted to the third party web site. Accordingly the WWW browser communicates with the registrar registration module to supply the registration information to the third party web site. That is the processing performed here includes the steps of which are described herein below. Subsequently in step a message is sent from the registration module to the registrar web site indicating that the user has registered at the third party web site and additionally supplying the registrar web site with any user ID and password specific to the third party web site. Note that by sending this information as well as for example a copy of substantially all of the user s registration information stored locally to the registrar web site the user is provided with an automatic off site backup of his her registration information. Additionally the user may be provided with other advantages by providing his her user registration information to the registrar web site . In particular the registrar web site may enrich the user s registration information with publicly available information on the user and alert the user to discrepancies between the user information and various publicly available records on the user.

Referring now to the flowchart of this flowchart describes the steps performed when supplying a third party web site with registration information retained by the registrar registration module on the user s node. In step the steps of the flowchart of are performed for retrieving the registration information requested by the third party web site. Subsequently in step the registrar registration module packages the accessed registration information for the third party web site together with the user s registrar ID and optionally password for transmittal to the third party web site. Subsequently in step the registration information packaged together in step is encrypted so that in step this encrypted information may be sent securely to the third party web site via the World Wide Web . Following this in step the module logs an entry into a local log on the client node indicating what registration information was sent to the third party web site. Subsequently in step a process may be instantiated to wait for an acceptance response from the third party web site so that when such a response is obtained it may be logged locally at the client node in step .

In one embodiment of the present invention the user may configure the registrar registration module to log all activities with third party web sites and provide the records of this log to the registrar web site . This allows the registrar web site or personnel that maintain the registrar web site to analyze user activities on the World Wide Web . Such analysis may be useful to both registrar users and third party web site personnel in that given a user s World Wide Web activity the registrar web site may suggest additional third party web sites of which the user may not be aware. Further by analyzing the user access logs of registrar users the registrar web site may provide statistics to the third party web sites as to the number and types of users accessing their respective web sites.

Note that in at least one embodiment of the present invention the user is allowed to change his her registrar user ID and or password. However it may be the case that when a user changes his her registrar user ID that the new requested user ID has already been assigned to another registrar user. Thus the registrar web site may respond with a request for further information such as a request for a different user ID from the user wherein when the user submits the additional information the registrar web site again checks to determine if the user is uniquely identifiable. Note that the loop of steps and are provided to represent the iterative process described here of changing the user s user ID. Further note that in some embodiments of the present invention the registrar web site may respond with alternative variations for a new user ID so that the user is not left to guess at a registrar user ID that is acceptable for uniquely identifying the user.

Returning now to step if the user s registration information is stored locally at the user s client node then step is performed instead of the steps . However for simplicity a discussion of the processing performed in step is not described in detail here. Instead a detailed discussion of this step is provided by and the discussion of hereinbelow for changing the registration information at the user s client node and for transmitting the changes to the registrar web site .

Regardless of the branch of processing taken from step eventually step and the subsequent steps of are encountered wherein the present invention updates or alerts third party web sites having previously received user registration information that this information may be outdated. Thus the steps are performed so that the registration information provided to such third party web sites via the present invention is consistent with the newly supplied user registration information. However in at least one embodiment of the present invention prior to providing any newly entered user registration information to the third party web sites such information may be compared or correlated with publicly available information regarding the user that is for example accessible via certain third party web sites . Further the user may request his her newly entered registration information by supplied to only selected web sites to which the user is registered or alternatively the user may request that the newly entered registration information be supplied to all web sites to which the user is registered.

If the user desires to enter further information then step is again encountered and a determination is made once again as to whether the user requests to obtain a registrar user ID. However it is important to note that the steps provided in this flowchart are only an indication of the processing provided by the registrar registration module and the user s browser. In particular since the user interfaces typically used by World Wide Web browsers allow a user to select the fill out form fields to modify the positive branch from step is taken only when the user enters information in a fill out form field indicating that a registrar user ID is requested. Similarly the negative branch from step is taken whenever user information is entered into other fill out form fields unrelated to obtaining a registrar user ID.

Accordingly if the user desires to enter other information than that required to obtain a registrar user ID then from step step is encountered wherein the registrar registration module explicitly requests the user s registrar registration user ID and optionally password . Subsequently in step assuming the user enters a registrar user ID a determination is made as to whether the registrar user ID is valid. Note that this determination is initially made locally at the user s client node without contacting the registrar web site . However in one embodiment of the present invention it is an option that if the registrar user ID entered is not found in the client node then the registrar registration module may inquire of the user as to whether he she desires the registrar web site to be interrogated for the registrar user ID and password and if found download the user s registration information to the user s client node . If no valid registrar user ID is determined in step then the program ends in step . Alternatively if a valid registrar user ID is obtained then in step a determination is made as to whether the user requests to exit the present program and thereby stop supplying registration information. Note that this step is similar to step in that if the user continues to enter registration information in fill out form fields then the negative branch from this step is followed and alternatively if the user for example activates an exit button on the user interface then the positive branch from step will be followed. Accordingly if the negative branch is followed then in step the program of is performed for obtaining new user registration information and subsequently step is encountered or more precisely the user interface is provided that allows the user to request a registrar user ID .

Alternatively if the positive branch is taken from step then step is encountered wherein the registrar registration module transmits or schedules the transmission of any newly entered user registration information that the user desires to be transmitted to the registrar web site for backup storage. Thus in one embodiment of the present invention the step provides the user with the option to discard the registration information provided in step above instead of transmitting this information to the registrar web site .

In a flowchart is presented of the program for obtaining a registrar user ID and optionally password for the embodiment of the present invention wherein the registrar registration module retains the user s registrar user ID and optionally password for automatically providing to third party web sites at which the user requests registration using the present invention. Accordingly in step the registrar registration module requests the user to select a registrar user ID and optionally a password that can be used to access the user s registration information at both the user s client node and at the registrar web site . Assuming that the user enters a user ID and optionally password in step in step the registrar registration module transmits the user selected ID and optionally password to the registrar web site . Subsequently in step a determination is made by the registrar application as to whether the user s selected user ID and optionally password are acceptable to the registrar web site. That is a registrar application accesses the user registration information database to determine if the selected user ID is sufficiently unique. Note that other steps may be performed between steps and . For example the syntax for user IDs and optionally passwords may be checked at the module prior to transmitting the user s selected registration information to the registrar web site .

Continuing with step a determination is made at the registrar web site as to whether the user s selected user ID and optionally password are acceptable to registrar. If so then in step a registration application stores the user s ID and optionally password in the user registration information database . Note that since it is unlikely that any further information related to the present user is stored at the registrar web site the process of storing the user s user ID and optionally password includes creating a new record in the database and marking all remaining fields related to registration information for this user to indicate that these fields are as yet not valid. Following this in step a registrar application transmits a message to the user s WWW browser indicating that the user s selected user ID and optionally password is acceptable to registrar.

Alternatively if the negative path is taken from step then step is encountered wherein a registrar application attempts to generate an acceptable user ID and optionally password as a substitute for the user s proposed user ID and optionally password . Note that in generating alternative registration information the registrar application may use the user supplied information as the basis or seed for generating an acceptable user ID and optionally password to be transmitted back to the user. Accordingly in step once the user is presented with the newly generated registration information on the user s client node the registrar registration module provides the user with the option to accept or reject the generated information. If the user accepts the generated registration information then the flowchart ends. Alternatively if the user rejects this information then in step a further determination is made by the module as to whether the user enters a new user ID and optionally password as an alternative to the generated registration information. If such new user registration information is provided then step and steps thereafter are again performed in attempting to provide a registrar user ID and optionally password to the user. Alternatively if the user indicates in step that no further proposed candidates for a user ID and optionally password will be forthcoming then the flowchart ends without an acceptable registrar user ID being obtained.

The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Further the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Subsequently variation and modification commensurate with the above teachings within the skill and knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiments described hereinabove are further intended to explain the best mode presently known of practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention as such or in other embodiments and with the various modifications required by their particular application or uses of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

