---

title: Automatic contact population
abstract: Systems and methods for populating a contacts directory are disclosed. A method of populating a contacts directory associated with a telephonic device includes placing a call from a first telephonic device to a second telephonic device. Called party contact information associated with the second telephonic device can be received and stored automatically in the contacts directory as a contact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137342&OS=09137342&RS=09137342
owner: Mitel Networks Corporation
number: 09137342
owner_city: Ottawa
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120822
---
 Dual mode or multi mode devices are devices with multiple network connectivity capabilities. Such devices may for example be capable of connecting to mobile phone carrier wireless networks and Wi Fi networks. Supporting multiple networks however can introduce various complexities in using such devices. For example preferred contact network network specific user lookup services e.g. 411 contact reachability and so forth are some complexities that may be introduced by the use of multi mode devices.

Many corporate environments as well as other environments may support a bring your own device model where individuals may bring a personal mobile device to the office for example and connect the personal mobile device to the corporate network using a WiFi connection. A SIP session initiation protocol client can then be used to allow calls to be made to and from the personal mobile device via the corporate PBX private branch exchange voice network.

However while many office phones may include a corporate directory the corporate directory may not be as easily accessible to the personal mobile device. Further efficient management of contacts from the corporate directory may be difficult particularly because corporate contacts using PBX extensions may have no meaning to a PSTN public switched telephone network or wireless carrier network.

From a fixed corporate desk phone a user can program speed dials or other programmable keys for commonly called numbers which can include PSTN numbers and PBX numbers. However when using a personal mobile device assigning speed dials to business users may not be practical particularly since the device may be more often used for personal usage. A user may choose to create contacts for certain co workers with whom the user converses frequently but these contacts are network specific and become useless if communication is attempted outside the corporate PBX network such as from a wireless carrier network.

In many cases a user may use a corporate directory such as via web automated directory or attendant assisted directory for example while at the user s desk to find a fellow employee s contact and then manually dial the number from the mobile device. After the call the user can take the time to add the contact entry manually to the mobile device which may be a time consuming particularly if performed frequently. In many cases the user may not intend to call the person again at least not in the near future and may opt to forgo creation of the contact. However a time may come again where the user wishes to contact the fellow employee again and the number lookup process is repeated.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the compete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

As used herein an application refers to coded instructions executable by a processor which can be used to perform singular or multiple related specific tasks. For example an application may include enterprise software accounting software office suites graphics software and media players. Application does not refer to system software or middleware which manages and integrates a computer s capabilities or to operating systems. Also an application is typically an independently operable application. For example the following description describes an enterprise system for managing other applications. The other applications can be accessed and operated within or from the enterprise system. However the other applications are typically applications which can also be operated independently of the enterprise system or are applications which were developed separately from the enterprise system and subsequently integrated into the enterprise system.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the technology is thereby intended. Additional features and advantages of the technology will be apparent from the detailed description which follows taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which together illustrate by way of example features of the technology.

With the general examples set forth herein it is noted in the present disclosure that when describing the system or the related devices or methods individual or separate descriptions are considered applicable to one other whether or not explicitly discussed in the context of a particular example or embodiment. For example in discussing a method for contact directory population per se other device system and or method embodiments are also included in such discussions and vice versa.

Furthermore various modifications and combinations can be derived from the present disclosure and illustrations and as such the following figures should not be considered limiting.

When a person makes or receives a phone call an entry may be added to the call log. Many devices offer the ability to add the call log entry as a contact in a contacts directory. The process of adding the call log entry as a contact may involve navigating to the call log selecting the correct entry and choosing the option to add the entry as a contact. The user can then edit the contact to add the name of the called or calling party which may be absent from the call log as well as other contact information such as email address birthday or the like.

Systems and methods for populating a contacts directory are disclosed herein for simplifying the process of contact creation and for managing created contacts. An example method of populating a contacts directory associated with a telephonic device includes placing a call from a first telephonic device to a second telephonic device. Called party contact information associated with the second telephonic device can be received and stored automatically in the contacts directory as a contact. Called party identification is not a traditional PSTN telephony offering. Calling Party identification often referred to as caller id identifies incoming calls and associates a name with number. The caller does receive a name associated with the number they are dialing or the party who actually answers the call.

The present technology utilizes a VoIP voice over Internet protocol messaging exchange model that can be used to provide contact information such as name PBX number cell number email address and so forth based on call signaling which may then be used to automatically create a contact entry.

This present technology enables devices to automatically learn contacts based on calls made and received. Depending on the network to which the device is connected additional information can be generated within the learned contacts such as email address DID direct inward dial business name and so forth.

Reference will now be made to . The illustrated embodiment includes a client application on a mobile device and a server application on a PBX server for a communication network. For purposes of the present example a PBX communication network is assumed to have a server component and a PSTN communication network is assumed to not have a server component to illustrate mechanisms applicable to client server solutions or stand alone client solutions. A dual or multi mode device may be connected to many different networks either simultaneously or at varying times throughout the day and a comprehensive solution for contacts management on any network or type of network may be desirable.

The SIP invitation may be forwarded from the PBX server to the called device . The called device can begin ringing and transmit a ringing notification to the PBX server which can in turn transmit the ringing notification to the calling device .

The party at the called device can answer the phone call and the calling party information included in the SIP invitation can be automatically added as a contact to a calling party contacts directory . In this manner the called party need not manually enter the calling party information as a contact and the calling party information becomes available for use in contacting the calling party in the future.

While this example illustrates answering the call in order to create the contact the contact can be created whether the call is answered by the user answered by voice mail is not answered or even if the called device does not ring or otherwise respond to the SIP invitation.

On a PSTN network incoming caller ID may be used to create the contact entry. Contact entries can be created for answered and missed calls. For outgoing calls contacts may not be typically automatically created since the PSTN does not support a server component that can provide the connected party far end name or number. In some examples however a calling party may simply wish to automatically store the called or dialed PSTN phone number in the contacts directory even without the availability of the name or other information of the called party. In such instances the calling device can be configured to automatically store the called number as a nameless contact.

On PBX networks connected party information can enable reporting the name number and other information of the far end i.e. called device to which the calling device is connected. This information can be used to automatically generate contacts on outgoing calls with a name and the dialed number. For incoming calls or missed calls on the PBX network contacts can be generated using caller ID in a similar fashion as the PSTN example or using information available through the PBX server as in the example of . It is to be noted that in some cases on the PBX network a wide variety of information can be included and transmitted as contact information including name and number but also including e mail address alternate phone numbers title or company position other personal information such as birthday hire date etc. or nearly any other information desired to be made available.

In the calling device receives an answer from the called device. The answer can include the connected party or called party contact information such as a name and phone number. The calling device can be configured to automatically add the called party contact information as a contact in a contact directory . While illustrates answering of a phone call in order to receive the called party contact information and create the contact the called party information may also be transmitted when the call is answered by voicemail or when the ringing signal is transmitted from the called device or may be transmitted from the PBX server to the calling device when available on or to the PBX server regardless of ringing or answering of the called device.

It is noted that either the called device or calling device may be any suitable type of device capable of learning contacts. For example both devices may be mobile devices or both may be fixed desk type devices. Also while the devices are illustrated as mobile telephones or desk telephones it is to be understood that any device mobile or fixed capable of connecting to one or more networks and capable of being used for communication with another device using audio video text or any other medium may suitably be used with the present technology.

In the calling party originally manually dialed the called party phone number or extension implying that the calling party remembered the called party extension or obtained it from somewhere such as a web based corporate directory. As an alternate embodiment the calling party may call the network operator and ask for the called party. The network operator information can be stored as a contact but it may be valuable for the calling party to store the called party information even when the network operator a receptionist co worker or anyone else is originally called. In some examples certain numbers such as for a network operator may be precluded from being stored as a contact according to rules included in the contact application on the calling party device. Whether the originally dialed number is used to create a contact entry or not the calling party can receive called party contact information when the called party is connected to the calling party. This ensures that regardless of the method used to contact the called party e.g or click to call from CTI computer telephony integration application etc. will result in the correct contact name and number being added to the calling party s contact directory.

In an alternate implementation of the example illustrated in rather than transferring the call to another PBX connected device the user or calling party may attempt to transfer the call to a PSTN device. The PBX server can invoke the call to the PSTN number such as by using a ring group or EHDU external hot desk user device for example and can send updated connected party information back to the other and of the call i.e. the called device or called party . This can easily be facilitated within the SIP by adding a header extension to the display update or resulting media renegotiation that would occur as a result of the transfer between a work extension and EHDU device.

In one example the PBX server can store ring group information in a PBX datastore . When a user dials a corporate extension the PBX server can attempt to connect the user device to the called device . However the called device may not answer or the called party may have established ring group rules also stored on or accessible to the PBX server such as in the PBX datastore for where to route the call based on a schedule time of day identification of the calling party and so forth. In such cases the PBX can use the ring group information which may include PBX and or PSTN contact information to connect the call to the called party and can also send the PBX and or PSTN contact information to the calling party to update the calling party s contact for the called party.

If a call originating from the calling device hits a personal ring group and contact is made to a PSTN number e.g. cell number a communications director on the PBX server may provide the alternate contact information from the PBX datastore . For example calling 1111 could connect to John Smith s cell number 613 555 1234 by virtue of John s PRG personal ring group . This would create a contact for John Smith with Work Extension 1111 and would then update the contact to include the mobile number 613 555 1234. This allows a contact application to grow its list of reachable numbers across multiple networks. The PBX may report PSTN or other network numbers that result from call forwarding depending on configuration. For example the CFNA call forward no answer to a PSTN cell number could trigger information to be added to the contact whereas CFNA to corporate voicemail would not trigger an update. Optionally if a DID is available the PBX can choose to suppress notification of PSTN numbers contained in the ring group or forwarding configurations. In this scenario the contact will contain the PBX extension and DID of John Smith. The cellular number for John Smith will be learned if the user called or was called by John Smith on his cell phone.

The present technology can utilize a contact application supporting an API application programming interface suite to facilitate searching creating modifying or deleting contacts. An example of such a system is the Android operating system which supports the Android Contacts application. Any other suitable systems and applications may also be used such as those made by Apple Microsoft Nokia Blackberry Samsung and others.

In one embodiment the client contact application can be configured to contain a network profile for the networks for which the phone may be used. For a PBX network the profile may identify for example the corporate DID and email format such as First.Last Domain.Com used by the corporation. Many forms of information can be provided using the present technology. When contacts are created by incoming or outgoing calls across this network a PSTN corporate DID can also be created for the contact along with an email address. For example calling or being called by PBX extension 71234 may result in being connected to John Doe. A contact entry for John Doe can be created with Work Extension 71234 Work Number 613 599 5660p71234 using DID 613 599 5860 and email John.Doe Mitel.Com. In other words roles used by the contact application can be used to create more contact information than may have been received from the called calling party. Dialing or receiving information for a work extension can result in automatic creation of a work number including the DID or dialing or receiving a work number including the DID can result in automatic creation of a work extension in the contact for the called calling party. Likewise the name received from the called calling party can be used to populate an email address instant message IM handle or the like. In some aspects additional information can be obtained from corporate social or other networks to which the device is connected to further populate information in the contact entry based on the called calling party contact information received when the call was placed received.

In one embodiment the PBX server communication director provides the additional contact information email DID cellular number etc. which is then added to the connected party information. This may be provided in addition to the calling party or called party information. SIP extensions can be used to add these parameters in the appropriate SIP headers. This user information can be obtained from a PBX database or some other data repository. The additional numbers or other data can be tagged for example with Work for the DID number Work Ext for the PBX number and Mobil for the cellular number to aid in proper classification of the numbers within the contact entry.

In any of the examples described herein the technology can be configured to determine whether a contact entry for the called or calling party already exists. If an entry does exist a check can be performed for whether called calling party contact information received from the called calling party is cumulative of information already stored in the contacts database or whether there is any additional and or changed information that can be added or changed to update the contact.

The contacts application can use substring matching to attempt to identify existing contacts. Since names may differ from network to network a substring match may often occur. For example a carrier number has J. Smith as the name while a work PBX number may have John Smith . Any suitable known pattern matching can be used to associate the two entries and both the PSTN and PBX number can be added to a same contact entry. Optionally a notification alert can be generated asking the user if it is okay to combine the contact entries or to create a new entry. Notifications are common in mobile device operating systems and notifications have their own notification bar on the main splash screen used to relay events to the user.

Referring to a flow diagram of a method is illustrated for populating a contacts directory associated with a telephonic device. The method includes placing a call from a first telephonic device to a second telephonic device. Galled party contact information associated with the second telephonic device can be received from the second telephone device or from an intermediate device such as a PBX server for example. The called party contact information can be stored automatically in the contacts directory as a contact. The contacts directory can be stored on or be accessible by the first telephonic device. In another implementation the contacts directory can be stored on the intermediate device and can subsequently be accessed by the first telephone device on demand when the user wishes to place a call.

Storing the called party contact information as a contact may include storing the called party contact information as a new contact when a contact for a called party at the second telephonic device does not already exist and or storing the called party contact information to an existing contact when a contact for the called party at the second telephonic device already exists and the called party contact information is more than cumulative of information stored for the contact.

The method can include tagging the contact with a label associated with a network over which the call is placed. In one aspect availability of the contact for placing a second call to the contact may then be dependent on availability of the network over which the call was originally placed. For example if a contact is available to contact over a PBX network but has no other contact methods associated therewith such as PSTN number email address etc. and the first telephonic device is not connected to the PBX network the contact may be not displayed to the user displayed but grayed out or otherwise marked as unavailable or displayed but include a notification when the user attempts to connect that the requisite network for connecting to the contact is unavailable.

In one aspect the method can also include prioritizing the contact among other contacts based on frequency of calls to the contact. For example the more frequently the user calls certain contacts the more prominently those contacts may be placed in an ordered list of contacts. More recent calls may also be prioritized over less recent calls. In one aspect contacts can be organized into groups based on filters. For example contacts accessed used and or to from whom a predetermined minimum number of calls are made or received within a predetermined time period can be classified as frequently used contacts which may then be sorted alphabetically or according to any other desired convention. Less frequently and or unused contacts can be similarly classified grouped sorted etc.

The method can include also generating the contact when the call is placed using a click to call format where the user clicks an object e.g. button image or text to request an immediate connection with another person in real time either by phone call VoIP or text. Thus any suitable method may be used for placing the call and the technology can be used accordingly to store the called party contact information.

Referring to a flow diagram of another method of populating a contacts directory associated with a telephonic device is illustrated in accordance with an example of the present technology. The method can include receiving a phone call at the telephonic device identifying calling party contact information received in connection with the phone call and storing the calling party contact information automatically in the contacts directory as a contact. The method can be performed whether the phone call is received over a PBX network a PSTN network or any other suitable network over which calling party information can be received.

The system may further comprise a second telephonic device configured to connect to the telephone network and to receive a call placed over the telephone network when transferred from the telephonic device the contact generation module being on the second telephonic device and operable to store the party contact information as the contact in the contacts directory on the second telephonic device. This may be performed similarly as described above with regard to .

The system may also include a network identification module operable to add additional profile information to the party contact information when creating the contact based on a rule stored in a rule data store on the telephonic device to enable use of the contact across multiple different types of telephone networks when identification of the telephone network triggers the rule. Thus for example the contact may be created with the work extension and the work DID as has been described.

The system can also is a tagging module configured to tag the contact based on the telephone network used for contacting a party to enable selective availability of the contact information depending on the availability of the telephone network.

The contact generation module can include a user configurable option displayable to the user for automatic creation of contacts for incoming missed and or outgoing calls or any combination thereof.

The system does not require a corporate directory download or other sync operation which may potentially provide many numbers with which the user has no desire to communicate or which are not relevant to the network being used.

The system also enables users to update contact information in another users device simply by calling the other user.

The telephone network can optionally provide alternate network contacts on behalf of the called party such as via a PBX server . If a calling party calls the PBX and the PBX knows the called party has other network contacts e.g. programmed in the corporate directory or in some central data store the PBX can feed these alternate contacts back to the calling party to populate the contact list. This can be done on alerting busy or talk states using a signaling extension e.g. of the SIP protocol and can extend the list of contact options in the mobile device so that the device has alternate networks to try when in this example the PBX network is not available.

The dialing module can enable a user to dial a default or selected number of a listed contact using any known method. If the associated network is not available then the telephonic device may transparently attempt to ring the contact using a listed alternative number an for using an alternative network.

The contact data store can provide a contacts GUI graphical user interface including contacts for the user. The GUI may be configured to visually differentiate e.g. greyed out or simply not displayed numbers on networks not currently accessible e.g. user is away from the office .

The system can perform contact manipulation based on active or available networks. The system may also perform network bridging relates a contact on network A to a contact on network B assuming it is the same contact but different unique id per network for example J. Smith on a PBX with extension 1234 John Smith on the PSTN mobile at 613 219 2502 and John on the global SIP provider with id johnsmith sipservice.com. The contacts can be identified as related based on the name e.g. string comparison a picture of the contact e.g. facial recognition etc. For example facial recognition can be used to group network application contacts email mobile work home Facebook LinkedIn etc. into a single contact. Thus the system enables creating a single contact to manage separate network contact points.

If the call log or call history is used to dial or if the user simply dials the number such as the PBX number for example the system can identify whether the appropriate network is available. If the network is not available the system can perform a reverse lookup into the contact list including masked contacts to determine the next best network to use. Thus if a user dialed a PBX extension but was not actually connected to the PBX the application may find a contact in the phone matching the dialed number find an alternate number e.g a PSTN number and dial that number to the carrier because the PBX is not reachable .

The present technology can also be used as a security feature for corporate networks. When the device is cut off from a given network all contacts on the network may be hidden from view or even removed. The location of the device can dictate what contacts can be accessed as well as the network that can be accessed.

If a calling party is unable to connect to a called party e.g. ringing but no answer voicemail busy etc. the client contact application can suggest alternate numbers stored against the contact. Similarly the PBX can push these alternate or temporary numbers to the device similar to call forwarding except the PBX does not forward the call and instead provides the number to the calling device to manage the call. This feature can be useful for example when the alternate number is a Skype number. The PBX may not be able to forward the call to the Skype account but the client application on the mobile device can handle the operation. In other words the PBX may not have access to the Skype network but the client app on the mobile device may. This can enable cross network call forwarding.

In summary the present technology provides for learning network contacts and can provide a network bridge directory that is capable of associating many contact addresses for the same person into a logical ordering and is capable of completing routing calls even when an inaccessible network ID is attempted. The present technology can provide a convenient and efficient method of growing a list of frequent business contacts within a personal device without manually adding the contacts.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

