---

title: Conveniently injectable or implantable sustained-release antioxidant formulations for therapies of ocular maladies or cancer
abstract: The present embodiments provide for sustained release formulations of antioxidants that are useful in treating afflictions of the eye and tumors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09289428&OS=09289428&RS=09289428
owner: RAMSCOR, INC.
number: 09289428
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120611
---
The present application is a 371 application of International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 041927 filed Jun. 11 2012 which claims priority benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 495 737 filed Jun. 10 2011 and are fully incorporated herein.

The present invention provides for novel liquid and solid sustained release formulations of antioxidants for intraocular and intratumoral injection or implantation as novel methods of treatment of ocular afflictions and tumors cancer.

In Earth s oxygen rich environment life forms have evolved that utilize the energy rich chemistries of oxygen to efficiently operate their life processes. But in doing so they must constantly protect themselves from unwanted damaging free radical oxidative reactions. These reactive oxygen species include superoxide anions hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals that can modify important cellular macromolecules and initiate or accelerate diseases. The formation of reactive oxygen species can occur as part of many cellular processes including mitochondrial respiration immune cell responses cell injury heat radiation or from metabolism of drugs and other chemicals. Reactive oxygen species are thought to be involved in almost all disease processes and the ageing process. For example peroxynitrite is found to be a particularly damaging agent in diabetic retinopathies.

Current evidence reveals a paradox in the manipulation of reactive oxygen species for therapies. For example boosting the levels of reactive oxygen species has proved beneficial in some maladies while scavenging reactive oxygen species with antioxidants is effective in others.

Most of the attempted treatments of ocular afflictions and cancers with antioxidants have used oral administrations of antioxidants with moderate to poor results. The NIH AREDS study completed in 2001 involving high oral doses of antioxidants and zinc showed some inhibition of the progression of macular degeneration but no protective effect on cataract formation. High oral doses of vitamin C have been dismissed as being therapeutic in cancer treatment because even massive oral doses of ascorbates could not yield the therapeutic level achieved by intravenous or intraperitoneal injection. Thus there is a need for minimally invasive injectable or implantable sustained release antioxidant formulations to maintain intraocular or intratumoral therapeutic levels of antioxidants.

This present invention provide for effective novel therapies involving antioxidants to scavenge reactive oxygen species in the eye and in tumors. More specifically the present invention provides for novel liquid and solid sustained release formulations of biocompatible biodegradable excipients containing antioxidants for intraocular or intratumoral injection or implantation as novel methods of treatment of ocular afflictions and cancer. The body and its cells have several mechanisms to control the effects of reactive oxygen species. The general term of such mechanisms is antioxidants. Antioxidants are enzymes substances produced in the body or substances that are found only in food.

An aspect of the present invention provides for the treatment of ocular disorders or tumors cancers by administering formulations for sustained release of antioxidants at or near the site in need of treatment. Such antioxidant treatment can be used alone as a primary therapy or in combination with other therapies to enhance the therapeutic benefits of other medical treatments.

An embodiment of the present invention provides for a method of treating an ocular disorder comprising administering to the eye a sustained release formulation of at least one antioxidant. In some embodiments the ocular disorder is glaucoma cataracts or retinal degeneration. The administration can be done by injection or implantation. For use in the eye the composition is a unit dosage formulation of about 5 l to about 100 l that can administered into the subconjunctiva periocular space retrobulbar in the orbit episclera intracornea intrasclera anterior chamber anterior segment posterior chamber posterior segment vitreous cavity subretinal space suprachorodial segment or intraretinal area of the eye. Liquid or gel formulations upon initial injection maintain monolithic integrity in a liquid or gel state.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for an in situ method of treating a tumor comprising injecting or implanting into the tumor a sustained release formulation of at least one antioxidant.

It should be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular methodology protocols and reagents etc. described herein and as such may vary. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is defined solely by the claims.

As used herein and in the claims the singular forms include the plural reference and vice versa unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The term or is inclusive unless modified for example by either. Other than in the operating examples or where otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients or reaction conditions used herein should be understood as modified in all instances by the term about. 

All patents and other publications identified are expressly incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing for example the methodologies described in such publications that might be used in connection with the present invention. These publications are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing in this regard should be construed as an admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other reason. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of these documents is based on the information available to the applicants and does not constitute any admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of these documents.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as those commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. Although any known methods devices and materials may be used in the practice or testing of the invention the methods devices and materials in this regard are described herein.

The present invention provides for novel liquid and solid sustained release formulations of biocompatible biodegradable excipients containing antioxidants for intraocular and intratumoral injection or implantation as novel methods of treatment of ocular afflictions and cancer. The instant formulations maintain a single monolithic shape at the site of their placement. That is they do not break up as a multitude of smaller droplets or particles that migrate away from their intended point of placement or by virtue of a resultant increase in surface area greatly alter the intended release rate of the antioxidant content. The present antioxidant therapies that are easily manipulated and injected or implanted by qualified medical practitioners. The formulations deliver therapeutic and non toxic levels of antioxidants over the desired extended time frame primarily at the site of implantation. The formulations are both biocompatible and biodegradable and disappear harmlessly after delivering active agent to the desired site. The duration of antioxidant delivery can be as short as a few days to many months and up to one year or longer and the matrix gradually and safely dissipates over time so that there is no need to remove it.

Accumulating evidence points to free radical reactive oxygen species ROS initiating glaucoma cataracts and retinal degradations. Lou 22 Prog. Retin. Eye Res. 657 2003 Guajardo et al. 41 J. Pineal Res. 201 2006 Winkler et al. Mol. Vis. 32 1999 . The evidence also points to ROS being involved in the angiogenesis used by tumor cells to sustain their growth. Roy et al. Free Rad. Bio. Med. 180 2008 Storz 1 Front Biosci. 1881 2005 . Scavenging ROS with nutritional antioxidants has not been particularly successful. Intravenous iv or intraperitoneal ip injections of antioxidants ascorbates have shown promise in restraining tumor growth.

ROS as shown in the following table include superoxide anions hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals 

Additionally it is known that HOand other ROS initiate glaucoma cataracts macular degeneration and retinal degenerations. Cui Lou 57 Exp. Eye Res. 157 1993 Miyoshi et al. 103 P.N.A.S. 1727 2006 Barbazetto et al. 78 Exp. Eye Res. 917 2004 . One important example is proliferative diabetic retinopathy PDR in which excessive levels of glucose in the blood stream lead to ROS that enter the vitreous and damage the retina. One study revealed that the ROS levels in the vitreous of PDR patients ranged from 5 to 35 moles ml. Augustin et al. 12 Eur. J. Ophthalmol. 94 2002 . Those patients who poorly controlled their blood glucose levels had the highest ROS levels. It is also well known that the normal vitreous contains much higher levels of ascorbate 2 mM Takano et al. 16 Current Eye Res. 589 94 1997 than the plasma 0.15 mM Chen et al. 104 P.N.A.S. 8749 2007 . Very likely this elevated level is needed to protect eye tissues from the extraordinary corrosive level of free radical chemistries induced by the eye s exceptional exposure to ultraviolet light and oxygen. Indeed HOinduces VEGF production by the body Stone Collins 9 Endothelium 231 2002 and vascularization is a hallmark of age related macular degeneration AMD . Specific novel antioxidant sustained release formulations provide for effective and cheap therapies for AMD PDR glaucoma and cataracts.

Intratumoral injection of sustained release antioxidant formulations is another application for antioxidant sustained release formulations. There is accumulating evidence that elevated levels of in situ ascorbate will shrink tumors. Chen et al. 102 P.N.A.S. 13604 2005 . Alpha tocopheryl succinate has been found to inhibit a variety of tumor cells. Shiau et al. 281 J. Bio. Chem. 11819 2006 Prasad et al. 22 J. Am. Coll. Nutr. 108 2003 . So too does resveratrol Shakibaei et al. 24 Mol. Nutr. Food Res. 2783 2009 Aggarwal et al. 53 Anticancer Res. 115 2004 .

Without being bound by theory two mechanisms have been proposed for how ascorbate or other antioxidants kill cancer cells. One mechanism involves HOsignaling. Although HOabove certain levels is quite cytotoxic it has become apparent that low levels of HOare intentionally generated by most all living organisms especially vertebrates as signaling messengers for a variety of important cellular functions. See Stone Yang 8 Antioxidants Redox Signaling 243 2006 . Signaling levels of HOhave been shown to induce VEGF production. Stone Collins 9 Endothel. 231 2002 Ushio Fukai Alexander 264 Mol. Cell. Biochem. 85 2004 . It also has been shown that cancer cells secrete high levels of HO up to 0.5 nanomoles 10cells hr to induce angiogenesis for their survival. Ushio Fukai Nakamura 266 Cancer Lett. 37 2008 Statrowski Nathan 51 Cancer Res. 794 1991 . Thus the present embodiments provide for the in situ injection of an antioxidant sustained release formulation that scavenges HOand ROS that will effectively starve the tumor. See e.g. Example 5.

A second proposed mechanism for the ability of ascorbate or other antioxidants to kill cancer cells involves selective HOcytotoxicity. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments have demonstrated that intraperitoneal or intravenous injections of vitamin C that boost plasma levels of ascorbate to 2 mM can selectively kill a wide variety of cancer cells without harming normal cells. Chen et al. 2002. It is proposed that at these high levels ascorbate becomes pro oxidative and acts as a prodrug for the formation of HOlevels selectively toxic to cancer cells. No matter by which mechanism or both antioxidants lead to cancer cell death in situ sustained administrations of antioxidants may prove worthy treatments and the sustained release formulations of the present invention are particularly advantageous to such therapies.

The formulations of this invention provide for the sustained delivery of therapeutic and non toxic levels of antioxidants at the site of the indication i.e. eye or tumor over periods of at least 1 day about 4 days about 1 week several weeks about 1 year or longer inclusive. Liquid formulations are delivered by injection and solid formulations are implanted. These formulations are both biocompatible and biodegradable and disappear harmlessly after the delivery of the antioxidants to the desired site. In some embodiments the formulations are novel combinations of one or more biocompatible and biodegradable excipients with one or more of antioxidants. A strategy employed here is to select or synthesize new antioxidants having low water solubility so that the antioxidant is not flushed away too soon by the aqueous environment of the body. Also low water soluble antioxidants generally have a lipophilicity that aids in their permeating cell membranes.

Non polymeric excipients that provide for sustained release for use in the present invention include but are not limited to at least one biodegradable biocompatible excipient such as benzyl benzoate esters of benzoic acid with straight branched or cyclic chain aliphatic alcohols having one to twenty carbon atoms wherein one of the hydrogen atoms on the aliphatic chain is replaced with a hydroxyl group e.g. such alcohols as methanol ethanol n propanol i propanol n butanol i butanol s butanol t butanol n pentanol i pentanol neo pentanol n hexanol cyclohexanol n heptanol n octonol n nonanol n decanol and the like diethylene glycol dibenzoate triethylene glycol dibenzoate dimethyl sulfone dimethyl sulfozide mono di and tri esters of O acetylcitric acid or O propionylcitric acid or O butyrylcitric acid with Cto Cstraight and branched chain aliphatic alcohols the mono di and tri esters of citric acid with Cto Cstraight and branched chain aliphatic alcohols triethyl citrate TEC acetyl triethyl citrate ATEC tri n butyl citrate acetyl tri n butyl citrate acetyl tri n hexyl citrate butyryl tri n hexyl citrate and or citric acid ethers d alpha tocopherol d l alpha tocopherol d beta tocopherol d l beta tocopherol d eta tocopherol d l eta tocopherol including acetate hemisuccinate nicotinate and succinate PEG ester forms of each of the foregoing tocopheryl acetate tocotrienol isomers and their esters dimethyl sulfone dimethyl sulfoxide or M neutral oil Sasol Germany GmbH Witten Germany . See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 906 136 U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 120 U.S. Pat. No. 6 960 346 U.S. Patent Pub. 2011 0111006.

The non polymeric excipient is typically present in the formulation of the present invention in an amount wherein the amount of the excipient is sufficient to dissolve disperse emulsify or suspend the entire amount of the active agent in the pharmaceutical composition. In some cases the concentration of excipient in the composition can be higher than the concentration of any other constituent in the composition. In some embodiments the excipient itself can be considered an antioxidant i.e. a drug as may be the case for tocopherol or tocopheryl acetate depending on context.

Biocompatible biodegradable polymers that may be used as an excipient to effect sustained release include dibenzoate esters of poly oxyethylene diols of up to about 400 mwt propylene glycol dibenzoate dipropylene glycol dibenzoate tripropylene glycol dibenzoate dibenzoate esters of poly oxypropylene diols of up to about 3000 mwt poly oxypropylene diols of up to about 3000 mwt liquid to semisolid polycarbonate oligomers such as but not limited to those prepared by the polymerization of trimethylene carbonate poly 1 3 propanediol carbonate or the ester exchange polymerization of diethylene carbonate with aliphatic diols or polyoxyalkane diols poly di 1 2 propylene glycol carbonate or poly tri 1 2 propylene glycol carbonate . See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 906 136 U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 120 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 960 346 U.S. Patent Pub. 2011 0111006.

In some embodiments a non polymeric liquid excipient may be mixed with a small amount about 10 of at least one biodegradable biocompatible poly D L lactide PLA and or poly D L lactide co glycolide PLGA polymer wherein the ratio of non polymeric excipient polymer is about 90 10 to about 99 1 inclusive.

Liquid gel and solid sustained release antioxidant formulations can be implanted for example by trocar or by needle introduction. The formulation can be placed into the eye by intraocular such as the chambers such as the anterior segment and posterior segment of the eye see U.S. Pat. No. 7 906 136 intratumoral injection such as into the prostate tumor typically using a procedure similar to that described by Jackson et al. 60 Cancer Res. 4146 2000 or intratumoral injection into inoperable tumors such as gliomas in the brain typically using a procedure similar to that described by Emerich et al. 17 Pharm. Res. 767 2000 . The sustained release antioxidant formulations of the present invention may be implanted or injected at or near the site of action. This may be useful when it is used for example in treating ocular conditions or primary tumors.

The formulations of the present embodiments may provide for sustained release of the antioxidants for at least 4 days at least 7 days at least 14 days at least 20 days at least 30 days at least 40 days at least 50 days at least 60 days at least 112 days at least 365 days or longer inclusive.

Antioxidants suitable for use in the present invention include but are not limited to ascorbic acid Na ascorbate K ascorbate Ca ascorbate Mg ascorbate Zn ascorbate 6 O esters of ascorbic acid with Cto Cstraight branched saturated and unsaturated fatty acids 6 O lauroyl ascorbate 6 O myristoyl ascorbate 6 O oleoyl ascorbate 6 O palmitoyl ascorbate 6 O linoleoyl ascorbate 6 O stearoyl ascorbate 6 O ester of ascorbic acid with d or dl tocopheryl hemisuccinate as shown in 6 O esters of ascorbic acid with reduced glutathione and d or dl tocopherols as shown in reduced glutathione and glutathione ester of reduced glutathione with d or dl tocopherol as shown in d and dl tocopherol isomers and the acetate hemisuccinate nicotinate and succinate PEG ester TPGS derivatives of the foregoing tocopherol isomers superoxide dismutase carotine melatonin trans resveratrol trolox coenzyme Q catalase various peroxidases cysteine ester of cysteine with ethanol HCl salt of the ester of cysteine with ethanol the salt of ascorbic acid with the ester of cysteine with ethanol the d or dl tocopherol hemisuccinate salt of the ester of cysteine with ethanol the ester of cysteine with d or dl tocopherol N acetylcysteine Na K Ca Mg Zn salts of N acetylcysteine ester of N acetyl cysteine with ethanol or d or dl tocopherol l carnitine l carnitine acetate retinal tretinoin timolol lutein thyroxine purroloquinolone pyrroloquinolone probucol captopril desferal Mn uric acid erithorbic acid and its salts lipoic acid lycopene astaxanthin zeaxanthin ferulic acid quercetin eugenol and isoeugenol prostaglandins latanoprost bimatoprost travoprost epicatechin epigallocatechin gallate butylated hydroxytoluene butylated hydroxyanisole rutin fisetin sulfite and bisulfite salts Na K Ca Mg .

It appears that ascorbate reduced glutathione tocopherol and superoxide dismutase are the body s front line antioxidants in the eye and possibly elsewhere in the body. The antioxidant tocopherol is an ideal lipid soluble ligand to attach to ascorbate and or reduced glutathione and or cysteine. These compounds are shown in .

It is contemplated that the described sustained release formulations can also be administrated along with the large array of other therapeutic agents to elicit synergistic enhancements of their therapies. A partial but non limiting list of the therapeutic agents includes Steroidal Anti inflammatories including dexamethasone triamcinolone acetonide Nonsteroidal Anti inflammatories including celcoxib ibuprofin naproxin diclofenac AntiVEGF Agents including bevacizumab ranibizumab Immune Response Moderators including cyclosporin A rapamycin Antimicrotubule Agents including the taxoids vincristine Alkylalating Agents including temolzolomide cisplatin Anti glaucoma Agents including timolol latanoprost Testosterone Reduction including fenasteride dutasteride Anti infective Agents including ciprofloxacin the penicillins Anti virals including acyclovir ganciclovir and Anti HIV Agents including etravirine emtricitabine.

Another factor that may be considered in the selection of antioxidants in the present invention is the known concentrations of indigenous antioxidants in the human eye s vitreous as shown for example in the following table 

In the case of the thiol antioxidant but quite water soluble reduced glutathione there are often no readily available derivatives having the desired low water solubility. Thus novel glutathione derivatives may be employed in the formulations of the present invention. More practical is the use of the active segment in glutathione cysteine. The ethyl ester.HCl of this amino acid is relatively inexpensive and readily available. The free base form of the ethyl ester may be converted it to the salt with tocopheryl hemisuccinic acid which appears to have low water solubility and may be substituted for the tocopherol succinate formulations of some of the present embodiments. Additionally the antioxidants of the present invention include the free acid form of tocopheryl hemi succinate with the free base forms of esters of l cysteine.

Additionally timolol has been used as a beta blocker in the treatment of glaucoma. Recently it has been hypothesized that timolol exerts a direct antioxidant activity protecting human endothelial cells from oxidative stress and that this antioxidant activity is involved in the therapeutic effect of this drug against glaucoma. Izzotti et al. 22 Eye 445 2008 . Thus in some embodiments the sustained release formulation includes timolol as an antioxidant component see e.g. .

Further particular embodiments combine antioxidants or combine antioxidants and additional therapeutic agents in a formulation. Such additional agents include for example an anti inflammatory agent. For example a particular formulation includes timolol combined with a corticosteroid such as dexamethasone or triamcinolone in a tocopherol excipient or a tocopherol citrate excipient. As another example a particular formulation includes timolol and reservatrol in a tocopherol excipient a tocopherol citrate or a citrate PLGA excipient. The sustained release antioxidant formulations may also be used in conjunction with other therapies such as anti cancer treatments.

A disorder is any condition that would benefit from treatment with for example a sustained release antioxidant. This includes chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those pathological conditions which predispose the subject to the disorder in question. Non limiting examples of disorders to be treated herein include tumors or cancers.

Thus an embodiment of the present invention provides for the use of sustained release antioxidant formulations of treating tumors of inhibiting tumor cancer growth prolonging the life of a subject afflicted with a tumor or of reducing one or more symptoms associated with tumors. One aspect of the invention provides a method of treating a tumor cancer in a subject in need of such treatment the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a sustained release antioxidant. Tumor refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation whether malignant or benign and all pre cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues.

 Treat treatment treating or amelioration refer to therapeutic treatments wherein the object is to reverse alleviate ameliorate inhibit slow down or stop the progression or severity of a condition associated with a disease or disorder. The term treating includes reducing or alleviating at least one adverse effect or symptom of a condition disease or disorder associated with a disorder such as but not limited to ocular edema or a cancer. Treatment is generally effective if one or more symptoms or clinical markers are reduced. Alternatively treatment is effective if the progression of a disease is reduced or halted. That is treatment includes not just the improvement of symptoms or markers but also a cessation of at least slowing of progress or worsening of symptoms that would be expected in absence of treatment. Beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of one or more symptom s diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. The term treatment of a disease also includes providing relief from the symptoms or side effects of the disease including palliative treatment .

A subject as used herein refers to a mammal or bird and mammal includes a human. Examples of subjects include humans non human primates rodents domestic livestock dogs cats or birds. Individuals and patients are also subjects herein.

In general the goal of treatment is reducing the size of a tumor or level of an antigen or inhibiting the activity of a target as measured using a suitable in vitro cellular or in vivo assay. In particular decreasing the biological activity of a target antigen or tumor as measured using a suitable in vitro cellular or in vivo assay which will usually depend on the target involved by at least 5 10 25 50 60 70 80 or 90 or 100 inclusive as compared with an equivalent untreated control. A decrease refers to a statistically significant decrease. For the avoidance of doubt a decrease will be at least 5 relative to a reference such as at least 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or more up to and including 100 inclusive. Reduce or inhibit can refer to for example the symptoms of the disorder being treated such as the presence or size of the primary tumor or a reduction in ocular pressure.

The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within a range of concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed e.g. injectable liquid or gel or implantable solid. For any antioxindant s used in the method of the invention the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays.

To test the sustained release formulations of the invention for their ability to treat tumors in vivo tumors can be explanted into nude mice i.e. athymic mice . Various xenograft models are known in the art. After the tumors are established in mice the sustained release antioxidant formulations are administered to the mice in order to test for whether the agents can diminish the tumors or prolong median survival of the animals.

An effective amount as used herein is any amount that is sufficient either to promote the occurrence of a desired outcome or condition or to reduce or inhibit the occurrence of an undesired outcome or condition. In some instances a desired outcome or condition is an ideal that represents one end of a spectrum of possible outcomes or conditions. In such instances an effective amount is any amount associated with an outcome or condition that is closer to the desired ideal than would be achieved or observed without the effective amount. Thus an effective amount promotes the occurrence of a desired outcome or condition but it need not achieve an ultimate endpoint.

In some embodiments the subject has cancer or is at risk of having cancer. A cancer as used herein refers to an uncontrolled growth of cells which interferes with the normal functioning of the bodily organs and systems. A subject that has a cancer is a subject having objectively measurable cancer cells present in the subject s body. A subject at risk of having a cancer is a subject that is predisposed to develop a cancer. Such a subject can include for example a subject with a family history of or a genetic predisposition toward developing a cancer. A subject at risk of having a cancer also can include a subject with a known or suspected exposure to a cancer causing agent.

Cancers include but are not limited to basal cell carcinoma biliary tract cancer bladder cancer bone cancer brain and CNS cancer breast cancer cervical cancer choriocarcinoma colon and rectum cancer connective tissue cancer cancer of the digestive system endometrial cancer esophageal cancer eye cancer cancer of the head and neck gastric cancer intra epithelial neoplasm kidney cancer larynx cancer leukemia liver cancer lung cancer e.g. small cell and non small cell lymphoma including Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s lymphoma melanoma myeloma neuroblastoma oral cavity cancer e.g. lip tongue mouth and pharynx ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma rectal cancer cancer of the respiratory system sarcoma skin cancer stomach cancer testicular cancer thyroid cancer uterine cancer cancer of the urinary system as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas. Additionally the cancers to be treated may be refractory cancers.

The formulations and methods of the invention in certain instances may be useful for replacing existing surgical procedures or drug therapies although the present invention is also useful in improving the efficacy of existing therapies for treating such conditions. Accordingly combination therapy may be used to treat the subjects that are undergoing or that will undergo a treatment for inter alia eye disease or tumor cancer. For example the agents of the present invention can be administered in conjunction with anti microbial agents or anti proliferative agents. The agents of the invention also can be administered in conjunction with other immunotherapies such as with antigens adjuvants immunomodulators or passive immune therapy with antibodies. The agents of the invention also can be administered in conjunction with nondrug treatments such as surgery radiation therapy or chemotherapy. The other therapy may be administered before concurrent with or after treatment with the agents of the invention. There may also be a delay of several hours days and in some instances weeks between the administration of the different treatments such that the agents of the invention may be administered before or after the other treatment.

In some embodiments the method according to this aspect of the invention further involves administering to the subject an anti tumor medicament. As used herein an anti tumor medicament or equivalently a cancer medicament refers to an agent which is administered to a subject for the purpose of treating a cancer. As used herein treating cancer includes preventing the development of a cancer reducing the symptoms of cancer and or inhibiting the growth of an established cancer. The term anti cancer therapy refers to a therapy useful in treating cancer. Examples of anti cancer therapeutic agents include but are not limited to e.g. surgery chemotherapeutic agents growth inhibitory agents cytotoxic agents agents used in radiation therapy anti angiogenesis agents apoptotic agents anti tubulin agents and other agents to treat cancer. In other aspects the cancer medicament is administered to a subject at risk of developing a cancer for the purpose of reducing the risk of developing the cancer.

Various types of medicaments for the treatment of cancer are described herein or are otherwise known in the art. Cancer medicaments are typically classified as chemotherapeutic agents immunotherapeutic agents cancer vaccines hormone therapy and biological response modifiers. Additionally the methods of the invention are intended to embrace the use of more than one cancer medicament along with the sustained release antioxidants of the present invention. As an example where appropriate the sustained release antioxidant formulation can be administered with a both a chemotherapeutic agent and an immunotherapeutic agent. Alternatively the cancer medicament can embrace an immunotherapeutic agent and a cancer vaccine or a chemotherapeutic agent and a cancer vaccine or a chemotherapeutic agent an immunotherapeutic agent and a cancer vaccine all administered to one subject for the purpose of treating a subject having a cancer or at risk of developing a cancer.

Cancer medicaments function in a variety of ways. Some cancer medicaments work by targeting physiological mechanisms that are specific to tumor cells. Examples include the targeting of specific genes and their gene products i.e. proteins primarily which are mutated in cancers. Such genes include but are not limited to oncogenes e.g. Ras Her2 bcl 2 tumor suppressor genes e.g. EGF p53 Rb and cell cycle targets e.g. CDK4 p21 telomerase . Cancer medicaments can alternately target signal transduction pathways and molecular mechanisms which are altered in cancer cells. Targeting of cancer cells via the epitopes expressed on their cell surface is accomplished through the use of monoclonal antibodies. This latter type of cancer medicament is generally referred to as immunotherapy.

For example the agent may be administered together with any one or more of the chemotherapeutic drugs known to those of skill in the art of oncology. A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 see e.g. Agnew 33 Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 183 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine Adriamycin doxorubicin and morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenishes such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Prods. Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes e.g. T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. T paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. A a Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel Celgene Corp. and T doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil G gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin oxaliplatin and carboplatin vinblastine platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine N vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin X capecitabine ibandronate C irinotecan CPT 11 including the treatment regimen of irinotecan with 5 FU and leucovorin topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine combretastatin leucovorin LV oxaliplatin including the oxaliplatin treatment regimen FOLFOX lapatinib Tykerb inhibitors of PKC alpha Raf H Ras EGFR e.g. erlotinib Tarceva and VEGF A that reduce cell proliferation and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above and all approved and experimental anti cancer agents listed in WO 2005 017107. The agent can be administered in combination with 1 2 3 or more of these agents e.g. in a standard chemotherapeutic regimen.

Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including N tamoxifen raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and F toremifene aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide M megestrol acetate A exemestane formestanie fadrozole R vorozole F letrozole and A anastrozole and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in abherant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras ribozymes such as a VEGF expression inhibitor e.g. A ribozyme and a HER2 expression inhibitor immunotherapies such as P aldesleukin rIL 2 A DNA based immunotherapic L IL 2 gene therapy vaccines such as Vaxid DNA vaccine L camptothecin topoisomerase 1 inhibitor abarelix gonadotropin releasing hormone antagonist and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of these.

Additional chemotherapeutic agents which are currently in development or in use in a clinical setting include without limitation 5 FU Enhancer 9 AC AG2037 AG3340 Aggrecanase Inhibitor Aminoglutethimide Amsacrine m AMSA Angiogenesis Inhibitor Anti VEGF Asparaginase Azacitidine Batimastat BB94 BAY 12 9566 BCH 4556 Bis Naphtalimide Busulfan Capecitabine Carboplatin Carmustaine Polifepr Osan cdk4 cdk2 inhibitors Chlorombucil CI 994 Cisplatin Cladribine CS 682 Cytarabine HCl D2163 Dactinomycin Daunorubicin HCl DepoCyt Dexifosamide Docetaxel Dolastain Doxifluridine Doxorubicin DX8951f E 7070 EGFR Epirubicin Erythropoietin Estramustine phosphate sodium Etoposide VP16 213 Farnesyl Transferase Inhibitor FK 317 Flavopiridol Floxuridine Fludarabine Fluorouracil 5 FU Flutamide Fragyline Gemcitabine Hexamethylmelamine HMM Hydroxyurea hydroxycarbamide Ifosfamide Interferon Alfa 2a Interferon Alfa 2b Interleukin 2 Irinotecan ISI 641 Krestin Lemonal DP 2202 Leuprolide acetate LHRH releasing factor analogue Levamisole LiGLA lithium gamma linolenate Lodine Seeds Lometexol Lomustine CCNU Marimistat Mechlorethamine HCl nitrogen mustard Megestrol acetate Meglamine GLA Mercaptopurine Mesna Mitoguazone methyl GAG methyl glyoxal bis guanylhydrazone MGBG Mitotane o.p DDD Mitoxantrone Mitoxantrone HCl MMI 270 MMP MTA LY 231514 Octreotide ODN 698 OK 432 Oral Platinum Oral Taxoid Paclitaxel T PARP Inhibitors PD 183805 Pentostatin 2 deoxycoformycin PKC 412 Plicamycin Procarbazine HCl PSC 833 Ralitrexed RAS Famesyl Transferase Inhibitor RAS Oncogene Inhibitor Semustine methyl CCNU Streptozocin Suramin Tamoxifen citrate Taxane Analog Temozolomide Teniposide VM 26 Thioguanine Thiotepa Topotecan Tyrosine Kinase UFT Tegafur Uracil Valrubicin VEGF b FGF Inhibitors Vinblastine sulfate Vindesine sulfate VX 710 VX 853 YM 116 ZD 0101 ZD 0473 Anormed ZD 1839 ZD 9331. Biological agents include for example antibody derived agents RNAi ribozymes cytokines chemokines ligands or vaccines.

Other agents with which the sustained release antioxidants can be administered include biologics such as monoclonal antibodies including Herceptin trastuzumab against the HER2 antigen Avastin bevacizumab against VEGF antibodies to the EGF receptor such as Erbitux cetuximab or an anti FGF mAb as well as small molecule anti angiogenic or EGF receptor antagonist drugs such as I gefitinib and Tarceva erlotinib or antagonists e.g. neutralizing antibodies that bind to one or more of the following targets ErbB2 ErbB3 ErbB4 PDGFR beta BlyS APRIL BCMA or VEGF receptor s TRAIL Apo2. In addition the agent can be administered together with any form of radiation therapy including external beam radiation intensity modulated radiation therapy IMRT and any form of radiosurgery including Gamma Knife Cyberknife Linac and interstitial radiation e.g. implanted radioactive seeds GliaSite balloon . In one embodiment the sustained release antioxidant with or without additional agents is administered during a surgical procedure such as for example during the removal of a tumor or a tumor biopsy.

Examples of angiogenic inhibitors that can be used in combination with the CEACAM1 inhibitors such as recombinant anti CEACAM1 antibodies and portions thereof described herein include but are not limited to direct angiogenesis inhibitors Angiostatin Bevacizumab Avastin Arresten Canstatin Combretastatin Endostatin NM 3 Thrombospondin Tumstatin 2 methoxyestradiol cetuximab Erbitux panitumumab Vectibix trastuzumab Herceptin and Vitaxin and indirect angiogenesis inhibitors ZD1839 Iressa ZD6474 OSI774 Tarceva CI1033 PKI1666 IMC225 Erbitux PTK787 SU6668 SU11248 Herceptin and IFN C celecoxib T Thalidomide and IFN . In some embodiments the angiogenesis inhibitors for use in the methods described herein include but are not limited to small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors TKIs of multiple pro angiogenic growth factor receptors. The three TKIs that are currently approved as anti cancer therapies are erlotinib Tarceva sorafenib Nexavar and sunitinib Sutent inhibitors of mTOR mammalian target of rapamycin such as temsirolimus Toricel bortezomib Velcade thalidomide Thalomid and Doxycyclin. anti angiogenic factors such as alpha 2 antiplasmin fragment angiostatin plasminogen fragment antiangiogenic antithrombin III cartilage derived inhibitor CDI CD59 complement fragment endostatin collagen XVIII fragment fibronectin fragment gro beta a C X C chemokine heparinases heparin hexasaccharide fragment human chorionic gonadotropin hCG interferon alpha beta gamma interferon inducible protein IP 10 interleukin 12 kringle 5 plasminogen fragment beta thromboglobulin EGF fragment VEGF inhibitor endostatin fibronection 45 kD fragment high molecular weight kininogen domain 5 NK1 NK2 NK3 fragments of HGF PF 4 serpin proteinase inhibitor 8 TGF beta 1 thrombospondin 1 prosaposin p53 angioarrestin metalloproteinase inhibitors TIMPs 2 Methoxyestradiol placental ribonuclease inhibitor plasminogen activator inhibitor prolactin 16 kD fragment proliferin related protein PRP retinoids tetrahydrocortisol S transforming growth factor beta TGF beta vasculostatin and vasostatin calreticulin fragment . pamidronate thalidomide TNP470 the bisphosphonate family such as amino bisphosphonate zoledronic acid. bombesin gastrin releasing peptide GRP antagonists such as RC 3095 and RC 394041 Bajol et. al. 90 British J. Cancer 245 2004 anti VEGF peptide RRKRRR dRK6 Yoo 174 J. Immunol. 5846 2005 .

The agents of the invention also are used with nondrug treatments for cancer such as with surgical procedures to remove the cancer mass chemotherapy or radiation therapy. The nondrug therapy may be administered before concurrent with or after treatment with the agents of the invention. There may also be a delay of several hours days and in some instances weeks between the administration of the different treatments such that the agents of the invention may be administered before or after the other treatment.

Other cancer medicaments target cells other than cancer cells. For example some medicaments prime the immune system to attack tumor cells i.e. cancer vaccines . Still other medicaments called angiogenesis inhibitors function by attacking the blood supply of solid tumors. Because the most malignant cancers are able to metastasize i.e. exit the primary tumor site and seed a distal tissue thereby forming a secondary tumor medicaments that impede this metastasis are also useful in the treatment of cancer. Angiogenesis inhibitors include basic FGF b FGF VEGF angiopoietins angiostatin endostatin TNF TNP 470 thrombospondin 1 platelet factor 4 CAI and certain members of the integrin family of proteins. One category of this type of medicament is a metalloproteinase inhibitor which inhibits the enzymes used by the cancer cells to exist the primary tumor site and extravasate into another tissue.

Immunotherapeutic agents are medicaments which derive from antibodies or antibody fragments which specifically bind or recognize a cancer antigen. The goal of immunotherapy is to augment a patient s immune response to an established tumor. One method of immunotherapy includes the use of adjuvants. Adjuvant substances derived from microorganisms such as bacillus Calmette Gu rin heighten the immune response and enhance resistance to tumors in animals. Additional examples of cancer immunotherapies which are currently being used or which are in development include but are not limited to R rituximab and IDEC C2B8 rituximab anti CD20 Mab Panorex Edrecolomab 3622W94 anti EGP40 17 1A pancarcinoma antigen on adenocarcinomas H anti Her2 Anti EGFr BEC2 anti idiotypic GDepitope OR oregovomab MAb B43.13 anti idiotypic CA125 4B5 Anti VEGF RhuMAb MDX 210 anti HER 2 MDX 22 MDX 220 MDX 447 MDX 260 anti GD 2 Quadramet CYT 424 IDEC Y2B8 O MAb Lym 1 SMART M195 radiolabeled MAb A tretinoin LDP 03 anti CAMPATH ior t6 anti CD6 MDX 11 OV103 Z daclizumab anti Tac MAb anti IL 2 receptor M 2 M 1 CEA CIDE labetuzumab P radiolabeled MAb NovoMAb G2 TNT anti histone Gliomab H GNI 250 EMD 72000 LymphoCide epratuzumab anti CD22 MAb CMA 676 Monopharm C ior egf r3 ior c5 anti FLK 2 SMART 1D10 SMART ABL 364 and IRAIT CEA.

As used herein the terms tumor antigen and cancer antigen are used interchangeably to refer to antigens which are differentially expressed by cancer cells and can thereby be exploited in order to target cancer cells. Cancer antigens are antigens which can potentially stimulate apparently tumor specific immune responses. Some of these antigens are encoded although not necessarily expressed by normal cells. These antigens can be characterized as those which are normally silent i.e. not expressed in normal cells those that are expressed only at certain stages of differentiation and those that are temporally expressed such as embryonic and fetal antigens. Other cancer antigens are encoded by mutant cellular genes such as oncogenes e.g. activated ras oncogene suppressor genes e.g. mutant p53 fusion proteins resulting from internal deletions or chromosomal translocations. Still other cancer antigens can be encoded by viral genes such as those carried on RNA and DNA tumor viruses.

In some embodiments the treatment with sustained release antioxidants can be accompanied with administering to the subject a cytokine. A cytokine refers to any of a diverse group of soluble proteins and peptides which act as humoral regulators at nano to picomolar concentrations and which either under normal or pathological conditions modulate the functional activities of individual cells and tissues. These proteins also mediate interactions between cells directly and regulate processes taking place in the extracellular environment. Examples of cytokines include but are not limited to interleukins IL 1 IL 2 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 10 IL 12 IL 15 IL 18 granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF interferons including interferon alpha IFN interferon beta IFN and interferon gamma IFN tumor necrosis factor TNF transforming growth factor beta TGF FLT 3 ligand and CD40 ligand.

Alternatively and as indicated by medical condition the treatment with sustained release antioxidants further involves administering to the subject an antibacterial antiviral antimycobial antifungal antiparasitic or other antiinfective medicament.

By radiation therapy is meant the use of directed gamma rays or beta rays to induce sufficient damage to a cell so as to limit its ability to function normally or to destroy the cell altogether. It will be appreciated that there will be many ways known in the art to determine the dosage and duration of treatment. Typical treatments are given as a one time administration and typical dosages range from 10 to 200 units Grays per day.

As will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art the appropriate doses of antioxidants with or without additional agents will be generally around those already employed in clinical therapies e.g. where the chemotherapeutics are administered alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutics. Variation in dosage will likely occur depending on the condition being treated. The physician administering treatment will be able to determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject.

 Administering the sustained release antioxidant of the present invention may be accomplished by any means known to the skilled artisan. Injection of liquid formulations into the eye is achieved via an injection needle having a relatively small gauge typically 25 gauge 27 gauge 28 gauge 30 gauge 31 gauge or smaller. Solid implants can be administered via trocar needle trocar or other methods known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 906 136 U.S. Pat. No. 5 869 079 U.S. Pat. No. 7 625 582. Surgical implantation into the eye is known in the art as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 699 493 U.S. Pat. No. 6 726 918 U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 313 U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 072 U.S. Pat. No. 5 766 242 U.S. Pat. No. 5 443 505 U.S. Pat. No. 5 164 188 U.S. Pat. No. 4 997 652 U.S. Pat. No. 4 853 224.

Pharmaceutical formulations may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing the antioxidant s into association with the biocompatible bioerodable excipients of the present invention. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing the antioxidant s into association with a liquid excipient a finely divided solid excipient or both and then if necessary shaping the product. Formulations for injection or implantation may be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers.

A composition consisting of antioxidants and biocompatible biodegradable sustained release excipients was formulated using potent commercially available USP quality antioxidants for ocular and tumor therapies. The formulation contained the following five antioxidants or their derivatives having low enough aqueous solubility to yield sustained release of therapeutic amounts 

Tocopheryl acetate Vitamin E acetate USP grade was Purchased from Letco Medical Decatur Ala. . For in vivo study Vitamin E acetate 25 L or 50 L was injected into the posterior chambers of New Zealand White Rabbits. Vitreous samples were withdrawn weekly. Concentrations of tocopheryl acetate were determined using Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometer LC MS MS Mass Spectrometer API 3200 system from AB Sciex and LC DGU 20AD from Shimazdu. The results are shown in .

Resveratrol also called 3 5 4 trihydroxy trans stilbene trans 3 5 4 Trihydroxystilbene 3 4 5 Stilbenetriol trans Resveratrol E 5 p Hydroxystyryl resorcinol and E 5 4 hydroxystyryl benzene 1 3 diol is a stilbenoid which is a type of natural phenol and a phytoalexin produced naturally by several plants apparently to repel pathogens such as bacteria or fungi. Resveratrol is also found in the skin of red grapes and in other fruits. Resveratrol has also been produced by chemical synthesis or by biotechnological synthesis metabolic engineered microorganisms and is sold as a nutritional supplement derived primarily from Japanese knotweed. In animal experiments anti cancer anti inflammatory blood sugar lowering and other beneficial cardiovascular effects of resveratrol have been reported.

Formulations comprising resveratrol were prepared by mixing by stirring one portion of Resveratrol with nine portions of excipients shown below 

Miglyol neutral oils are clear slightly yellow esters of saturated coconut and palmkernal oil derived caprylic and capric fatty acids and glycerin or propylene glycol Miglyol 840 . More specifically Miglyol 810 and 812 neutral oils are caprylic capric triglyceride Miglyol 818 is caprylic capric linoleic triglyceride note that linoleic acid has antioxidant properties Miglyol 829 is caprylic capric succinic triglyceride Miglyol 840 is propylene glycol dicaprylate dicaprate.

For in vitro release study aliquots of 25 L or 10 L of were placed in a 20 mL glass vial then 10 ml of 0.9 saline was added and the vial incubated at 37 C. At each time point a 5 mL of sample was withdrawn from the vial and its volume replaced with 5 mL of 0.9 saline to maintain infinite sink conditions. Resveratrol concentrations were determined using HPLC Aliance Waters Corp . The results are shown in .

Formulations consisting of more than one antioxidant or antioxidant and steroid were made by mixing components as follows.

A 10 L unit dose of either formulation 1 or formulation 2 was injected into the eyes of two rabbits and the concentration of timolol or dexamethasone dex remaining in the eye tested at 7 days and 14 days thereafter. Results average are shown in . A 50 L unit dose was injected into the vitreous of two rabbit s eyes and the concentrations of active agent detected 7 days thereafter and averaged. Timalol was detected at 8.93 g mL Dex was detected at 2.82 g mL.

A formulation consisting of 20 timolol maleate 10 Reservatrol 70 1 1 ATEC EA was prepared by mixing. A unit dose of 50 L was injected into the vitreous of two rabbit eyes and Reservatrol was detected at 0.64 g mL average 7 days thereafter.

A mouse model was used to study the in vivo effect of sustained release antioxidant formulations on melanoma tumors. Mouse B16 melanoma Cell lines were obtained from NCI Frederick Md. C57 Mice were obtained from Simonsen Laboratories in Gilroy Calif. Anesthesia was Ketamine Xylazine Acepromacine 1 1 0.03 mixture. C57 cell suspension and 1 1 mm tumor pieces were preserved in 90 Fetal Bovine Serum and 10 DMSO in liquid nitrogen. Tumor was also maintained by in vivo serial subcutaneous passage.

Mice of either sex weighing 16 18 grams were anesthetized with the ketamine mixture. Subcutaneous implantation of the B16 suspension 100 ul of 2 10 ml or solid tumor piece were performed in the back or nape of the mouse. Tumors were treated when tumor reached the average size of 6 6 mm in diameter and weighed approximately 0.6 0.8 grams in 7 10 days.

Treatment consisted of a single intratumoral implantation of semi solid drug formulations. Each formulation consisted of 2 mg of active pharmaceutical ingredient API either Resveratrol Astaxanthin or Melatonin in either tocopherol acetate EA benzyl benzoate BB or acetyltriethyl citrate ATEC excipients all Sigma Chemical . The ratio of API and excipient was 80 20 by weight.

Untreated animals lived on the average 3.5 to 4 weeks after implantation at which time the tumor weighed approximately 30 40 grams and measured greater than 1.75 1.75 cm.

In comparison all the antioxidant treatment groups i.e. all three antioxidants in all three excipients showed definite antitumor activities in which one single administration of antioxidant exhibited anti tumor efficacy. Changes observed with astaxanthin were most dramatic. The tumor stopped growing immediately after the single treatment and peeling of the overlying skin surface and beginning ulceration appeared in about one week. Shrinkage of the tumor continued and was completely resolved clinically by 5 7 weeks. The animals remained active and continued to gain weight until termination of the experiment on day 90.

The following table compares the different formulations of astaxanthin Ast in sustained release excipient and their tumor effectiveness 

Modifications of the above described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to those of ordinary skill in the surgical pharmaceutical or related arts are intended to be within the scope of the appended claims.

