---

title: Typed relevance scores in an identity resolution system
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for configuring an identity resolution system to support distinct relevance types. Identity records are accessed that are assigned relevance scores of distinct relevance types. Upon determining that the identity records refer to a common individual, the identity records are resolved into an entity representing the common individual. Relevance scores of the distinct relevance types are then determined for the entity, based on the identity records.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856144&OS=08856144&RS=08856144
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08856144
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120718
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 030 935 filed Feb. 18 2011. The aforementioned related patent application is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Identity resolution applications typically perform one or both of identity resolution and relationship resolution. Identity resolution attempts to answer the question Who is who i.e. determines whether multiple records that appear to describe different identities actually refer to the same entity e.g. individual . For example records identifying two women with different last names may in fact refer to the same woman having both a familial surname and a married surname. Relationship resolution attempts to answer the question Who knows whom in order to determine benefits and or risks of relationships among identities such as customers employees vendors and so forth e.g. by cross referencing data from various sources. For example a relationship may be identified between two individuals sharing a common address or telephone number. An example of an identity resolution application is InfoSphere Identity Insight available from International Business Machines Corp. IBM of Armonk N.Y.

Embodiments of the invention provide a computer implemented method computer program product and system for performing an operation that includes accessing a plurality of identity records where the plurality of identity records includes at least a first identity record having a relevance score of a first relevance type. The plurality of identity records further includes a second identity record having a relevance score of a second relevance type different from the first relevance type. The operation also includes resolving upon determining the plurality of identity records refer to a common individual the plurality of identity records into an entity representing the common individual. The operation also includes determining for the entity representing the common individual and from the plurality of identity records at least a relevance score of the first relevance type and a relevance score of the second relevance type.

Embodiments of the invention provide an application for identity resolution that is configured to process inbound identity records based on relevant identities entities conditions activities or events. In particular the application may be configured to resolve identity records to entity accounts each representing a distinct individual. As used herein an entity account or entity refers to a collection of one or more identity records that are believed to describe the same physical entity. As an example when Bob Smith checks into a hotel room a home address and telephone number from hotel check in records may be used to match him as being the same person as an entity account for a Robert Smith having the same address and phone number. To match Bob Smith to the entity account for Robert Smith the identity record representing Bob Smith is compared to a set of individuals each represented by a respective entity.

In one embodiment the process of resolving identity records and detecting relationships between entities may be performed using a pre determined or configurable entity resolution rules. Typically relationships between two entities are derived from information e.g. a shared address employer telephone number etc. in identity records that indicate a relationship between the two entities. Two examples of such rules include the following 

In one embodiment the application for identity resolution may also include rules for detecting relevant identities identities conditions or events i.e. rules for generating alerts based on incoming identity records. For example a rule may check the attributes of an inbound identity record and generate an alert when a particular match is found e.g. the inbound identity record is of interest because it includes an address within a particular zip code . Or an alert rule may specify situations where an assigned role of an inbound identity record conflicts with an assigned role of another identity record with which the inbound record has a relationship at zero or more degrees e.g. an identity with an assigned role of Employee has a strong relationship to an identity with an assigned role of Vendor . As another example an alert rule may be defined as a combination of both methods e.g. alert whenever an identity with the Nevada Gaming Black List role also has the Hotel Guest role and the hotel involved is located in the state of Nevada . Of course the relevance rules used may be tailored to suit the needs of a particular case.

In one embodiment the application for identity resolution generates an alert when the existence of a particular identity record typically an inbound record being processed causes some condition to be satisfied that is relevant in some way and that may require additional scrutiny by a user e.g. a business analyst an investigator of a police department etc. . The result of these processes is typically a list of alerts about identities that should be examined by the user. Such alerts may assist the user in identifying both benefits e.g. potential opportunities and risks e.g. potential threats and or fraud .

In one embodiment the application for identity resolution is further configured to generate a list of entities related to an inbound identity record based on an entity resolution search. Such an application may not necessarily have any need of alerting. For example security personnel may input personal data of a traveler as the traveler enters a country to check the identity of the traveler against a watch list. In particular the inbound identity record i.e. of the traveler need not be loaded into the application but may nevertheless be entity resolved against existing entities of the application. Further the existing entities may contain identity records that include relevance scores provided by a user. For example a user may provide a higher relevance score for a person of greater significance in the watch list. Entity resolving the inbound identity record may yield a list of entity records and contained identity records thereof determined to relate to or resolve with the inbound identity record. The application may assign a relevance score to the inbound identity record. The relevance score represents a measure of how important the individual represented inbound identity record is to the user performing the search.

In one embodiment the application for identity resolution may also determine relevant entities outside of the context of watch lists. For example both relevant and seemingly non relevant identity records may be provided to the application. However a user of the application may wish to find relevant entities without having to manage alerts or lifecycles thereof . For instance the user may have a set of very important persons VIPs with whom the user does business and to whom the user provides special services. The user may wish to ensure that any persons related to those VIPs are invited to experience a similar level of service. In this case the user may wish to identify all entities related to the VIPs ranked by an association relevance determined from a relationship between the VIP and another individual and the relevance of the VIP. The user may not wish to configure rules for or otherwise manage alerts the user merely wishes to know Who are my most relevant entities Further the user need not be encumbered with a task of sifting through a list of alerts to pick out entities which happen to be alerted on.

In one embodiment the application for identity resolution is further configured to provide typed relevance scores or relevance scores that are qualified by a relevance type. Each identity record and or entity may be associated with the relevance scores that are qualified by relevance type. The relevance score of each identity record or entity characterizes a level of importance of a given relevance type where the level of importance is attributed to the respective identity record or entity. For example assume that relevance types include threat and opportunity . Relevance scores measuring a degree of threat may be used to generate and or maintain criminal watch lists. Relevance scores measuring a degree of opportunity may be used to identify customers that are desirable targets of a new business proposal. Examples of such customers may include repeat customers customers with a high net worth customers designated as VIPs and or persons associated therewith etc. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that other relevance types are broadly contemplated. For example in an alternative embodiment the relevance types may include one or more of nuisance felon fraud sensitive access purchaser competitor vendor and employee rank .

Depending on the embodiment the identity records that resolve to an entity may each have a relevance score of a distinct relevance type. Further one or more of the identity records may have multiple relevance scores each pertaining to a distinct relevance type. Each relevance score and or relevance type of an identity record may be provided to or determined by the application. For instance a user may provide relevance scores for individuals of known relevance. Further for each relevance type the application may determine a relevance score for an entity based on one or more relevance scores of identity records that resolve to the entity.

Accordingly the application for identity resolution is configured to support data analysis from perspectives of distinct relevance types. For instance a data analyst may use the application to generate reports more efficiently and or conveniently at least in some cases. Such reports may include a report on the top ten threats a report on the top ten business opportunities a report on the top ten entities who are both considered a threat and have access to the highest level of sensitive information within an organization etc. Alternatively the application may be configured to generate alerts when one or more entities satisfy criteria for identifying entities who are both considered a threat and have access to the highest level of sensitive information within an organization. Advantageously the data analyst need not sift through the entities and or identity records to attempt to infer the relevance type of a given relevance score. The data analyst also need not refer to other data sources to determine the relevance type of a given relevance score. Further the data analyst may generate reports without having to reconfigure the identity resolution application and or capture relevance scores every time a different relevance type is desired in the reports.

In the following reference is made to embodiments of the invention. However it should be understood that the invention is not limited to specific described embodiments. Instead any combination of the following features and elements whether related to different embodiments or not is contemplated to implement and practice the invention. Furthermore although embodiments of the invention may achieve advantages over other possible solutions and or over the prior art whether or not a particular advantage is achieved by a given embodiment is not limiting of the invention. Thus the following aspects features embodiments and advantages are merely illustrative and are not considered elements or limitations of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s . Likewise reference to the invention shall not be construed as a generalization of any inventive subject matter disclosed herein and shall not be considered to be an element or limitation of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim s .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Embodiments of the invention may be provided to end users through a cloud computing infrastructure. Cloud computing generally refers to the provision of scalable computing resources as a service over a network. More formally cloud computing may be defined as a computing capability that provides an abstraction between the computing resource and its underlying technical architecture e.g. servers storage networks enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Thus cloud computing allows a user to access virtual computing resources e.g. storage data applications and even complete virtualized computing systems in the cloud without regard for the underlying physical systems or locations of those systems used to provide the computing resources.

Typically cloud computing resources are provided to a user on a pay per use basis where users are charged only for the computing resources actually used e.g. an amount of storage space consumed by a user or a number of virtualized systems instantiated by the user . A user can access any of the resources that reside in the cloud at any time and from anywhere across the Internet. In context of the present invention a user may request to execute an application in the cloud where the cloud provides an API that supports dual state objects. For example the cloud may provide an application server that supports the API. To the extent that the application uses dual state objects the processing and or memory costs associated with executing the application in the cloud may be reduced relative to a scenario in which the API does not support dual state objects. Having the application execute in the cloud allows the user to manage execution of the application from any computing system attached to a network connected to the cloud e.g. the Internet .

As described above the cloud may provide an application server that supports the API. The application server may provide services to applications for security state maintenance data access and persistence via one or more application programming interfaces APIs . In one embodiment the application server conforms to the Java Platform Enterprise Edition Java EE . As is known Java EE is a widely used platform for server programming in the Java programming language. The Java EE compliant application server may include one or more containers such as a Servlet container and an Enterprise JavaBeans EJB container and may provide services such as Java Naming and Directory Interface JNDI Java Message Service JMS and connection pooling.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The computer generally includes a processor connected via a bus to a memory a network interface device a storage an input device and an output device . The computer is generally under the control of an operating system. Examples of operating systems include UNIX versions of the Microsoft Windows operating system and distributions of the Linux operating system. More generally any operating system supporting the functions disclosed herein may be used. The processor is included to be representative of a single CPU multiple CPUs a single CPU having multiple processing cores and the like. Similarly the memory may be a random access memory. While the memory is shown as a single identity it should be understood that the memory may comprise a plurality of modules and that the memory may exist at multiple levels from high speed registers and caches to lower speed but larger DRAM chips. The network interface device may be any type of network communications device allowing the computer to communicate with other computers via the network .

The storage may be a persistent storage device. Although the storage is shown as a single unit the storage may be a combination of fixed and or removable storage devices such as fixed disc drives solid state drives floppy disc drives tape drives removable memory cards or optical storage. The memory and the storage may be part of one virtual address space spanning multiple primary and secondary storage devices. Further as described above the application receives identity records and or entity accounts from the data source . Additionally or alternatively the application may also receive identity records and or entity accounts via the storage .

The input device may be any device for providing input to the computer . For example a keyboard keypad light pen touch screen track ball or speech recognition unit audio video player and the like may be used. The output device may be any device for providing output to a user of the computer . For example the output device may be any conventional display screen or set of speakers along with their respective interface cards i.e. video cards and sound cards not shown . Although shown separately from the input device the output device and input device may be combined. For example a display screen with an integrated touch screen a display with an integrated keyboard or a speech recognition unit combined with a text speech converter may be used.

As shown the memory of the computer includes an application for identity resolution identity records and entities . The application may process the identity records to resolve the identity records to one or more of the entities . Each identity record may include one or more relevance scores . Each relevance score is qualified by at least one relevance type. The application may also determine relevance scores for the entities based on the relevance scores of identity records that resolve to the entities . Each of the relevance scores may also be qualified by at least one relevance type. The application may further determine an overall relevance score for an entity based on relevance scores of different relevance types for the entity. The application may also receive a query that specifies to retrieve entities satisfying predefined criteria where the criteria include a specified relevance score threshold being exceeded for a specified relevance type or for the overall relevance score . Advantageously by configuring the application to support relevance types users of the application are provided with improved flexibility in composing queries and or generating reports on relevant entities.

Depending on the embodiment the relevance scores may be assigned by a user or determined by the application based on other data in the identity records or external to the identity records. The other data in the identity record may include a field that indicates a role assigned to the identity record. For example an employee who is a chief executive officer CEO of a company may be assigned a relevance score having a value of 100 and having a relevance type of employee rank on the basis of the role field in the identity record. Similarly an employee who is a middle manager of the company may be assigned a relevance score having a value of 50 and having a relevance type of employee rank . If the middle manager also has an authority to sign off on purchases e.g. as indicated by data external to the identity records for the middle manager then the application may increase the relevance score for the middle manager to a higher value e.g. 60 . Additionally or alternatively the relevance scores of an identity record may also be determined at least in part based on a type of data source from which the identity record originates such as an employee database or a vendor database .

In an alternative embodiment instead of increasing a relevance score of relevance type employee rank based on purchasing authority in the company another relevance score of relevance type purchaser may be included in the identity records. For a given identity record that represents an employee in the company the relevance score of relevance type purchaser may be assigned a value based on a maximum dollar amount of purchases that the employee has authority to approve. For example an identity record representing an employee that can only authorize small purchases may be assigned a purchaser relevance score of 20 . The identity record may be assigned a purchaser relevance score of 50 if the employee can only authorize medium sized purchases. Further the identity record may be assigned a purchaser relevance score of 100 if the employee can authorize large purchases. Each purchaser relevance score may be determined based on a predefined expression provided by an administrative user where the predefined expression may be any mathematical programmatic or natural language expression. Additionally or alternatively each purchaser relevance score may be determined based on a user defined mapping between maximum thresholds of dollar amount and corresponding values for relevance scores.

Further in some embodiments the identity record may also include an overall relevance score that characterizes all relevance scores of different types that are associated with the identity record. The overall relevance score of the identity record may indicate the significance of the identity record to an entity account that the identity record resolves to relative to other identity records resolving to the entity account. The overall relevance score for each identity record may be determined based on a predefined expression provided by an administrative user. For example if the predefined expression specifies to compute an average of all relevance scores of an identity record then the identity record for John Smith in may include an overall relevance score of 35 and the identity record for Johnny Smith may include an overall relevance score of 80 . Further depending on the embodiment the application may also be configured to search for identity records resolving to an entity and having an overall relevance score satisfying a threshold value responsive to receiving a query that specifies the threshold value. The application may then output a list of identity records where the list may be sorted by predefined criteria such as by ascending or descending overall relevance score. Advantageously by configuring the application to support different relevance types each identity record may be assigned multiple relevance scores each relevance score representing a measure of relevance of a different type. Accordingly users of the application are provided with improved flexibility in composing queries and or generating reports on relevant identity records.

Assume that the predefined expression specifies to compute the relevance scores for the relevance types fraud and sensitive access based on a maximum value of relevance scores of the same type where the relevance scores are assigned to the identity records. Because the maximum value of the relevance score for fraud assigned to the identity records of is 50 the application determines for the entity the value of 50 as the relevance score having a relevance type of fraud . Further because the maximum value of the relevance score for sensitive access assigned to the identity records of is 80 the application determines for the entity the value of 80 as the relevance score having a relevance type of sensitive access . Further still in some embodiments the application may also determine a relevance score of a relevance type of overall in other words an overall relevance score for the entity. The overall relevance score may be determined by a predefined expression provided by an administrative user. For example the predefined expression may specify a weighted average to be computed across all other relevance scores assigned to the entity. To this end the predefined expression may specify a respective weight for each relevance score assigned to the entity where one or more of weights may be user defined. The weights characterize some relevance scores as being more significant than other relevance scores in determining the overall relevance score for the entity. For example relevance scores having a relevance type of fraud or sensitive access may be deemed more significant than a relevance score having a relevance type of VIP and may accordingly be assigned a higher weight. Still further the application may also be configured to update relevance scores for an entity responsive to changes in relevance scores for an identity record that resolves to the entity.

Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the application may determine a relevance score for the entity based at least in part on a characteristic of the set of identity records that resolve to the entity where the characteristic may not necessarily be evident from any individual identity record from the set. For example assume that the entity includes a set of identity records each having a distinct name of an individual. Although each identity record merely includes a single name of the individual the set of identity records includes multiple distinct names for the individual which may indicate that the individual is attempting to commit fraud using aliases. Accordingly in some embodiments the application identifies a characteristic of having multiple distinct values for a given field e.g. name of the individual of the entity and determines or modifies a relevance score for the entity based on the identified characteristic.

Advantageously by configuring the application to support different relevance types at the entity level each entity may be assigned multiple relevance scores each relevance score representing a measure of relevance of a different type. Users of the application are thereby provided with improved flexibility in composing queries and or generating reports on the entities.

In one embodiment the application is further configured to generate alerts based on the relevance types. As described above the application may also include rules for detecting relevant identities identities conditions or events i.e. rules for generating alerts based on incoming identity records and or resultant entities. In one embodiment one or more of the rules may be dependent on a given relevance type. For example the application may be configured to update one or more relevance scores on the basis of processed events. For instance assume multiple purchasing events are provided to the application where the purchasing events are approved by the middle manager. In one embodiment the application increases a relevance score of a purchaser relevance type upon every purchasing event approved by the middle manager. Although the amounts and or frequency of the purchasing events may not necessarily trigger an alert the relevance score of purchaser is maintained regularly to indicate that the middle manager is responsible for approving purchasing events and or is using that authority within the company.

In one embodiment the application may be configured to generate alerts based on relevance types and relationships between entities. Each relationship may be characterized by a relationship type. Examples of relationship types include employer employee vendor supplier customer spouse father mother roommate etc. Each relationship may also include a measure of strength of the respective relationship also referred to as relationship strength . The relationship strength may be expressed as a numerical value between one and one hundred with one hundred representing the highest strength. Each relationship type and relationship strength may be provided by a user or determined by the application .

Suppose that the name of the middle manager is John Doe and that another individual Jane Doe is a known representative of one of the vendors of the company having a vendor relevance score of 100 . Suppose the application identifies a relationship between the middle manager and the vendor based at least in part on John Doe and Jane Doe residing at the same residential address and sharing the same credit card number. Suppose that the relationship has a relationship strength of 98 and a relationship type of spouse . In one embodiment the application may generate an alert to indicate that the vendor is related to the middle manager and that the middle manager authorizes purchases at the company. Alternatively a user may submit an appropriate query to the application to identify the relationship between the middle manager and the vendor. Depending on the embodiment an alert is generated when a relationship is discovered between an employee and a vendor where the employee has a purchasing authority beyond a specified threshold. In other embodiments the alert is only generated if the relationship is additionally of a given relationship type and or has a relationship strength that exceeds a specified threshold. Advantageously configuring the application to support distinct relevance types allows such relationships to be identified more readily and or conveniently at least in some cases.

Advantageously embodiments of the invention provide techniques for configuring an entity resolution application to support distinct relevance types. One embodiment provides identity records to the application where the identity records are assigned relevance scores of distinct relevance types. Upon determining that the identity records refer to a common individual the application resolves the identity records into an entity representing the common individual. The application then determines for the entity representing the common individual and from the identity records at least the relevance scores of the distinct relevance types. Advantageously the application may generate alerts and or respond to queries pertaining to the distinct relevance types thereby providing users of the application with improved flexibility and convenience in discovering relevant identifies and or entities.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

