---

title: Cursor assist mode
abstract: Described herein are implementations of various technologies for a method and apparatus for providing marine electronic data. In one implementation, a screen may display marine electronic data. A cursor may be provided that is movable by placement of a finger over the cursor. A request to display the cursor at a position such that the cursor is not obstructed from view by the finger may be received. The requested cursor may be displayed at the position on the screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495065&OS=09495065&RS=09495065
owner: NAVICO HOLDING AS
number: 09495065
owner_city: Egersund
owner_country: NO
publication_date: 20121231
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 668 966 filed Jul. 6 2012 titled CURSOR ASSIST MODE and the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 708 527 filed Oct. 1 2012 titled CURSOR ASSIST MODE and the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.

This section is intended to provide background information to facilitate a better understanding of various technologies described herein. As the section s title implies this is a discussion of related art. That such art is related in no way implies that it is prior art. The related art may or may not be prior art. It should therefore be understood that the statements in this section are to be read in this light and not as admissions of prior art.

Accurate data including for example navigation mapping and the location of stationary and moving objects can be very useful for marine activities. The operator of a marine vessel monitors marine traffic. A device that is easy to operate and that provides data in an easy to follow format can provide advantages to the vessel operator. Such advantages may include requiring less time to request and review information which in turn provides the vessel operator with more time to monitor the marine traffic.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies for a method and apparatus for providing marine electronic information. In one implementation a screen may display marine electronic data. A cursor may be provided that is movable by placement of a finger over the cursor. A request to display the cursor at a position such that the cursor is not obstructed from view by the finger may be received. The requested cursor may be displayed at the position on the screen.

Described herein are also implementations of various technologies for a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions which when executed by a computer causes the computer to perform various actions. In one implementation the actions may include providing marine electronic data for display on a screen. A cursor that is movable by placement of a finger over the cursor may be provided at a first position. A user request to display the cursor at a second position on the screen may be received. The second position can be at a predetermined offset from the first position. The cursor may then be displayed at the second position.

Described herein are also implementations of various technologies for an apparatus for displaying marine electronic data. The apparatus includes one or more processors a screen and memory. The memory has a plurality of executable instructions. When the executable instructions are executed by the one or more processors the one or more processors may provide marine electronic data for display on the screen. A cursor at a first position may be provided. The cursor can be movable by placement of a finger over the cursor. A user request to display the cursor at a second position may be received. The second position can be at a predetermined offset from the first position. The cursor may be displayed at the second position.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

It is specifically intended that the claimed invention not be limited to the implementations and illustrations contained herein but include modified forms of those implementations including portions of the implementations and combinations of elements of different implementations as come within the scope of the following claims. Nothing in this application is considered critical or essential to the claimed invention unless explicitly indicated as being critical or essential. 

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the implementations.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first object or step could be termed a second object or step and similarly a second object or step could be termed a first object or step without departing from the scope of the invention. The first object or step and the second object or step are both objects or steps respectively but they are not to be considered the same object or step.

The terminology used in the description of the present disclosure herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the present disclosure. As used in the description of the present disclosure and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

 Alternatively shall not be construed to only pertain to situations where the number of choices involved is exactly two but rather refers to another possibility among many other possibilities.

Additionally various technologies and techniques described herein include receiving user requests for a number of different operations. In certain instances the user request for a particular operation will be explicitly described. It shall be understood that user request or user can request shall also include but are not limited to double tapping the screen tapping the screen twice in rapid succession pressing a particular physical or virtual button making a selection from a menu placement of a cursor at a particular location an audible command contact and a selection with a stylus selection with a mouse as well as the explicit description of the user request for the particular operation or how the user can request explicitly the particular operations.

Furthermore in the interests of clarity the cursor at the position such that the cursor is not obstructed from view by the finger and cursor at the second position shall be referred to in this description as offset cursor. 

The following paragraphs provide a brief summary of various technologies and techniques directed to providing marine electronic information in accordance with one or more implementations described herein.

In one implementation various technologies and techniques described herein are directed to a display device having a screen. The screen displays marine electronic data. The user can operate the display device in one of several modes including a panning mode and a cursor assist mode. In the panning mode the user can move the marine electronic data in a particular direction. In the cursor assist mode the screen displays a cursor. The cursor is movable by placing the finger onto the screen and moving the finger. That is the cursor moves as the finger moves. However when the cursor moves under the finger the finger obstructs the cursor from view. As such in one implementation by receiving a user request the display device provides an offset cursor. The finger can now move the offset cursor at an offset from the finger such that the finger does not obstruct the user s view of the cursor.

One or more implementations of various techniques for providing marine electronic information will now be described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

The display device can also provide a cursor . The display device may provide the cursor by default. Alternatively the display device can provide the cursor in response to a user request.

The display device moves the cursor when the user places the finger over the cursor and moves the finger . In this manner the cursor is configured to move with the finger . Placement of the finger over the cursor however may obstruct the user s view of the cursor . Accordingly in one implementation the user can request the display device to display an offset cursor on the screen that is offset from the cursor finger . The cursor is located under the tip of the finger . As such the position of the cursor can be approximated to be under a certain area of the tip of the finger such as the center. Therefore an offset from the cursor may correspond to an offset from the finger . After the offset cursor appears the display device may remove the cursor . The user can request the offset cursor by stationary placement of the finger over the cursor for a predetermined amount of time. For example the predetermined time can be about three seconds. This mode may be referred to as the cursor assist mode.

When the display device receives the user request for an offset cursor the display device provides the offset cursor at a predetermined distance from finger . The predetermined distance is configured such that the finger does not obstruct the view of the offset cursor . For example the predetermined distance can be between about 0.635 cm to about 1.27 cm . In certain implementations the predetermined distance may be adjustable to the user s preferences. Although the offset cursor is shown above the cursor and the finger the offset cursor can be positioned elsewhere e.g. the upper right the upper left the lower left and the lower right. See . In one implementation the offset cursor resembles the cursor while in another implementation the offset cursor can appear different from the cursor . Further in yet another implementation the display device can freeze the electronic marine data thereby preventing panning when the offset cursor is present.

At block the display device receives a user request for a cursor . When the display device receives the request for the cursor the display device provides the cursor at block . At this point the display device can detect placement of the finger and the cursor and can move the marine electronic data in the direction of the finger movement. At block the display device receives a user request for the display device to display the offset cursor . At block after receiving the request for the offset cursor the display device freezes the marine electronic data from panning provides the offset cursor at the predetermined distance from the finger and removes the cursor block .

At block the display device detects movement of the user s finger and moves block the offset cursor with the finger at the predetermined distance from the finger . At block the display device receives a user request for a selection of an area under which the offset cursor is placed. At block the display device the selects the area under the offset cursor .

As noted above the marine electronic data can include chart data radar data and sonar data. The cursor assist mode can facilitate interaction with a graphical user interface containing chart data radar data and sonar data. describe the use of the cursor assist mode to facilitate interaction with a graphical user interface that includes chart data. describe the use of the cursor assist mode to facilitate interaction with a graphical user interface that includes radar data.

The graphical user interface can also selectively provide a menu . The menu may be displayed in response to a user request for the menu . For example the user can request a menu by touching a predetermined area on the graphical user interface . The user can request that the display device select certain points of interest and provide more information about them. In one implementation the user can make the request by placing the offset cursor at the point of interest and pressing one of the plurality of buttons e.g. . In response to receiving the user selection of the point of interest the display device may provide information about the selected point of interest . For example the display device may provide information about the conditions at the point of interest such as latitude longitude air temperature wind direction and if on water water surface temperature and depth. If the point of interest is a tidal station the display device may provide information about the tides that have been recorded at the tidal station . If the point of interest is a buoy the display device may display the identification number of the buoy.

Additionally the user can select geographical points on the map that are not associated with any particular point of interest . In response to receiving a user selection of a geographical point the display device may display the latitude longitude estimated air temperature and if on water water surface temperature and depth. In some implementations some of these information may not be shown.

After selecting the particular point of interest or the particular geographic point the user can request that the display device place a marker on the particular point of interest not shown or the particular geographic point shown . The markers can be used for a variety of purposes such as setting waypoints recording points and determining the distance between two points. In one implementation the markers may be waypoints. Waypoints may be commonly known as standalone points of interest.

The markers can also be used to store points of interest or geographical points to memory e.g. memory . After marking a point of interest or geographical point the user can request that the display device records the point of interest or geographical point . Upon receiving the user request the display device records the point of interest or geographical point recorded point to a storage device not shown . As stated above the chart data may include a local map of the region surrounding the display device or the vessel carrying the display device . As the vessel carrying the display device moves the local map of the region surrounding the display device changes. If the vessel carrying the display device moves far enough the entire chart data will be different. The recorded point will no longer appear on the screen . If the vessel carrying the display device returns to the vicinity of the recorded point the recorded point may reappear on the screen . However the recorded point will appear with the marker.

In one implementation the user can determine the distance between two geographical locations and by requesting the display device place a marker over the source point and dragging the offset cursor from the source point to the destination . At the destination the user can request that the display device place the second marker . In another implementation the display device automatically calculates the distance between the source point and another geographic point under the offset cursor in real time.

The graphical user interface can also selectively provide a menu . The graphical user interface can provide the menu in response to a user request for the menu . For example the user can request a menu by touching a predetermined area on the graphical user interface .

An electronic bearing line EBL can be established with the use of the offset cursor . The EBL can be used to find the distance and bearing of a target at a point on the radar display. The target can be a stationary or moving object such as another vessel. The EBL may be set by dragging the offset cursor to the object or point on the radar display. Alternatively the EBL may be set by positioning the offset cursor on the target . When the offset cursor is above the object or point the user can request that the display device establish the EBL by making a selection on the menu . The EBL can automatically connect the current position of the vessel to the target . The EBL may follow the movement of the vessel carrying the display device and the movement of the target .

Implementations of various technologies described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various technologies described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Further each program module may be implemented in its own way and all need not be implemented the same way. While program modules may all execute on a single computing system it should be appreciated that in some implementations program modules may be implemented on separate computing systems or devices adapted to communicate with one another. A program module may also be some combination of hardware and software where particular tasks performed by the program module may be done either through hardware software or both.

The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory a graphics processing unit GPU and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU.

The CPU can include a microprocessor a microcontroller a processor a programmable integrated circuit or a combination thereof. The CPU can comprise an off the shelf processor such as a Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC or a Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages MIPS processor or a combination thereof. The CPU can also comprise a proprietary processor.

The GPU may be a microprocessor specifically designed to manipulate and implement computer graphics. The CPU may offload work to the GPU . The GPU may have its own graphics memory and or may have access to a portion of the system memory . As with the CPU the GPU may include one or more processing units and each processing unit may include one or more cores.

The CPU can provide output data to a graphics processor . The graphics processor can generate graphical user interfaces that present the output data. The graphics processor can also provide objects such as menus in the graphical user interface. A user can provide inputs by interacting with the objects. The graphics processor can receive the inputs from interaction with the objects and provide the inputs to the CPU .

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive interface for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The computing system may also include a host adapter that connects to a storage device via a small computer system interface SCSI bus a Fiber Channel bus an eSATA bus or using any other applicable computer bus interface. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs control pilot and program data . In certain implementations the hard disk may include and a database system. The database system could record for example recorded points. The application programs may include various mobile applications apps and other applications configured to perform various methods and techniques described herein. The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as buttons . Other input devices may include a microphone not shown . These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

Additionally the user can enter inputs through a monitor . As noted above in certain implementations the screen can be sensitive to touching by a finger while in other implementations the screen can be sensitive to the body heat from the finger . The screen detects placement and movement of the user s fingers and provides signals that are indicative of such placement and movement to the CPU . Additionally the screen detects user interactions with the objects provided by the GPU and provides signals that are indicative of the user interactions with the objects. The monitor may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter .

In certain implementations the computing system also has a radar interface and a chart interface connected to the system bus . The radar interface can be operably connected to a radar system not shown . The radar interface can receive signals from the radar system and convert the signals to a data format that is compatible with the CPU . The chart interface can be operably connected to a Global Positioning Satellite GPS navigation system not shown or a combination thereof. The chart interface can receive signals from the GPS system and convert the signals to a data format that is compatible with the CPU .

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may be another computer a server computer a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many or all of the elements describes above relative to the computing system . The remote computers may also each include application programs similar to that of the computer action function.

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The router may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In other implementations the computing system can receive signals from a GPS navigation system and radar system through the network interface .

The network interface may also utilize remote access technologies e.g. Remote Access Service RAS Virtual Private Networking VPN Secure Socket Layer SSL Layer 2 Tunneling L2T or any other suitable protocol . These remote access technologies may be implemented in connection with the remote computers .

In certain implementations at least certain parts or the entire computing system the monitor buttons and microphone not shown can be integrated into a display device .

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations. Also the program code may execute entirely on a user s computing device partly on the user s computing device as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or a server computer.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

