---

title: Pressure activated inertially locking base for projectiles
abstract: An advance is made in the art according to an aspect of the present invention disclosure directed to a pressure-activated, inertially locking base and fin mechanism for projectiles. Operationally, a base housing of a projectile contains both the fins, held within slots within the base, and a plunger. Which plunger has plurality of channels communicating with a chamber within base and which plunger is initially situated flush with the base. Upon firing the chamber is pressurized by the high-pressure firing gases being forced through the channels. When the projectile exits the barrel, the chamber's pressure vents through the channels, but, not fast enough to avoid a pressure differential that forces the plunger out of the base, causing a set of spring arms to flex upward and deploy the fins. When fully deployed, the fins are locked in place, in the deployed position, by a spring loaded pin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08569670&OS=08569670&RS=08569670
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08569670
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120521
---
This application is a continuation in part of presently copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 634 926 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 121 250 filed Dec. 10 2009 and further both U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 634 926 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 121 250 are incorporated by reference as if set forth at length herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This disclosure relates generally to the field of artillery and more particularly it pertains to a pressure activated mechanism for projectiles which deploys flight stabilizing fins after firing thereof.

In order to further stabilize and control the flight of guided artillery projectiles fins have been added to their design. As can be appreciated in order to fire the artillery projectile from a barrel for example the fins must be fully folded in or stowed inside the minimum diameter of the barrel during firing.

One design of foldable fins employs a hood which covers the fins during firing and which is discarded after the projectile leaves the barrel. Since the hood flies downrange upon discard a safety hazard is created for persons or objects in that downrange direction. Such that there is a need in the art for an alternative method to deploy fins to stabilize and control flight that does not suffer from such a safety hazard.

An advance is made in the art according to an aspect of the present invention disclosure that is directed to a pressure activated inertially locking base and fin deployment mechanism for barrel fired projectiles that does not suffer from the problems of the prior art. The invention comprising a method of extending and locking fins upon firing of a projectile from a weapon barrel either rifled or unrifled which includes the steps of 1 providing said projectile having a housing with a base and with a base portion extending from said base the base portion containing a plurality of slots penetrating and extending into said housing each slot having a top and bottom the top being located on the side of the slot closest to the nose of the projectile and the bottom being located on the opposite side of the slot closest to the base of the projectile 2 stowing within each slot a fin each fin mounted to the base so as to rotate about a pivot point to move to a deployed position wherein said fin extends from said housing to help stabilize the flight of said projectile 3 and wherein said pivot point is located near the bottom of each slot and toward the outside of the slot 4 and wherein the center of gravity of each fin is such that it is stable in such a stowed position 5 providing a plunger which has a lower side which is aligned with and seals the base of the projectile prior to firing thereof and which plunger has an upper side at least a portion of which is in communication with a chamber 6 providing a plurality of relatively small passages through said plunger that allow pressure communication between the lower side of the projectile base and a said chamber 7 firing said projectile such that said chamber is pressurized thereby 8 whereby upon the projectile exiting the barrel a pressure differential is created between the chamber and the lower side of the plunger such that the plunger extends from the base of the projectile causing a set of spring arms to contact and motivate the fins to rotatably deploy from the slots and 9 whereby once the fins are deployed a spring loaded shaft or pin which had been blocked from movement by the stowed fins themselves is freed to move and does move to a position behind each fin to lock each fin in the desired deployed position.

The following merely illustrates the principles of the disclosure. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the disclosure and are included within its spirit and scope.

Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the disclosure and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.

Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the disclosure as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Thus for example it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative structures embodying the principles of the disclosure.

Operationally the present invention comprises a base housing of a projectile which contains a set of folded in flight stabilizing fins chambered within a set of slots within the housing and a plunger which plunger has a plurality of relatively small diameter passages or channels therethrough which passages allow gas flow and pressure equalization between the exterior of the plunger and a chamber within the base housing which chamber is preferably hemispheric to better withstand the pressures to which it will be subjected . Upon firing the plunger is situated flush with the base and remains so as long as the projectile is contained within the barrel i.e. the gun tube due to the high pressure therein i.e. up to about 10 000 psi pressure caused by the firing detonation of the explosive propellant charge. Also as long as the projectile is contained within the barrel the chamber within the base housing becomes and remains pressurized up to a pressure approaching that external to the plunger via the aforementioned passages. Such that when the projectile exits the barrel and a precipitous external pressure drop to ambient pressure occurs the high pressure within the chamber will begin venting out of the passages. However this venting will be inhibited due to the relatively small diameter of the passages i.e. choked flow such that the pressure within the chamber will be for a period of time after the projectile exits the barrel significantly higher than the ambient atmospheric pressure. This pressure differential will force the plunger into motion out of the base in a rearward direction opposite that of travel of the projectile . Which motion of the plunger will cause a set of spring arms to flex generally upward i.e. generally toward the front of the projectile in the direction of travel and generally outward i.e. generally away from the longitudinal center line of the plunger thereby contacting and urging the fins to rotate about a pivot point such that the fins deploy out of the slots within the housing. When fully deployed each fin is locked in place in the deployed position by a spring loaded pin which pin is freed to move when each fin deploys.

As detailed above in the subject invention the fins are initially stowed or folded in in the base housing. The fins will remain in such a stowed position until urged therefrom by the motion of the above described spring arms as the center of gravity of each fin is such as to make each fin stable within its initial folded in i.e. stowed position within each slot. Further as generally described above when the plunger moves rearward and forces said spring arms to flex upwards and outwards the spring arms contact the stowed fins in an off center manner so as to motivate the fins to rotate about a pivot point located in the fins rear lower corner i.e. the corner of the fin located and toward the outside of the slot i.e. toward the outside or periphery of the projectile . As the fin then begins to move under such urging by the spring arm the center of gravity of the fin will be relocated radially outward toward the outside of periphery of the projectile such that when the fin begins to deploy out of the slot the new center of gravity of the fin will cause it to keep deploying and to remain deployed. And in the event that the particular barrel is rifled and the projectile spinning the force of the spin will further aid in the deployment of the fin once the motion is initiated by the urging of the spring arm . Further as stated above there is a set of spring loaded pins which once the fin becomes deployed is free to exit the channel in which each spring loaded pin is initially held and to move behind the extended fin to ensure the each fin remains fully deployed i.e. by locking that each deployed fin in the desired deployed position extending from the projectile housing to provide stable flight for the projectile.

More specifically with reference now to there is shown a simple schematic diagram of a side and bottom views of a projectile base housing assembly according to an aspect of the present invention. As generally show the assembly includes a housing includes a plurality of fin slots disposed around a perimeter of the housing . A bottom or base of the housing forms a lower surface of the housing in which is positioned a plunger having a lower face which forms a pressure seal with the housing base. One or more passages formed in the face of the plunger allow a pressure communication between the outside of the housing and an interior portion of the housing when the plunger is sealed with the face of the base .

With reference now to that there is shown an interior schematic view of the projectile base housing. In this shown are the fin slots the fins the plunger body its face and the spring arms . As shown in the plunger is closed and sealed against the base housing. In addition it may be seen that there are a plurality of spring arms shown as generally disposed around the circumference of the plunger head . When the projectile exits the gun tube the pressure that has built up inside the chamber as discussed above pushes downward the plunger causing spring arms to flex upward away from the plunger face to contact with and motivate the fins to deploy. In deploying the fins merely rotate about a pivot or pin point at which the fins are rotatably joined to the interior of each slot by well known technology in the art . When fully deployed the fins are locked in the deployed position and thereby stabilize the projectile during its flight.

With reference now to there is shown an interior schematic view of the projectile base housing after launch and subsequent to fin deployment. As shown upon launch the external pressure to the housing drops sufficient that the interior pressure extends the plunger such that its face extends beyond the base of the housing. As a result the spring arms flex upward urging and the extended fins to deploy.

Turning now to there is shown an exploded view of the interior schematic of the projectile housing. Shown in this is a close up of the plunger body . As can be appreciated the plunger body comprises a sliding shaft which extends from the base of the housing after projectile launch. In a preferred embodiment the plunger body may include a shaft flange including a seal to further seal the internal pressure during the launch of the projectile. In this manner the seal may engage a perimeter top portion of the flange such that the internal pressure is maintained until after the projectile leaves the barrel.

As detailed above and also shown in in the subject invention the fins are initially stowed or folded in into the housing . The fins will remain in such a stowed position until urged therefrom by the motion of the above described spring arms as the center of gravity of each fin is such as to make each fin stable within its initial folded in or stowed position within each slot . Further as generally described above when the plunger moves rearward and forces said spring arms to flex upwards and outwards the spring arms contact the bottom of the stowed fins in an off center manner so as to motivate the fins to rotate about a pivot point located in the fins rear lower corner i.e. the corner of the fin located toward the rear side of the projectile and toward the outside of the slot toward the outside or periphery of the projectile . As each fin then begins to move under such urging by the spring arm the center of gravity of the fin will be relocated radially outward toward the outside of periphery of the projectile such that when the fin begins to deploy out of the slot the new center of gravity of the fin will cause it to keep deploying and to remain deployed. Further as stated above there is a set of spring loaded pins which once the fin deploys is free to exit the channel in which each spring loaded pin is initially held and to extend behind the deployed fins to ensure the each fin remains fully deployed.

As stated above in the present invention the passages are relatively small in relationship to the plunger base diameter and there are from about 2 to about 8 of such passages preferably 3 to 6 thereof and most preferably from about 4 to about 5 thereof. Further and preferably the diameter of the passages or channels which are substantially circular in cross section are from about 1 64 to about 3 16 of the diameter of the plunger base . More preferably the diameter of the passages are from about 1 16 to about 5 64 of the diameter of the plunder base .

The present invention may optionally further comprise a cover over each slot to keep dirt or other debris from entering the slot and in any way interfering with or blocking the deployment of the fin therein. Such covers can be any plastic or other light weight material which is glued or otherwise fastened over each slot in a fashion so as not to impede the deployment of each fin .

At this point while we have discussed and described the invention using some specific examples those skilled in the art will recognize that our teachings are not so limited. Accordingly the invention should be only limited by the scope of the claims attached hereto.

