---

title: Optimizing virtual machines placement in cloud computing environments
abstract: Placement of instances of virtual machine (VM) images in a cloud computing environment is optimized. A request is received to deploy a new VM image instance. User-specific and generic VM resource usage profiles are read that include resource consumption data. Resource pool profiles for multiple resource pools are read that include resource consumption data for the resource pools. For each of the resource pool profiles, a selected VM resource usage profile is analyzed and aligned with the resource pool profiles. An aggregated resource consumption profile is calculated. A determination is made of one of multiple resource pools with the least aggregated resource consumption.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495215&OS=09495215&RS=09495215
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09495215
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121009
---
This application claims priority to and claims the benefit of European Patent Application Serial No. EP11184860.2 titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OPTIMIZING VIRTUAL MACHINES PLACEMENT IN CLOUD COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS which was filed in the European Patent Office on Oct. 12 2011 and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to cloud computing and in particular to optimizing the placement of instances of virtual machine images in cloud computing environments.

Cloud computing is becoming an innovative computing paradigm. It provides reliable customized and guaranteed computing infrastructures for users. The concept of cloud computing refers to the use of computing capabilities of machines provided by more than one provider center around the world. Linked by a network these machines provide resources such as central processing units CPUs that may be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine or other processes for a limited or defined duration. The user may request resources for deployment of an application and have for example a dedicated virtual machine VM to run an application.

A method for optimizing the placement of instances of a plurality of virtual machine images in a cloud environment the cloud environment including a plurality of resource pools each resource pool including one or more resources involves receiving a request from a user to deploy a new instance of one of the virtual machine VM images where the request indicates a VM image to be instantiated reading by a placement engine a VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image the VM resource usage profile including first resource consumption data the first resource consumption data indicating a predicted resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over a first period of time reading by the placement engine one resource pool profile for each of the plurality of resources pools each resource pool profile including second resource consumption data the second resource consumption data indicating a predicted resource consumption in a resource pool associated with the resource pool profile over a second period of time the resource pool profile further including a current resource consumption on the resource pool reading if available a user specific VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image and stored in association with an identifier of the user the user specific VM resource usage profile including third resource usage data the third resource usage data indicating a predicted user specific resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over the first period of time for each of the resource pool profiles by the placement engine generating a resulting VM resource usage profile by selecting one of the user specific VM resource usage profile where the user specific VM resource usage profile is available and the VM resource usage profile analyzing the resulting VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile the analysis including aligning the resulting VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile by aligning the second period of time of the resource pool profile of the resource pool with the first period of time of the resulting VM resource usage profile and calculating an aggregated resource consumption profile that predicts a total resource consumption on the resource pool by aggregating the resource consumption of the aligned profiles and determining as a result of the analysis of all resource pool profiles the one of the plurality of resource pools with a least aggregated resource consumption.

A system includes a storage device including a plurality of virtual machine VM images a plurality of resource pools each resource pool including one or more resources an interface configured to receive a request from a user to deploy a new instance of one of the VM images where the request indicates a VM image to be instantiated a placement engine configured to read a VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image the VM resource usage profile including first resource consumption data the first resource consumption data indicating a predicted resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over a first period of time read one resource pool profile for each of the plurality of resources pools each resource pool profile including second resource consumption data the second resource consumption data indicating a predicted resource consumption in a resource pool associated with the resource pool profile over a second period of time the resource pool profile further including a current resource consumption on the resource pool read if available a user specific VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image and stored in association with an identifier of the user the user specific VM resource usage profile including third resource usage data the third resource usage data indicating a predicted user specific resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over the first period of time for each of the resource pool profiles generate a resulting VM resource usage profile by selecting one of the user specific VM resource usage profile where the user specific VM resource usage profile is available and the VM resource usage profile analyze the resulting VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile the analysis including aligning the resulting VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile by aligning the second period of time of the resource pool profile of the resource pool with the first period of time of the resulting VM resource usage profile and calculate an aggregated resource consumption profile that predicts a total resource consumption on the resource pool by aggregating the resource consumption of the aligned profiles and determine as a result of the analysis of all resource profiles the one of the plurality of resource pools with a least aggregated resource consumption.

A computer program product for optimizing the placement of instances of a plurality of virtual machine images in a cloud environment the cloud environment including a plurality of resource pools each resource pool including one or more resources involves a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith where the computer readable program code when executed on a computer causes the computer to receive a request from a user to deploy a new instance of one of the virtual machine VM images where the request indicates a VM image to be instantiated read a virtual machine VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image the VM resource usage profile including first resource consumption data the first resource consumption data indicating a predicted resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over a first period of time read one resource pool profile for each of the plurality of resources pools each resource pool specific profile including second resource consumption data the second resource consumption data indicating a predicted resource consumption in a resource pool associated with the resource pool profile over a second period of time the resource pool profile further including a current resource consumption on the resource pool read if available a user specific VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image and stored in association with an identifier of the user the user specific VM resource usage profile including third resource usage data the third resource usage data indicating a predicted user specific resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over the first period of time for each of the resource pool profiles generate a resulting VM resource usage profile by selecting one of the user specific VM resource usage profile where the user specific VM resource usage profile is available and the VM resource usage profile analyze the resulting VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile the analysis including aligning the resulting VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile by aligning the second period of time of the resource pool profile of the resource pool with the first period of time of the resulting VM resource usage profile and calculate an aggregated resource consumption profile that predicts a total resource consumption on the resource pool by aggregating the resource consumption of the aligned profiles and determine as a result of the analysis of all resource profiles the one of the plurality of resource pools with a least aggregated resource consumption.

In the following like numbered elements in these figures are either similar elements or perform an equivalent function. Elements which have been discussed previously will not necessarily be discussed in later figures if the function is equivalent.

The term cloud computing as used herein refers to a computing platform where users may have access to applications or computing resources provided in the form of services over a network. A user interface and application programming interface API on the cloud makes the infrastructure supporting such services transparent to users.

The term virtual machine as used herein may refer to software implementation of a computer that executes programs like a physical computer.

The term virtual machine image as used herein encompasses a set of data that is executable and or data specifying for example an operating system OS random access memory RAM disk space etc. and indicating a particular configuration of the associated virtual machine that the system will use to run that virtual machine.

The term Registry as used herein refers to a data store on a tangible computer readable storage medium. A data store includes computer and or user specific settings. For example the user specific settings may include a Service Level Agreement SLA that defines a minimum quality of service the user will receive.

The term Repository as used herein may refer to any type of information store such as a database directory system registry or other means of storing various types of information.

The term Spare as used herein refers to an extra resource component such as a drive or tape that is pre designated for use as a replacement for a failed component.

The term host platform as used herein refers to a physical device that provides computing network or storage resources.

The term resource pool as used herein refers to a collection of host platforms that are bundled together. The purpose of this bundling is to combine the computing networking storage and other types of resources such that they appear as one single resource. The cloud computing management system may allocate from the resources up to the limits of the resource pool that otherwise would exceed the physical resources of one single host platform. Resources of the resource pool are assigned to users at the time they request services or resources from the cloud computing management system. A resource may be for example and without limitation a processor a network component a disk storage etc. that may be assigned to a user.

The term resource usage profile as used herein refers to a set of resource consumption data that indicates the utilization of the resource over a period of time.

The user specific VM resource profile URUP may include rules. Some of these rules may include user specific conditions on the number type and or availability of resources. These conditions are in accordance with a service level agreement SLA . The service level agreements specify the required quality of service that a user and cloud service provider have agreed upon by contract.

The system further contains a multitude of resource pools host platforms hosting running instances of VMs . Each running VM also has a resource pool profile referred to herein as a Resource Usage Profile HRUP Hosted RUP with which it is associated and that is stored in a resource pool profile registry VM Usage Profile Registry . During initial provisioning of a VM from a VM image the HRUP of the VM will be updated with data from the RUP of the VM image . Throughout the lifetime of the VM a VM Usage Supervisor periodically monitors the actual resource consumption of VMs within a pool and updates their associated HRUPs accordingly. The APIs of each host platform may be used to query resource usage data of running VMs. For example at any point in time it is possible to see how much CPU and memory a VM consumes.

When a new VM is requested by a user a Placement Engine analyzes the resource usage characteristics stored in the RUP associated with the VM image selected by the user. This information may then also be supplemented by leveraging the URUP of the user. The resource usage characteristics may be compared to resource usage profiles of VMs running in different resource pools to find the optimal resource pool where the best fit of predicted resource availability and of predicted resource usage may be determined. Spare resources may be calculated dynamically by comparing the VM resource usage profiles or user specific VM resource usage profiles of all VM images having been instantiated on a particular resource pool with constantly received monitoring data that is indicative of the actual physical resource consumption on the resource pool. Thus any resource shortage may be quickly detected and an existing VM image instance may be moved immediately to another resource pool.

Finally a Resource Manager may be employed to actively and dynamically control the amount and type of resources assigned to running VM instances by freeing up resources and reallocating the resources to new VM instances based on an evaluation of profiles. That is physical resources assigned to running VMs may become un assigned from those VM instances and they may then be used for instantiating and running additional VMs or they may be re assigned to other existing VM image instances. For example this reallocation of resources may be performed using the VM resource usage profiles and or the user specific VM resource usage profile to predict the specific VMs whose instances will most probably not need the resources in a future time period and to reallocate the resource to other VM image instances.

As seen in the plot the resource consumption increases at time t after the virtual machine instance provisioned from the requested VM image has started running. It reaches some maximum resource consumption at time t. The resource consumption is decreased and starts increasing again at time t to reach a second maximum at time t. This is an illustration for example of a user requesting a development machine that usually runs only during the day. This user usually makes use of this kind of machine in a regular working time during the morning time t and the afternoon time t . A production machine not shown may have a different user specific VM resource usage profile depending on the particular use case scenario of an instance of the VM image.

A plot illustrates the current and expected resource consumption by a resource pool holding running virtual machine instances. In this example the running virtual machine instances run batch processes overnight. As illustrated in the plot the resource consumption reaches the maximum during the night at time t and is reduced to its minimum during the day.

A plot illustrates the predicted total resource consumption of the resource pool and the requested user specific VM image. As illustrated in the plot a resource consumption threshold Tr may be specified. This threshold may be used to trigger the placement and instantiation of a new VM on the resource pool for processing.

The selection of the resource pool where the requested VM will be placed may be based on the predicted resource consumption profile of each of the host platforms. If a time period between an initial time ti and final time tf may include the time for the request of VM instance two criteria may be used to select the resource pool to hold such a requested VM instance. A first criterion may indicate that the peak resource usages for any given host platform must not exceed the threshold Tr in the period of time between ti and tf. In the example of the host platform would not satisfy this criterion for the period of time between time t and t. While in the period of time between t and t the host platform will be considered for the final selection since the maximum of consumption does not exceed the threshold Tr . A second criterion may indicate that if there is more than one host platform satisfying the previous first criterion then the one with the least resulting resource consumption as an integral of the superposed resource usage curve between the time ti and time tf is selected.

If no free resource pool also referred to as a host platform may be determined e.g. the requested VM image is predicted not to fit into any host platform based on the current allocation of resources to resource pools the Placement Engine calculates a host platform based on the existing HRUPs and the URUP whose expected resource usage profile provides the best available fit to the resource requirements of the requested VM instance. The resources available in this best fitting host platform may still be not be sufficient for the requirements of the VM image instance in the future but nevertheless the requested VM image is instantiated in the best fitting host platform. Then the Placement Engine determines by evaluating the resource pool profiles of all resource pools and the VM resource usage profile and or the user specific VM resource usage profile which VM instance may not actually need a particular resource at a future moment in time when the instantiated VM image instance requires a resource of the resources type and calculates the resource reduction at step . The result of this determination is used for reallocating the resource to the VM instance actually needing it at that future moment in time. Upon having determined in step that a resource should be reallocated from a first VM image instance to a second VM image instance that may be part of the same or of another resource pool the Placement Engine in step sends a resource reallocation reduction request to the VM Usage Supervisor . The VM Usage Supervisor reallocates one or more resources in accordance with the specifications in the resource reallocation reduction request.

In response to the processing at either step or step in step the Placement Engine sends a request for placement of a VM image instance e.g. a request for instantiation of the VM image to the VM Usage Supervisor . The VM Usage Supervisor creates a new VM image instance on the chosen host platform . The user will be informed about the created VM image instance.

As described above and in more detail below the present subject matter provides an improved approach to optimizing virtual machine images placement in cloud computing environments.

The present technology compares resource consumption profiles of a user that is requesting the virtual machine VM image the requested virtual machine image and each resource pool of the cloud computing environments to find an optimal place for the requested virtual machine instances.

It should be noted that conception of the present subject matter resulted from recognition of certain limitations associated with cloud computing systems. For example it was observed that resource consumption control is a key element in today s cloud deployment infrastructures. It was additionally observed that while cloud systems are perceived to have nearly unlimited resource capabilities they are limited by the hardware resources that are installed by the cloud system provider. As a result it was determined that increased demand leads to an increase of required installed resources which requires solutions for the success of a cloud deployment infrastructure. The present technology improves cloud computing systems by providing for optimizing virtual machine placement in cloud computing environments.

As described above and in more detail below the present technology provides for optimizing the placement of instances of a plurality of virtual machine images in a cloud computing environment. The cloud environment includes multiple resource pools. Each resource pool includes one or more resources. Processing associated with the present technology may include receiving a request of a user for deploying a new instance of one of the virtual machine images the request being indicative of the virtual machine image to be instantiated. While requesting the deployment of the virtual machine image the user optionally selects a user specific VM resource usage profile that becomes the resulting VM resource usage profile. The resulting VM resource usage profile includes first resource consumption data where the first resource consumption data is indicative of a predicted resource consumption for the specific user of the requested instance of the indicated virtual machine image over a first period of time. If the user did not select a user specific VM resource usage profile a VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated virtual machine image is read by a placement engine and the read VM resource usage profile includes first resource consumption data the first resource consumption data being indicative of a predicted resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated virtual machine image over a first period of time. One resource pool profile is read by the placement engine for each of the multiple resources pools each resource pool profile includes second resource consumption data the second resource consumption data is indicative of a predicted resource consumption in the resource pool associated with the resource pool profile over a second period of time and the resource pool profile further includes a current resource consumption on the resource pool. For each of the resource pool profiles the placement engine executes by analyzing the read VM resource usage profile and the read resource pool profile the analysis including aligning the read VM resource usage profile and the read resource pool profiles by aligning the second time period of the read resource pool profiles of the resource pool with the first time period of the read VM resource usage profile calculating an aggregated resource consumption profile being predictive of a total resource consumption on the resource pool by aggregating the resource consumption of the aligned profiles and determining as a result of the analysis of all resource pool profiles the one of the multiple resource pools having the least aggregated resource consumption.

The present technology may be advantageous in that it allows an optimized allocation of cloud resources dependent on usage profiles. The profiles describe the average resource consumption over a period of time e.g. over a couple of hours days weeks etc. . The period of time may cover the current moment in time when executing e.g. the analysis step and may in addition cover future hours days or weeks etc. . Because the predicted time series of resource consumption for a particular virtual machine instance includes more information than an average resource consumption data value lacking the time information a determination of an expected resource consumption of a virtual machine image instance in future time periods may be more accurate. There may be another advantage in that the usage of resource consumption profiles for determining the resource pool having the least aggregated resource consumption may increase the overall efficiency of the cloud system and may ensure its good performance. This is due to the fact that the present technology allows a way of fully automatically and dynamically adapting the instantiation of virtual machine images on a plurality of resource pools in accordance with a dynamically changing workload of the resource pools and requested VM image instances during the run of a day. Another advantage of the present technology is that it may minimize user wait time and thus increase user satisfaction. This is a result of evaluating resource consumption profiles including predicted resource consumption for future moments in time instead of considering only a currently physically monitored workload of the resource pools. As such it is possible using the present technology to instantiate a requested VM image on a resource pool additionally in situations where the VM resource usage profile indicates that the resources required by the requested instance may not be provided by a particular resource pool at the current moment but may be provided according to the resource pool profile of the resource pool at the future moment in time when they are actually needed. This feature is made possible by the fact that the resource pool profiles may additionally cover a future time period and may therefore be indicative of the resources available in a particular resource pool at a later moment in time.

The present technology may further read a user specific VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image and stored in association with an identifier of the user. The user specific VM resource usage profile may include third resource usage data the third resource usage data being indicative of a predicted user specific resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated virtual machine image over the first period of time the user specific resource consumption having been predicted for the user. Additionally present technology may further use the read user specific VM resource usage profile instead of the read VM resource usage profile when executing the analysis.

This processing may be advantageous because combining information from VM resource usage profile and user specific VM resource usage profile may allow for better prediction of resource consumption for individual VMs.

The present technology may further instantiate the indicated VM image on the resource pool having been determined. This processing may provide an advanced way of deploying and instantiating one or more requested VM images on a plurality of available resource pools. Thus a better utilization of available hardware resources such as processors memory and disc space may be reached.

The resource pool having the least resource usage may be selected from the group including the resource pool for which the lowest integral resource consumption value of the aggregated resource consumption profile was calculated and the resource pool for which the lowest integral resource consumption value of the aggregated resource consumption profile was calculated and where the aggregated resource consumption profile doesn t comprise a value exceeding a threshold value. This processing may reduce the overhead that would be caused by running the instances on resource pools having lesser availability resources.

The user specific VM profile may further include rules. The present technology may further apply when executing the analysis the rules on the read VM resource usage profile the read user specific VM resource usage profile and or the read resource pool profiles.

This processing allows the cloud service environment to guarantee that the cloud services are provided in accordance with certain conditions on the cloud computing usage. Such conditions may be a period of allowable time for running an instance of a VM image of a certain type by a specific user on the resource pools. This may ensure an optimal utilization of the resource pools and a fine grained rule based modulation of a mainly resource consumption profile based process of VM image instantiation.

At least some of the rules may include user specific conditions on the number type and or availability of resources. These conditions may be in accordance with a service level agreement SLA . The service level agreements may specify the required quality of service that the user and cloud service provider agreed upon by contract.

Additionally the VM resource usage profiles of at least one of the virtual machine images may be generated by evaluating by a VM usage supervisor module the current resource consumption of all instances of the at least one VM image thereby providing first evaluated data. Predicting the resource consumption of any instance of at least one VM image over the first period of time by evaluating the first evaluated data may be performed. Updating of the VM resource usage profile stored in association with at least one VM image with the predicted resource consumption data may further be performed.

The evaluation of the resource consumption of the VM instance may be performed by retrieving the measured data from physical resources being allocated to that instance. As such the system may be kept updated with the user and or VM image resource requirements which may further avoid a misallocation of resources in a situation where the user and or VM image requirement evolves with respect to the initial requirements.

Further the user specific VM resource usage profile of at least one of the VM images may be generated by monitoring by a VM usage supervisor module the current resource consumption of all instances of at least one VM image whose instantiation has been requested by the user thereby providing second monitoring data. Predicting the resource consumption of any instance of at least one VM image to be requested by the user over the second period of time by evaluating the second monitoring data may be performed. Updating of the user specific VM resource usage profile stored in association with at least one VM image with the predicted resource consumption data may further be performed.

As such user specific requirements may be taken into consideration when generating the user specific VM resource usage profiles. Where the requirements change over time an updated version of the user specific VM resource usage profile may be provided and may be used for determining the resource pool with the less aggregate resource consumption.

As an additional variation the resource pool profiles may be generated by executing for each of the resource pools monitoring of the number and type of resources of the resource pool allocated to one of the one or more VM image instances running on the resource pool thereby providing second monitoring data. The second monitoring data may include a measured physical assignment of resources to virtual machine image instances over the second period of time. Superposing the second monitoring data obtained for all virtual machine image instances running on the resource pool may be performed thereby generating a superposed resource consumption profile for the resource pool. Using the superposed resource consumption profile for generating and or updating the resource pool profile of the resource pool may further be performed.

As such the overall resource usage deduced from every running virtual machine instance of a particular resource pool may provide a good estimation of the resource utilization of a resource pool which may therefore allow a better allocation of the resources.

Further each VM image instance running on one of the resource pools may be assigned one or more resources of the resource pool. In such circumstances the present technology may determine by the VM usage supervisor all resources in at least one resource pool being unoccupied over the second time period. The determination may be executed by subtracting the aggregated resource consumption profile from a known number of all resources of at least one resource pool. Additionally processing may be performed by determining for the requested virtual machine image instance to be instantiated on at least one resource pool one or more currently required resources by evaluating the VM resource usage profile or the user specific VM resource usage profile of the indicated virtual machine image. If the number of resources of a first resource type determined to be required by the requested instance exceeds the determined number of currently unoccupied resources of the first resource type the processing may continue by triggering by the placement engine the instantiation of the requested virtual machine image instance on another resource pool.

As such the present technology may guarantee that even in a situation where the actual resource consumption of the VM image instances running on a particular resource pool may be larger than predicted and exceed the number of actual available resources in a particular resource pool an automated and intelligent handling of the situation may be provided. The present technology may further move a running instance of a VM image from a first resource pool to another in the case where the first resource pool is determined to lack sufficient unoccupied resources. These features may avoid unplanned terminations of VM image instances when the resource requirements by the instances are no longer satisfied.

A resource manager may perform a reallocation of resources having been allocated to the deployed virtual machine upon its instantiation. In determining one of the virtual machine image instances to which the resource is to be reallocated the aggregated resource consumption profiles may be used as input. As such resources that have been assigned to a particular VM image instance that are actually not needed by the instance may be freed for usage by one or more other resources.

Updating of the resource pool specific resource consumption profiles of the resource pools with new resource consumption data may be performed as a result of the reallocation of resources or from the movement of the virtual machine image instance.

Additionally the first and second time periods of each of the VM resource usage profiles and the resource pool profiles may include a set of reading points separated from each other by a predefined time period. Each reading point may include a resource consumption data value for each of a plurality of resource types and each of the resource consumption data values may be a prediction result calculated from monitored physical resource consumption.

Further each VM image may be stored in association with a usage type specific VM resource usage profile. A usage type may be for example development test production or other usage type as appropriate for a given implementation. Processing may further include receiving an indicator of a requested usage type. The requested usage type may specify how the requested VM image instance will be used by the requesting user. Typically the requested usage type is one of a set of predefined usage types. The requested usage type may be received for example together with the user s request for instantiating one of the virtual machine images. The processing may additionally include determining for the VM image indicated in the user s request the usage type specific VM resource usage profile and using the determined usage type specific VM resource usage profile as the VM resource usage profile that is read for executing the analysis of the profiles for determining the resource pool having the least aggregated resource consumption.

Additionally the resource consumption specified in the VM resource usage profile and or the user specific VM resource usage profile may be used to determine if the resources required by the requested virtual machine image instance in one or more future moments of time will be available in at least one resource pool in one or more future moments in time.

In a further aspect the present subject matter relates to a computer readable storage medium that includes computer readable instructions which when executed by a processor computer cause the processor computer to perform any of the processing described above and below.

A computer system may include a storage device comprising a plurality of VM images multiple resource pools each resource pool comprising one or more resources and an interface adapted for receiving a request of a user for deploying a new instance of one of the VM images the request being indicative of the VM image to be instantiated. A placement engine may be adapted for reading a VM resource usage profile stored in association with the indicated VM image the read VM resource usage profile including first resource consumption data and the first resource consumption data being indicative of a predicted resource consumption of the requested instance of the indicated VM image over a first period of time. The placement engine may further be adapted for reading one resource pool profile for each of the multiple resources pools each resource pool specific profile including second resource consumption data the second resource consumption data being indicative of a predicted resource consumption in the resource pool associated with the resource pool profile over a second period of time and the resource pool profile further including a current resource consumption on the resource pool. The placement engine may further be adapted for analyzing for each of the resource pool profiles the read VM resource usage profile and the resource pool profile the analysis including aligning the read VM resource usage profile and the read resource pool profiles by aligning the second time period of the read resource pool profiles of the resource pool with the first time period of the read VM resource usage profile. The placement engine may further be adapted to calculate for each of the resource pool profiles an aggregated resource consumption profile being predictive of a total resource consumption on the resource pool by aggregating the resource consumption of the aligned profiles. Additionally the placement engine may be adapted for determine as a result of the analysis of all resource pool profiles the one of the multiple resource pools having the least aggregated resource usage.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention have been described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

