---

title: System and method for processing instant messages
abstract: Various aspects relate to using structured messages within systems that implement instant messaging function in a distributed computing environment. In particular, structured information may be encoded and embedded in unstructured instant messages and communicated among one or more computer systems, networks, applications or other entities. In one aspect, instant messaging may be leveraged as middleware for application integration. Other aspects relate to using structured message information to perform functions in a distributed instant messaging system. For example, structured message information may be used to control the display of instant message information to a user, or may be used to control how the instant message information is distributed, processed, or otherwise handled by a receiving system, application or process. Other aspects relate to an interface for displaying information relating to a number of instant messaging conversations to a user. Further, aspects relate to using instant messaging in a trading environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745147&OS=08745147&RS=08745147
owner: Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.
number: 08745147
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This application is a Continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 241 884 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROCESSING INSTANT MESSAGES which was filed on Sep. 30 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The field of the invention relates generally to communication networks and more particularly to the use of instant messaging for communicating between entities.

In trading of equities equity options fixed income energy foreign currency derivatives etc. collectively referred to herein as securities have been traded in this country since the late 1700s. Traditionally such securities have been traded on floor based exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange NYSE or the American Stock Exchange AMEX . The predominant method of trading in these floor based environments is known as the open outcry system which involves oral communications between market professionals at a central location in open view of other market professionals. In this system an order is typically relayed out to a trader standing in a pit. The trader shouts out that he has received an order and waits until a broker shouts back contract terms and a trading transaction then results. In an effort to preserve this antiquated system of floor based trading the implementation of computer based technology in the exchanges has been slow. However some trading processes have been automated or partially automated.

Instant messaging sometimes referred to as IM or IMing is commonly used to communicate between computer users in an instantaneous manner. There are many different applications that support instant messaging such as for example the well known AOL Instant Messenger AIM Microsoft s Network Messenger services MSN and Yahoo s Yahoo Messenger application program Google s Google Talk application program among others. Such application programs run on the number of different platforms including personal computers PCs mobile phones PDAs or other environments. IM differs from ordinary e mail in that there is immediacy in the message exchange and also instant messaging makes a continued exchange of messages simpler than sending e mail back and forth. Most communications are text only.

To access an IM service a user registers with a service provider and after connecting to the Internet or other appropriate data network enters the user s screen name and password to login to an IM network. Popular IM applications include AOL s Instant Messenger AIM Microsoft s Network Messenger Services MSN and Yahoo s Yahoo Messenger. Once a user has logged in to an appropriate IM network his her presence on the system is made known to all authorized partners commonly termed buddies . The user can then engage in free form textual conversations with other IM users connected to the system.

A recent development in trading includes the use of Instant Messaging functionality to communicate instructions to a trader that in turn performs securities trading functions on behalf of clients. It is beneficial to use such in instant messaging functions for communicating time sensitive information. However according to one aspect of the invention it is realized that it is difficult to manage large amounts of instant message information using conventional instant messaging applications and their associated interfaces.

It is appreciated that instant messaging is typically used by individuals as a method of collaborating with one another by sending simple text messages. Apart from formatting markup e.g. font color instant messaging applications send receive unstructured free text strings. According to one aspect it appreciated that structured messaging may be used to permit sending applications or other entities to embed semantic information in a text message that can be interpreted by the receiving application that could be used to guide application functionality. Stated differently structured messaging may permit instant messaging technology to be leveraged as middleware for application integration.

Generally structured messages may be used for performing different classes of functions within a distributed computing environment. Structured instant messages may be used for application integration presentation functions control functions and translation functions.

There are many different uses for structured instant messages within the distributed computing environment. In one application a system e.g. a client computer system may be capable of creating an instant message and generating structured information within the instant message. The instant message containing the structured information may be sent to other destinations e.g. a client server software application computer system etc. . The structured information may be interpreted by a receiving system and various actions may be taken in response to the structured content. For instance structured content may determine how the instant message is displayed routed or processed may cause an action to be performed by the receiving system or any intermediate system receiving the instant message. In one embodiment the receiving system may be adapted to use the structured information within the instant message.

According to another embodiment a processor may be provided that is capable of receiving unstructured instant message content and adding structure to the instant message which can be transmitted to other systems. In such a case the processor may receive an unstructured instant message e.g. from a client system network or other entity modifies the instant message to include structure information and send the modified instant message to one or more destinations. This may be useful for example when a client running a conventional instant message application does not have the native ability to add structure to instant messages and it is desired that the instant message sent by a client have structure. Also instant messages that originate from networks that do not have the capability of generating structure could have structure added to these messages by a suitable processor.

As discussed above one or more destinations may be capable of using structured information. In one embodiment a grid is provided that displays information relating a number of different instant message conversations. For instance such a grid may be provided as part of an application program provided to a user permitting the user to view information relating to multiple conversations displayed in the grid.

It is appreciated that in conventional instant message application interfaces e.g. the AOL Instant Messenger application messages are displayed serially in the instant message interface as they are received at a client workstation. However it is appreciated that some environments that use instant messaging hundreds if not thousands of instant messages may be received at a client and a user may be required to respond to only a subset of the received messages. In a conventional instant messaging application interface it is impractical to view and respond to a large amount of messages. Because according to one embodiment a number of different conversations may be displayed in a more convenient manner the user is more capable of processing large numbers of instant messages using the interface.

According to one embodiment the structure may indicate where within an instant message particular information resides. For instance in the case of a ticker symbol IBM appearing in an unstructured portion of a message the structured information may indicate where within the unstructured text the ticker symbol appears. To this end an instant message processor may be provided that processes unstructured portions of a message and identifies relevant content.

According to another aspect it is appreciated that may be helpful to send structured information in an instant message that is capable of being interpreted by a destination and performing some function or action. Control or command information may be encoded within the instant message. This control information may be used for example to perform control functions associated with a receiving system adjust display parameters for information that is displayed to a user at a client workstation forward the instant message to particular destinations or to perform other functions or action relating to instant messages. Such control information may be used for example by applications systems or other entities that are configured to process instant messages.

Examples of such applications that use structured messages include an order management server that uses information within instant messages to perform financial transactions an instant message interface such as a message grid that can present instant message information to a user in a structured way a software process that forwards instant messages to one or more users e.g. a software process that directs instant messages to different traders computers or applications or any other application configured to use instant message information.

According to one embodiment the control information is embedded within an area of the instant message that is unused by the particular instant message application. For instance the Yahoo Messenger application program may not recognize information in a particular area of the instant message and therefore the application program does not provide an error or otherwise respond to the information within this area of the instant message. Thus an intervening system can modify a received instant message by embedding control information within this unrecognized area yet not disturb the processing or display of the instant message by the standard Yahoo Messenger application program. In this way the instant messaging network may be used as a vehicle for supporting higher end applications using instant messaging as a transport layer yet not break existing instant message services as a result.

Yet another aspect of the present invention relates to a system that is capable of creating using structured instant messages in a trading environment. It is appreciated that many different systems may be capable of interpreting and displaying instant messages particularly when being used in a trading environment. For instance in a system that uses instant messaging to perform purchases e.g. in an order management system instant messages may be used to place confirm and place orders for securities. It is appreciated that although instant messaging is used by users to convey business critical data it is generally unusable by other applications because the content has no structure and therefore is not semantically parsable. By adding structure to the instant message applications such as pricing systems risk management systems order management systems etc. can receive and process business critical data contained within the instant message because the modified instant message contains structure that can be easily parsed.

For instance in a system that uses instant messaging examples of structured content that could be could be inserted into an instant message that controls how the instant message is handled may include 

In the case of an order management system that performs purchasing functions structured content may be used to initiate actions within an order management system.

Other types of systems may also benefit from information generated within instant messaging networks. For example a pricing risk system that determines based on historical trading information the expected volatility and price for a particular stock. However it may be useful to have current information regarding a particular stock to more accurately determine pricing. Also in the case of a derivatives market where there is not enough historical information on the derivative to determine risk or price it may be helpful to have current information to more accurately set pricing. In one embodiment instant message data may be used to provide additional information for such applications.

According to one embodiment it may be desirable that one or more of these functions may be performed by an automated system that interprets such instant messages. According to one aspect it may be beneficial to add structure to instant messages to perform additional functions such as display control and or handling of instant messages and the trading information that they hold. Because instant messages can be structured applications may be capable of processing such instant messages in an efficient manner. Further tools may be provided that leverage such structures so that users may more easily view instant message information.

According to one aspect of the present invention in a distributed computer system a method for processing instant message information is provided. The method comprises acts of at a client computer permitting a user to create at least one instant message the at least one message having a plurality of unstructured content generating at the client computer at least one portion of structured content inserting the at least one portion of structured content within the at least one instant message and transmitting the at least one instant message to a destination. According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of generating includes determining based on an input of a user at the client computer the at least one portion of structured content. According to another embodiment of the present invention the act of generating further includes acts of receiving an element of structure from the user through an interface of an instant messaging application and inserting the element of structure in the at least one message. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of processing the unstructured content and identifying at least one attribute within the unstructured content and wherein the act of inserting further comprises an act of inserting the at least one identified attribute within the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the act inserting the at least one portion of structured content includes an act of inserting a code.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the code describes a format of the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code describes an action to be taken by the destination. According to another embodiment of the invention the code includes one or more codes that identify the locations of one or more elements residing within the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises acts of processing the unstructured content and modifying the unstructured content responsive to act of processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of formatting the unstructured context responsive to the act of processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of processing the unstructured content further comprises an act of parsing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of parsing the unstructured content is performed at the client computer.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of transmitting further comprises an act of sending the at least one instant message to an instant messaging network. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of receiving at another client computer system the at least one instant message and displaying information contained in the at least one instant message in a manner responsive to the structured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of inserting the code includes an act of inserting the code in an area of the at least one instant message that is not made visible to a user of an instant message application program. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of determining a type of instant message application program that receives the at least one instant message and wherein the act of inserting the code in the area of the at least one instant message includes selectively inserting the code in the message responsive to the determined type of instant message application program.

According to one aspect of the present invention a client computer system comprises means for permitting a user to create at least one instant message the at least one message having a plurality of unstructured content means for generating at the client computer at least one portion of structured content means for inserting the at least one portion of structured content within the at least one instant message and means for transmitting the at least one instant message to a destination. According to one embodiment of the present invention the means for generating includes means for determining based on an input of a user at the client computer the at least one portion of structured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for generating further includes means for receiving an element of structure from the user through an interface of an instant messaging application and means for inserting the element of structure in the at least one message. According to another embodiment of the invention the client computer system further comprises means for processing the unstructured content and identifying at least one attribute within the unstructured content and wherein the means for inserting further comprises means for inserting the at least one identified attribute within the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for inserting the at least one portion of structured content includes means for inserting a code.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the code describes a format of the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code describes an action to be taken by the destination. According to another embodiment of the invention the code includes one or more codes that identify the locations of one or more elements residing within the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the client computer system further comprises acts of processing the unstructured content and modifying the unstructured content responsive to the means for processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the client computer system further comprises means for formatting the unstructured context responsive to the means for processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for processing the unstructured content further comprises means for parsing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for parsing the unstructured content is performed at the client computer. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for transmitting further comprises means for sending the at least one instant message to an instant messaging network. According to another embodiment of the invention the client computer system further comprises means for receiving at another client computer system the at least one instant message and displaying information contained in the at least one instant message in a manner responsive to the structured content.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the means for inserting the code includes means for inserting the code in an area of the at least one instant message that is not made visible to a user of an instant message application program. According to another embodiment of the invention the client computer system further comprises means for determining a type of instant message application program that receives the at least one instant message and wherein the means for inserting the code in the area of the at least one instant message includes selectively inserting the code in the message responsive to the determined type of instant message application program.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computer system performs a method for processing instant message information.

According to one aspect of the present invention in a distributed computer system a method for processing instant message information is provided. The method comprises acts of at a receiver receiving at least one instant message the at least one message having a plurality of unstructured content and at least one portion of structured content decoding the at least one portion of structured content within the at least one instant message and performing an action responsive to the decoded structured content. According to one embodiment of the present invention the receiver of the at least one instant message includes an instant message processor. According to another embodiment of the invention the receiver of the at least one instant message includes a destination entity. According to another embodiment of the invention the destination entity is at least one of a group comprising an intermediate system an end system a client computer system a server an application a database and a network. According to another embodiment of the invention the at least one portion of structured content includes a code. According to another embodiment of the invention the code identifies at least one attribute within the plurality of unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code describes a format of the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code describes an action to be taken by the receiver of the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the code identifies a location of at least one element residing within the plurality of unstructured content.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises acts of identifying a conversation associated with the at least one instant message and displaying at the receiver to a user within an interface of a display of the receiver information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying in respective rows of a message grid the information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying responsive to receiving the code at least one portion of the unstructured message in a particular row of the message grid associated with the respective conversation.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer system comprises means for receiving at least one instant message the at least one message having a plurality of unstructured content and at least one portion of structured content means for decoding the at least one portion of structured content within the at least one instant message and means for performing an action responsive to the decoded structured content. According to one embodiment of the present invention the receiver of the at least one instant message includes an instant message processor. According to another embodiment of the invention the receiver of the at least one instant message includes a destination entity. According to another embodiment of the invention the destination entity is at least one of a group comprising an intermediate system an end system a client computer system a server an application a database and a network. According to another embodiment of the invention the at least one portion of structured content includes a code. According to another embodiment of the invention the code identifies at least one attribute within the plurality of unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code describes a format of the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code describes an action to be taken by the receiver of the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the code identifies a location of at least one element residing within the plurality of unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for identifying a conversation associated with the at least one instant message and means for displaying at the receiver to a user within an interface of a display of the receiver information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying in respective rows of a message grid the information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying responsive to receiving the code at least one portion of the unstructured message in a particular row of the message grid associated with the respective conversation.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computer system performs a method for processing instant message information.

According to one aspect of the present invention in a distributed computer system a method for processing instant message information is provided. The method comprises act of receiving at least one instant message originated at a client computer the at least one message having a plurality of unstructured content processing the unstructured content and identifying at least one attribute within the unstructured content modifying the received at least one instant message to include structured content including the at least one identified attribute and forwarding the modified at least one instant message to a destination. According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of modifying includes an act of inserting a code that describes a format of the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code includes one or more codes that identify the locations of one or more elements residing within the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of modifying the unstructured content responsive to the act of processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of formatting the unstructured context responsive to the act of processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of parsing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of parsing the unstructured content is performed by an instant message processor. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of forwarding further comprises an act of sending the at least one instant message to an instant messaging network. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of receiving at a client computer system the modified at least one instant message and displaying information contained in the modified at least one instant message in a manner responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of forwarding the modified at least one instant message to a destination responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying information contained in the modified at least one instant message in a message grid responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises acts of receiving at the destination a plurality of instant messages from a plurality of users identifying a plurality of conversations each of which is associated with at least one of the plurality of users and displaying an interface that shows a user of the client computer information relating to of the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying in respective rows of a message grid the information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute at least one portion of the unstructured message in a particular row of the message grid associated with a respective conversation. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying at least one portion of the unstructured message in a display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of determining a formatting of the unstructured message in the display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the distributed computer system includes a securities trading system and wherein the securities trading system is responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of parsing a character string included in a body of the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of inserting the code that describes a format of the unstructured content includes an act of inserting the code in an area of the at least one instant message that is not visible to a receiving instant message application program.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer system including an instant message processor is provided. The processor comprises means for receiving at least one instant message originated at a client computer the at least one message having a plurality of unstructured content means for processing the unstructured content and identifying at least one attribute within the unstructured content means for modifying the received at least one instant message to include structured content including the at least one identified attribute and means for forwarding the modified at least one instant message to a destination. According to one embodiment of the present invention means for modifying includes means for inserting a code that describes a format of the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the code includes one or more codes that identify the locations of one or more elements residing within the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for modifying the unstructured content responsive to the act of processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for formatting the unstructured context responsive to the act of processing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for parsing the unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of parsing the unstructured content is performed by an instant message processor. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of forwarding further comprises means for sending the at least one instant message to an instant messaging network.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the computer system further comprises means for receiving at a client computer system the modified at least one instant message and displaying information contained in the modified at least one instant message in a manner responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for forwarding the modified at least one instant message to a destination responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying information contained in the modified at least one instant message in a message grid responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises acts of receiving at the destination a plurality of instant messages from a plurality of users identifying a plurality of conversations each of which is associated with at least one of the plurality of users and displaying an interface that shows a user of the client computer information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying in respective rows of a message grid the information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute at least one portion of the unstructured message in a particular row of the message grid associated with a respective conversation. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying at least one portion of the unstructured message in a display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the computer system further comprises means for determining a formatting of the unstructured message in the display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the distributed computer system includes a securities trading system and wherein the securities trading system is responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for parsing a character string included in a body of the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for inserting the code that describes a format of the unstructured content includes means for inserting the code in an area of the at least one instant message that is not visible to a receiving instant message application program.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computer system performs a method for processing instant message information.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer system comprises an instant message processor the processor further comprises a storage entity adapted to store a plurality of received instant messages a parser adapted to parse at least one received instant message the at least one received instant message including a plurality of unstructured content and a formatter adapted to format the at least one received instant message according to at least one formatting rule and create at least one modified instant message. According to one embodiment of the present invention the parser is adapted to identify at least one attribute within the plurality of unstructured content. According to another embodiment of the invention the formatter is adapted to include content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the formatter is adapted to insert a code into the at least one modified instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the code includes one or more codes that identify the location of one or more elements residing within the plurality of unstructured content.

According to one aspect of the present invention in a distributed computer system a method for processing instant message information is provided. The method comprises acts of receiving at a client computer a plurality of instant messages from a plurality of users identifying a plurality of conversations each of which is associated with at least one of the plurality of users and displaying an interface that shows a user of the client computer information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of displaying in respective rows of a message grid the information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the act of receiving the plurality of instant messages includes an act of receiving at least one instant message having modified information having structured content including at least one attribute identified from unstructured content of the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute at least one portion of the unstructured message in a particular row of the message grid associated with a respective conversation. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of displaying at least one portion of the unstructured message in a display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises an act of determining a formatting of the unstructured message in the display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the distributed computer system includes a securities trading system and wherein the securities trading system is responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of modifying a display attribute of the display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the display attribute is an attribute of a message grid and where the display attribute of the message grid is controlled responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the structured content is inserted in a predetermined area in the at least one instant message wherein the information within the predetermined area does not affect a presentation of the instant message within a display of an instant message application program. According to another embodiment of the invention the structured content is selectively inserted by an instant message processor in the predetermined area based on a type of an instant message application program being executed at the client computer.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a distributed computer system including a client computer system comprises means for receiving at the client computer system a plurality of instant messages from a plurality of users means for identifying a plurality of conversations each of which is associated with at least one of the plurality of users and means for displaying an interface that shows a user of the client computer information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to one embodiment of the present invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying in respective rows of a message grid the information relating to the plurality of conversations. According to another embodiment of the invention the means for receiving the plurality of instant messages includes means for receiving at least one instant message having modified information having structured content including at least one attribute identified from unstructured content of the at least one instant message. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute at least one portion of the unstructured message in a particular row of the message grid associated with a respective conversation. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for displaying at least one portion of the unstructured message in a display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for determining a formatting of the unstructured message in the display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the distributed computer system includes a securities trading system and wherein the securities trading system is responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the computer system further comprises means for modifying a display attribute of the display responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the display attribute is an attribute of a message grid and wherein the display attribute of the message grid is controlled responsive to the structured content including the at least one identified attribute. According to another embodiment of the invention the structured content is inserted in a predetermined area in the at least one instant message wherein the information within the predetermined area does not affect a presentation of the instant message within a display of an instant message application program. According to another embodiment of the invention the structured content is selectively inserted by an instant message processor in the predetermined area based on a type of an instant message application program being executed at the client computer.

According to one aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computer system performs a method a method for processing instant message information.

This invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

As discussed above aspects of the present invention relate to using instant messaging for performing trading functions within trading system. It should be appreciated however that various aspects may be used in other systems that implement instant messaging functions. Other aspects of the present invention relate to using structured message information to perform functions in a distributed instant messaging system.

Generally a user may be provided with one or more computer interfaces in which the user can compose and send instant messages to other users as well as receive and view instant messages. As discussed conventional instant messages are used to send unstructured text information between users. According to one embodiment of the present invention an instant messaging processor is provided that is capable of modifying unstructured messages to create structured messages which can be used to perform functions in the distributed instant messaging network.

For instance a client application system or other entity may include a program e.g. an instant messaging application program that is configured to create and process instant messages having structured information. In one example a specialized instant message application program may be adapted to create structured information within instant messages that are communicated to other entities and process received instant messages having structured information.

In yet another embodiment a client system may provided that is capable of displaying information from multiple instant message conversations within a display of the client computer system. For instance the client system may include an application program that is capable of interpreting instant message information from multiple instant messages and displaying extracted information from those instant messages in a display e.g. display of a client computer system. This program may according to one embodiment be configured to process instant messages extract information and display information relating to particular conversations within specified areas of the display.

In another embodiment a distributed computer system includes an instant messaging processor e.g. processor which is capable of producing structured instant messages from unstructured instant messages that are received from various entities. For instance instant messaging processor may be an intermediate system capable of receiving unstructured instant messages from one or more entities modifying the instant messages to include structure and sending the modified instant messages to one or more destinations. According to one embodiment it may be useful for an intermediate system to add structure to an unstructured message stream.

Distributed system includes a user A operating a client computer A. Client computer A includes an interface that permits user A to create and send an instant message to another user e.g. user A . One or more users A E may be the intended or unintended recipients of the instant message and these users may themselves create send and view instant messages on one or more client computer systems A E. According to one embodiment instant messaging processor reviews unstructured content of an instant message and modifies the instant message to include one or more structured attributes.

These attributes may be used by another computer process or user to perform one or more functions or handle the instant message and its content in a particular way. As discussed above instant messages may be used as a form of communication to permit instant messages to be processed in a particular way or cause certain actions to be performed. For instance structured messages received by a client may be rendered in any way that makes it easier for the end user to locate information of interest. For instance received messages can be displayed in a tabular view wherein discrete attributes identified by the structured instant message can be organized within the tabular view.

In another example structured messages received by an instant messaging application executing on a computer system can be used to direct where the instant message is sent. For instance in a trading application the ticker symbol IBM may be recognized from unstructured text within the instant message and structured information indicating this symbol can be added to the instant message. A computer system that receives and processes instant messages can be configured to respond to this particular symbol and direct the instant message to a number of traders and or systems that cover ticker symbol IBM. 

In yet another example it is appreciated that although instant messaging is used by users to convey business critical data it is generally unusable by other applications because the content has no structure and therefore is not semantically parsable. By adding structure to the instant message applications such as pricing systems risk management systems order management systems etc. can receive and process business critical data contained within the instant message because the modified instant message contains structure that can be easily parsed.

In yet another example structured message information may be added to an instant message such that the normal display and operation of conventional instant message applications such as Yahoo Messenger AOL Instant Messenger AIM Microsoft s Messenger Services MSN instant messaging application program e.g. Windows Live Messenger application program and other application programs may function in their normal way while still supporting other application program functions.

At block the end system creates structured information to be included within an instant message. For example a client computer may include an instant message application program or other type of program that is capable of generating structured information within an instant message. The structured information may be determined for example from unstructured text by the user. In another example the instant messaging application program may be capable of accepting structured information from a user and encoding that information within the instant message. For instance in an interface of the instant message application program a user may enter a ticker symbol e.g. IBM select a menu option dialog box or provide any other type of input that when interpreted by the instant message application program causes the instant message application program to add structure to an instant message. Such interface controls may be separate from a regular chat window used to enter freeform text in a message and may permit the user to add structure directly to the message.

At block the end system sends the instant message to a destination. As discussed instant messages may be transmitted to any number and type of destinations including but not limited to application programs systems e.g. clients servers etc. databases networks or other entity capable of processing structured information encoded within instant messages. At block process ends.

For example a user may send an instant message having unstructured text Buy 100 IBM at . A parser configured to process the unstructured text may include a grammar that identifies the verb buy the ticker symbol IBM and the amounts relative to the verb and the ticker symbol. This identified information may be placed in a modified instant message to form a modified message e.g. at block and forwarded to one or more systems in the instant messaging network e.g. networks or other networks at block . At block process for processing the instant message ends. According to one embodiment process may continue indefinitely in order to process instant messages received from one or more client computer systems.

In the example below an encoding scheme may be created that may be used for adding structure to instant messages. According to one embodiment a minimal amount of information is added to an instant message to identify where within the instant message text information of relevance to a system user or application may be found. For instance such information may be used to determine the behavior of a system that receives the instant message.

In the example above an instant message may be received having the unstructured text Buy 100 IBM at . A parser configured to analyze the unstructured text may be capable of identifying tokens such as ticker symbols e.g. IBM and verbs in relation to those ticker symbols e.g. the verb Buy . Amounts can be recognized in relation to the verbs and ticker symbols e.g. buy 100 at .

According to one embodiment structure may be encoded within the instant message to indicate where within the unstructured message the information may be found. In one example the encoding may specify at what position within the unstructured text that tokens verbs amounts etc. may be positioned. This position information may be placed within an outgoing instant message and sent to a receiver. The receiver may be configured to decode this position information and perform actions depending on the information encoded within the instant message.

In one implementation single letters or other symbols are used to represent semantics within the unstructured message. For instance the following semantics may be represented in the form . . . wherein symbol 1 N represents different types of elements found within the unstructured text of the instant message and the length indicates the length of the text within the message. For instance an example coding approach may represent semantics by 

Z a semantic that indicates a certain number of characters in the message should be ignored or skipped

Where code A3 indicates the verb Buy having a text length of 3 the Z1 code indicates that one text character should be skipped the code B3 indicates a recognized amount 100 having a character length of 3 and so on. Thus the code may indicate where in the unstructured message relevant information appears and this code may be used to affect processing of the instant message or to perform some other action. Although the above code is shown by way of example it should be appreciated that other encoding techniques may be used to communicate information using instant messages.

This code which describes where in the unstructured text the relevant information appears can also be inserted into an outgoing instant message to a receiver. According to one embodiment the code is inserted in an area of the message that does not affect a client application that does not understand the code. For instance in the AOL IM application there is a section of the instant message that is neither inspected by the AOL IM application nor is the information displayed within a window of the application. Other IM applications may use different areas of the IM message and the message may be formatted selectively depending on the destination of the instant message.

In particular using the AOL AIM application it has been determined that encoded information may be included in an HTML comment area as information in this area is not rendered within the interface of the AOL AIM client. In the Yahoo Instant Messenger application however it has been determined that typeface tags within an instant message may be used to encode information. For instance the code may be encoded as the name of the typeface tag and the typeface tag may be applied to the end of the message as a typeface tag appearing at the end of a message does not change the typeface of any information previously within the message. Another issue with the Yahoo Instant Messenger application is that typeface tags are automatically changed to lower case and if a code is chosen that is case sensitive another form of encoding may be necessary. Alternatively the well known uuencoding method may be used at a sender to encode the case sensitive code information and use uudecoding at a receiver to extract the case sensitive code. Although the above encoding examples may be used to facilitate different aspects of the present invention it should be appreciated that other coding methods may be used. Below are several coding examples that may be used with the Yahoo Messenger and AOL AIM application programs.

The structure is embedded in the font face value of a tag. If the structure is attached at the end of the message the added structure is ignored by a standard Yahoo Messenger client because the tag is used to describe the font to be applied to the text string following the tag. The text in bold contains the message structure which is uuencoded in the following encoding 

In another coding example using the AOL IM application program the message xz bos fence 99.75 100 is sent over an AOL network as a structured message 

The structure is embedded in a tag. An AOL AIM client ignores html meta tags such as and therefore these types of meta tags may be inserted within a message and may carry encoded information.

In this way the encoding may be a self describing format. If the encoding is upgraded at the instant messaging processor certain codes may be added that are not understood at the receiving node. If the code is understood by a particular receiving node an action may be performed as a result. If not the receiving node may just ignore the message. Also certain receiving node types may have one or more codes that they respond to others that they ignore. For instance a message code that relates to presentation of the information in the message grid may be ignored by a node that just forwards messages.

Further an instant message processor according to one embodiment may be capable of modifying the unstructured content of a message. For instance in the example above if the amount 1000 is recognized in the unstructured text by the instant message processor the unstructured text may be modified to read 1000 shares of and the message may be sent on to the receiver in this format. In this way the instant message processor may be capable of identifying meaning within instant messages and translating that meaning to presentation or actions to be performed by a receiving system. For instance an instant message processor may inspect the term IBM and insert a command in a modified instant message to be sent to a user to ring a bell at the user s computer.

As discussed above one more systems may be capable of using structured instant message information to perform various functions in relation to the received instant message. shows one example of how structured message information may be used by a receiver of instant messages having structured information e.g. as received by a client computer system A . At block process begins.

At block a computer receives one or more instant messages e.g. an instant message received at a client computer A . At block when a more attributes or other criteria is identified within the instant message at the receiving system. At block the client system is programmed to extract information from one of more instant messages based on criteria defined at the receiver. For instance the client system may be programmed to identify the ticker symbol IBM and display information retrieved from message to a user. At block the extracted information may be processed by the receiver. For instance and as a result of this processing the extracted information may be displayed stored in a database changed cause one or more functions to be executed cause the instant message to be transmitted to further destinations or cause any other action to be performed at the receiving entity.

Further an instant message processor according to one embodiment may be capable of determining the presentation of information in the message grid based on what structured information is added to the instant message. In one example below that displays information relevant to a Weather derivatives market information may be encoded within in the HTML text of an instant message and adjusted based on what is desired to be displayed. Below is an example HTML text field of an instant message 

Thus in summary certain codes may be correlated with how the information may be displayed within the message grid. How the codes are created may be adjusted for example by an administrator that controls how the instance message processor parses and modifies instant messages by the user depending on how the user would like to view instant message information by a set of rules or other criteria.

In one implementation interface may include a message grid having a number of rows and columns. In one embodiment message grid may display one or more attributes relating to the structured messages that are received. For instance attributes such as the message sender recipient spending time receipt time or other attribute may be displayed within grid . One example grid may include individual columns that correspond to various attributes that are displayed.

Further according to one embodiment message grid may include rows associated with various conversations being maintained by a user on the client computer. As discussed in a trading environment a trader may be able to receive a number of different messages from various users relating to buy and sell orders to be placed in a trading system. Also as discussed above it may be useful to see the status of various instant messaging conversations within a single interface. To this end a row may be assigned to a particular conversation e.g. conversation A element A and when messages are received relating to this conversation the information displayed within the row may be updated. Other conversations e.g. conversations B Z items B Z may also be tracked and responsive to messages relating to those particular conversations message grid may be updated in the appropriate row and column

Various aspects of message grid may be activated based on information received within an instant message. For example when an instant message is received that corresponds to one of the monitored conversations the row associated with that conversation may be highlighted. Further information extracted from structured message may cause various interface features to be enabled or disabled. For instance if a buy order is received within a message e.g. a particular verb is recognized from the message on structured text a particular interface feature may be enabled activated disabled or deactivated e.g. the row entry of the conversation changes color . In another example advertisements displayed to a user within the interface may be modified based on attributes identified within the structured message. For instance if a person spends a buy order for ticker symbol IBM an advertisement for IBM servers may be displayed within an application window displayed to the user.

Interface may include other interface features such as allowing a user to certain conversations e.g. rows to display the detailed exchange of messages which underlie the row entry. Grid may also permit the user to search and or organize grid entries based on one or more of attributes . Further grid may include an interface feature that permits a user to filter or otherwise selectively view sets of messages. For example in a trading environment a particular trader may wish to see conversation information relating to particular securities sectors tickers markets etc. or see particular conversations relating to clients whom they represent. To this end interface may include one or more controls e.g. a dropdown menu popup or other control type to permit the user to selectively enter attributes and or other relations e.g. rules that determine what information is displayed by grid .

A client process application or system may perform other actions responses to control information embedded in a structured instant message. As discussed above a server that processes instant messages daily configured through route particular messages based on the structured information. In one example messages having the ticker symbol IBM may be routed automatically through a number of different triggers that trade IBM securities. In another example instant messages may be routed to different systems based on the information in the structured instant message. For example a buy verb recognized within a particular instant message may cause that message to be routed to a verification server that is adapted to verify whether a particular order is to be placed.

At system the received message is parsed to determine certain recognized elements and the received message is modified to incorporate structure. The modified message is sent to an instant messaging network where it is forwarded to according to one embodiment another instant message processing system which is configured to parse and display the structured message. Message processing system may be capable of recognizing certain structured information within the message and may display such information to user B e.g. such as within an interface as discussed above with reference to . However the application through which user views the instant message information may be a conventional instant message application that cannot recognize the included structured information. According to one embodiment the application interface that displays the received instant message may not be effected by the included structured information.

The following may be example methods of a messaging pipeline API that may be used to process messages e.g. by an instant message processor . They may specify for example how a particular instant message may be displayed e.g. in a message grid how the structured text may be encoded among other processing functions relating to an instant message format. For instance a message pipeline may include the following methods 

Thus in the example methods above methods may be defined that are capable of defining structure that modifies or interprets the unstructured text governs how the unstructured text is displayed in a display to the user or is otherwise processed by a receiving system.

The flow begins with a user creating particular filter criteria for the message grid which is displayed to the user . This criteria specified by user is passed to a message processing pipeline which may be executed in one or more instant messaging processors located within the distributed communication network. When a message is received from the instant messaging network the message processing pipeline at processes the message based on the filter criteria for the message grid . If in one example a received message does not match the particular filter criteria as specified by the message grid that message is not transferred to message grid and or user . However the if another message that does match the particular filter criteria specified by message grid information from that message may be displayed within message grid and subsequently that message may be displayed to user . In this way different filter criteria may be specified e.g. by the user such that the most important and or relevant messages are displayed within the message grid.

In the case of unstructured messages these messages may be processed and modified by an instant message processor to create structured messages. Instant message processor may be configured to receive and process instant messages originated by a number of different systems. Structured instant messages may be transmitted to any number of destinations including but not limited to conventional instant messaging application A such as the AOL IM application and a custom application program B such as a custom instant messaging application that is specially configured to recognize and be responsive to structured information. Further structured instant messages can be transmitted to any number of other types of destinations such as any other type of system C e.g. an order management system network D e.g. an IM network financial network LAN or other communication network database E e.g. data warehouse data driven application or other storage entity application F e.g. a pricing system risk analysis system etc. or other entity.

Structured messages may also be communicated directly between entities that are configured to format and recognize such structured instant messages. For instance specialized client may be capable of communicating structured instant messages directly to one or more destinations e.g. destinations A F and in such a case an intermediate message processor may not be required to communicate such messages.

Processor may also include a number of hardware elements such as input output devices storage devices memories and display devices. Further such conventional hardware may be configured with specially configured software for performing various functions as described above. The system may also be configured for communication with one or more IM networks. By way of example the processor may be configured with any IM software that permits communication with an IM network. The software may be written in any type of programming language to provide creation storing and processing of messages between public IM networks. According to another embodiment instant message processor may be configured to communicate with other types of networks such as a FIX network implementing the well known Financial Information eXchange FIX protocol. The FIX protocol is widely used in the financial community for automating securities trading.

Accordingly the instant message processor of may include a general purpose microprocessor CPU and a bus employed to connect and enable communication between general purpose processor e.g. a microprocessor microcontroller or other type of processor and components of the instant message processor in accordance with well known techniques.

Instant message processor may include a user interface adapter which connects general purpose processor via bus to one or more interface devices such as a keyboard mouse and or other interface device s which can be any user interface device such as a touch sensitive screen digitized entry pad or any other interface device type. Bus may also connect a display device such as an LCD screen or monitor to the processor via a display adapter . Bus may also connect processor to memory and long term storage collectively memory which can include a hard drive diskette drive tape drive or any other type of device system and or software that is capable of storing data.

Instant message processor may communicate with other computers or networks of computers for example via a network interface e.g. a communications channel network card modem or other communication interface . Instant message processor may be associated with such other computers in one or more networks e.g. including one or more local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs etc. .

Instant message processor may be specially configured software and or hardware in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Accordingly as shown in instant message processor may include various components including a parser for parsing IM communications received from one or more systems to determine whether such unstructured messages received include information that can be translated into structure and inserted into outgoing messages. In one embodiment parser may be adapted to parse a received IM communication to identify tokens within a received IM.

Received instant messages may be stored in one or more storage systems. In one embodiment received messages may be stored in a message queue where they can be retrieved and processed.

In one embodiment if it is determined that a received message should be modified by instant message processor a formatter may format an instant message from the queue . Instant message processor may also include a formatting database that defines how instant messages should be formatted. In one example implementation formatter may encode structure into outgoing instant messages.

Further it should be appreciated that one or more functions or components of the instant message processor may be incorporated in one or more end systems e.g. a client system . For instance a client computer may include components of the instant message processor that receive and format unstructured instant message information.

Optionally instant message processor includes software for connecting to the third party IM networks. Instant message processor may also connect an instant messaging network to a FIX network. For instance instant message processor may accomplish this function by listening for events from either network and taking appropriate actions when an event occurs. For example one type of event that would trigger a message to be generated on a FIX network could be the receipt of an IM communication.

Software programming code for carrying out the inventive method is typically stored in memory. Accordingly instant message processor may store in its memory microprocessor executable instructions including programs for carrying out the method described above. Additionally computer readable media may be used for storing computer readable code when executed carries out method acts identified above and below with respect to the recited claims. Computer readable media may also be adapted to execute on one or more computer systems to cooperatively carry out various acts described above. The computer readable medium may also be packaged as a computer program product e.g. a disc that is sold to a user for carrying out various acts consistent with principles of the present invention. Also it should be appreciated that the computer program product may be downloaded over a communication network such as the Internet.

As discussed above a client s system used for viewing creating and sending IM communications may include specially configured IM client software instead of conventional commercially available IM client software e.g. the AOL IM instant messaging software application . In addition to permitting a user to send IM communications such specially configured IM client software may provide the ability to connect to multiple different IM networks such as AOL MSN etc. and to display corresponding chat windows for each network within a single client window such that multiple IM communications sessions may be viewed concurrently within a single client software application such as shown in .

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

