---

title: Systems and methods for classifying applications configured for cloud-based platforms
abstract: A computer-implemented method for classifying applications configured for cloud-based platforms may include 1) identifying an online platform that hosts an online service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third-party applications integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform, 2) identifying at least one third-party application that is integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform, 3) identifying metadata describing at least one characteristic of the third-party application, and 4) generating a classification of the third-party application based at least in part on the characteristic. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918387&OS=08918387&RS=08918387
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08918387
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120404
---
Internet users increasingly rely on cloud based services for social networking shopping gaming and other activities. Some cloud based services have achieved user bases of hundreds of millions of users and have extended their platforms to attract more users and or keep existing users within the services online ecosystems. For example some cloud based services have provided interfaces for creating cloud based applications that third party vendors may use to provide applications via the cloud based services and or customize users experiences within these services.

In order to encourage vendor participation and development of new and useful third party applications a cloud based service may maintain relatively low standards for vendor registration and submissions. Unfortunately the large user bases available under these uniform platforms may attract undesirable vendors and third party applications potentially bringing scams phishing attempts spam attacks and or unwanted content to users. Traditional security systems for identifying and remediating illegitimate content may fail to correctly analyze third party applications delivered via cloud based services without understanding what the third party applications are about and or purport to accomplish. Furthermore even legitimate third party applications may overwhelm users when presented in large disorganized catalogs. Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for classifying applications configured for cloud based platforms.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for classifying applications configured for cloud based platforms by identifying the applications e.g. as separate from the cloud based platforms which host them and identifying metadata e.g. by requesting extracting crawling for and or mining for the metadata useful for classifying the applications. In one example a computer implemented method for classifying applications configured for cloud based platforms may include 1 identifying an online platform that hosts an online service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third party applications integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform 2 identifying at least one third party application that is integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform 3 identifying metadata describing at least one characteristic of the third party application and 4 generating a classification of the third party application based at least in part on the characteristic.

In some examples identifying the third party application may include 1 identifying user generated content within the online service that references the third party application and 2 identifying content generated by the third party application within the online service. Additionally or alternatively identifying the third party application may include 1 retrieving from the online service a list of third party applications available on the online platform and 2 identifying an email flagged by a spam filter that references the third party application.

In some embodiments identifying the metadata describing the characteristic of the third party application may include retrieving the metadata from an application programming interface of the online service. Additionally or alternatively identifying the metadata may include interacting with the third party application during an active session with the online service. In one embodiment identifying the metadata may include parsing a canvas page including at least a portion of the third party application to identify 1 textual content within the canvas page 2 links within the canvas page 3 the structure of the canvas page and or 4 one or more elements within the canvas page. Additionally or alternatively identifying the metadata may include 1 identifying a profile space for the third party application within the online service and 2 identifying at least one user submitted comment to a commenting feed on the profile space.

In one example identifying the metadata may include identifying one or more permissions used by the third party application within the online platform. In this example generating the classification of the third party application may include identifying a classification of applications with a legitimate use for the permission. In some examples generating the classification of the third party application may include 1 determining based on the metadata that a vendor of the third party application is also the vendor of an additional third party application 2 identifying an attribute of the additional third party application and 3 generating the classification at least in part based on the attribute of the additional third party application.

In some examples the computer implemented method may also include providing the classification to 1 a security system for evaluating third party applications integrated with the online service 2 a content control system for third party applications integrated with the online service 3 a search index for the online service and or 4 a user of the online service.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 an identification module programmed to identify an online platform that hosts an online service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third party applications integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform 2 an application module programmed to identify at least one third party application that is integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform 3 a metadata module programmed to identify metadata describing at least one characteristic of the third party application and 4 a classification module programmed to generate a classification of the third party application based at least in part on the characteristic. The system may also include at least one processor configured to execute the identification module the application module the metadata module and the classification module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 identify an online platform that hosts an online service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third party applications integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform 2 identify at least one third party application that is integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform 3 identify metadata describing at least one characteristic of the third party application and 4 generate a classification of the third party application based at least in part on the characteristic.

As will be explained in greater detail below by identifying the applications e.g. as separate from the cloud based platforms which host them and identifying metadata e.g. by requesting extracting crawling for and or mining for the metadata useful for classifying the applications the systems and methods described herein may facilitate and or enable the limiting of access to illegitimate malicious and or undesired third party applications within otherwise trusted cloud based platforms. Additionally or alternatively these systems and methods may facilitate controlling access to filtering and or organizing third party applications within cloud based platforms. For example the classifications generated by these systems and methods may facilitate security analyses of third party applications content control filtering of third party applications cataloging of third party applications and or searching for third party applications. Furthermore the systems and methods described herein may classify applications that may otherwise go unclassified by distinguishing third party applications from the cloud based services with which they are integrated and leveraging actions and data specific to cloud based services to classify the third party applications.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for classifying applications configured for cloud based platforms. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . Detailed descriptions of exemplary classifications of applications configured for cloud based platforms will be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In addition and as will be described in greater detail below exemplary system may include a classification module programmed to generate a classification of the third party application based at least in part on the characteristic. Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device and or platform computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in communication with a platform via a network e.g. to access a service .

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of computing device facilitate computing device in classifying applications configured for cloud based platforms. For example and as will be described in greater detail below identification module application module metadata module and or classification module may cause computing device to 1 identify an online platform that hosts an online service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third party applications e.g. applications and integrated with service and configured to operate on platform 2 identify at least one third party application e.g. application that is integrated with service and configured to operate on platform 3 identify metadata describing at least one characteristic e.g. a characteristic of application and 4 generate a classification of application based at least in part on characteristic .

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Platform generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of hosting delivering and or referencing applications and or services online. Examples of platform include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. In one example service may as a part of platform provide references to servers and for loading applications and e.g. by serving a web document including an IFRAME that loads application from server and or application from server . Additionally or alternatively platform may include and or store applications and directly.

Servers and generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of hosting and or delivering applications and or services online. Examples of servers and include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN the Internet power line communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a GSM Network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between computing device and platform .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify an online platform that hosts an online service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third party applications integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify platform that hosts service and that is capable of hosting a plurality of third party applications e.g. applications and integrated with service and configured to operate on platform .

As used herein the phrase online platform may refer to any computing device and or devices software framework and or combination thereof usable for providing and or hosting a service e.g. via the Internet . As used herein the phrase online service may refer to any of a variety of services and or Internet sites. Examples of online services may include social networking services online shopping services e.g. EBAY online gaming services etc. As used herein the phrase social networking service may refer to any service and or Internet site that manages social connections and or shares compiles formats and or broadcasts information based on social connections. Examples of social networking platforms may include FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE LINKEDIN and FLICKR. In some examples the online service may host data and or process the data via cloud based applications e.g. web based email clients online calendar applications online picture albums etc. for personal and or private use.

As used herein the phrase third party application may refer to any application that may be integrated with but which is separable from the online service. For example the phrase third party application may refer to an application that provides access to an additional service via the online service. Additionally or alternatively the phrase third party application may refer to an application that customizes an interaction with the online service. In some examples the phrase third party application may refer to an application that a user may enable and or disable within the online service. Additionally or alternatively the phrase third party application may refer to an application developed independently from the online service e.g. by a separate vendor instead of the vendor of the online service . In at least one example the phrase third party application may refer to an add on application available for the online service. In some examples the phrase third party application may refer to an application specifically designed for and or only operable via the online service. One example of a third party application may include a flight booking application allowing a user to book a flight via a social networking service e.g. by drawing on data previously provided by the user via the social networking service . Another example of a third party application may include a design application allowing a user to customize a seller page presented via an e commerce service.

Identification module may identify the online platform in any suitable manner. For example identification module may identify the online platform by identifying a network address of the online platform. Additionally or alternatively identification module may identify the online platform by identifying a name and or unique identifier of the online platform. In some examples identification module may identify the online platform by identifying the online service and or one or more third party applications configured to operate on the online platform.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify at least one third party application that is integrated with the online service and configured to operate on the online platform. For example at step application module may as part of computing device in identify at least one third party application e.g. application that is integrated with service and configured to operate on platform .

Application module may identify the third party application in any of a variety of ways. For example application module may identify user generated content within the online service that references the third party application. As used herein the phrase user generated content may refer to any post comment and or submission to and or within the online service. For example the user generated content may include a post that names the third party application that links to the third party application and or that responds to a post that names and or links to the third party application. As another example application module may identify the third party application by identifying content generated by the third party application within the online service. For example application module may identify a post comment and or message generated by the third party application e.g. a post to a feed corresponding to a user account established for gathering information for the systems and methods described herein . Application module may identify content generated by the third party application with user prompting e.g. a message transmitted by the third party application with user input content generated by the third party application in response to user interaction e.g. a post created in response to an event generated by the user interacting with the third party application and or content otherwise generated e.g. according to a schedule in response to an environmental factor within the online service etc. by the third party application.

In some examples application module may identify the third party application by retrieving from the online service a list of third party applications available on the online platform. For example application module may retrieve a list of third party applications available on the online platform via an application programming interface of the online service. Additionally or alternatively application module may retrieve a list of third party applications available on the online platform via an application of the online service e.g. an application catalog application and or an application store application of the online service . In an additional example application module may identify the third party application by identifying an email flagged by a spam filter that references the third party application. For example a spam filtering system may be configured to report spam contents to a security vendor. In this example application module and or a separate application identification system may parse the spam to identify a reference to the third party application. Application module may then identify the reference to the third party application. As another example application module may scan the online service and or one or more additional online services for references to the application. For example application module may scan a wall and or feed of one or more profiles within the online service for a reference to the third party application and or scan messages sent within the online service for a reference to the third party application.

Application module may also crawl and or scan the Internet to identify third party applications for the online service. For example application module may scan Internet posts Internet advertisements and or perform searches via search engines e.g. searches that specify the online service by name and application game add on and or other terms as appropriate .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify metadata describing at least one characteristic of the third party application. For example at step metadata module may as part of computing device in identify metadata describing characteristic of application .

Metadata module may identify the metadata in any of a variety of ways. For example metadata module may identify the metadata by retrieving the metadata from an application programming interface of the online service e.g. the FACEBOOK GRAPH API . Additionally or alternatively metadata module may identify the metadata by interacting with the third party application during an active session with the online service. For example metadata module may access a user account with the online service usable for retrieving information about third party applications with the online service. In this example metadata module may interact with access and or execute the third party application and monitor the user account the online service and or the local client system for the behavior of the online service.

In some examples metadata module may identify the metadata by parsing a canvas page representing at least a portion of the third party application to identify textual content within the canvas page links within the canvas page a structure of the canvas page and or one or more elements within the canvas page. As used herein the phrase canvas page may refer to any Internet document relayed by the online service to portray interface with execute and or facilitate the third party application. Accordingly metadata module may identify the textual content within the canvas page to identify one or more topics and or key words within the textual content that may characterize the third party application. Likewise metadata module may identify one or more links within the canvas page to identify one or more additional Internet resources e.g. and in turn identify a classification of the additional Internet resources and impute the classification of the additional Internet resources to the third party application . The structure of the canvas page may include any information about types of content within the canvas page the layout of the content within the canvas page and or the predominance of one or more content types and or elements within the canvas page. For example metadata module may identify a predominant interactive multimedia element within the canvas page e.g. potentially indicative of a gaming application .

Metadata module may identify any of a variety of types of metadata relating to the third party application. For example metadata module may identify one or more permissions used by the third party application within the online platform. As used herein the term permission may refer to any permission privilege designated access right and or authentication for accessing using manipulating and or viewing data within the online service and or using a capability of the online service. In some examples the permission may be granted by a user at the time of enabling the third party application for a user account. For example the online service may be configured to display one or more permissions required and or used by the third party application and to receive verification that the user will grant the permissions to the third party application before activating the third party application. In some examples the online service may divide a set of capabilities of the online platform into a set of permissions to access the capabilities and grant a subset of permissions to each activated third party application. Examples of permissions may include a permission to access user submitted profile data user activity data and or user social networking connections permission to create posts and or send messages to a user and or the social networking connections of a user and or permissions to share designated data with other users of the online service other third party applications within the online service and or external services.

In some examples metadata module may identify the metadata by identifying a profile space for the third party application within the online service and then identifying at least one user submitted comment to the commenting feed on the profile space. As used herein the phrase profile space may refer to any Internet resource and or node provided by the online service to describe and or aggregate information about an entity e.g. a third party application . As used herein the phrase commenting feed may refer to any wall and or aggregation of comments relating to a subject e.g. a third party application .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may generate a classification of the third party application based at least in part on the characteristic. For example at step classification module may as part of computing device in generate a classification of application based at least in part on characteristic .

Classification module may generate the classification in any of a variety of ways. For example classification module may determine based on the metadata that a vendor of the third party application is also the vendor of an additional third party application. As used herein the term vendor may refer to any distinct entity designated as a creator publisher and or distributor of an application. In some examples the vendor of a third party application may neither own nor control nor be owned or controlled by an entity that owns and or controls the online service. Upon determining that the vendor of the third party application is also the vendor of an additional third party application classification module may identify an attribute of the additional third party application e.g. a classification and or category of the additional third party application and generate the classification at least in part based on the attribute of the additional third party application. For example classification module may impute a classification and or category of the additional third party application to the third party application based on the shared vendor. In some examples classification module may determine that the vendor of the third party application is also the vendor of an application for a different platform e.g. not the online platform . In these examples classification module may similarly impute an attribute classification and or category of the application for the different platform to the third party application.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein may identify one or more permissions used by the third party application within the online platform. In these examples classification module may generate the classification by identifying a classification of applications with a legitimate use for the permission. For example classification module may identify one or more classifications of applications that have been granted the permission. Additionally or alternatively classification module may identify a table linking permissions and or groups of permissions to likely categories of applications. For example classification module may determine that a permission allowing the third party application access to a user s relationship status may indicate that the third party application is a dating application.

Classification module may generate the classification in any of a variety of ways. For example classification module may identify multiple characteristics of the third party application and identify a probable classification based on each characteristic. Classification module may then identify a most frequent classification of the characteristics of the third party application as the classification of the third party application. As another example classification module may identify probabilities that the third party application belongs to various classifications based on each characteristic of the third party application. Classification module may then aggregate the probabilities to determine the most probable classification e.g. using a suitable statistical method of inference such as a Bayesian inference .

Using as an example classification module may determine based on metadata that since the vendor of the third party application Trebuchet Deluxe is classified as creating games an extracted topic of a description of the third party application is Games an extracted topic of comments about the third party application is Games and the structure of a canvas page of the third party application is a predominant interactive multimedia element e.g. ADOBE FLASH that the third party application is most likely a game. Accordingly generation module may generate a classification of Trebuchet Deluxe as Games. Likewise classification module may determine based on metadata that based on the Photography topics found in the description and comments of the third party application Digital Album Maker and due to a permission used by the third party application to access a user s photo albums that the third party application is most likely a photography application. Accordingly generation module may generate a classification of Digital Album Maker as Photography. 

In some examples classification module may further provide the classification for use by one or more additional systems. For example classification module may provide the classification to a security system for evaluating third party applications integrated with the online service. In this example the security system may use the classification to determine whether the behavior of a third party application within the online service is consistent with the expected behavior of a third party application with the classification. As another example classification module may provide the classification to a content control system for third party applications integrated with the online service. As used herein the phrase content control system may refer to any system to controlling access to filtering and or warning about content. For example the content control system may include a parental control system. Accordingly the content control system may use the classification to determine whether a third party application is appropriate for a child user whether a child user has spent too much time using a third party application etc. Additionally or alternatively the content control system may determine whether the third party application deals with illicit subjects violates the terms of service of the online service and or an Internet service provider etc. In additional examples classification module may provide the classification to a search index for the online service e.g. to facilitate a user in finding applications of certain categories and or to a user of the online service e.g. to give a user more information about the use and or purpose of the third party application .

As explained above by identifying the applications e.g. as separate from the cloud based platforms which host them and identifying metadata e.g. by requesting extracting crawling for and or mining for the metadata useful for classifying the applications the systems and methods described herein may facilitate and or enable the limiting of access to illegitimate malicious and or undesired third party applications within otherwise trusted cloud based platforms. For example the classifications generated by these systems and methods may facilitate security analyses of third party applications content control filtering of third party applications and or organization of third party applications.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an ISA PCI PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation SCSI host adapters USB host adapters IEEE 1394 host adapters SATA and eSATA host adapters ATA and PATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. CD or DVD ROMs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent network attached storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as NFS SMB or CIFS.

Servers and may also be connected to a storage area network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for classifying applications configured for cloud based platforms.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a computing device into a device for classifying third party applications configured for cloud based platforms.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

