---

title: Methods, systems and apparatuses for application service layer (ASL) inter-networking
abstract: Systems and/or methods for providing internetworking among application services layers (ASLs) of different network technologies may be provided. For example, a tunnel anchor point (TAP) may be established. The TAP may be configured to enable communication between a local application in the network and a remote application in a different network. At the TAP, an ASL tunnel may be created to the local application in the network to facilitate the communication. Additionally, a message from the local application may be received where at least a portion of the message may be configured to be provided to a remote ASL and the remote application in the different network to which the local application wishes to communicate. At least the portion of the message may be provided to the remote ASL and the remote application in the different network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232342&OS=09232342&RS=09232342
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 09232342
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121024
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 550 918 filed Oct. 24 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 641 059 filed May 1 2012 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Today many network technologies use Application Service Layers ASLs to simplify or facilitate communications between applications devices and the like. Such ASLs may include a collection of functions that may be implemented in a reusable and or modular manner as a support layer for applications and or devices. For such ASLs to be successfully adopted and mass deployed efficient methods of inter networking ASLs of different networking technologies with one another may need to be provided or used. Such inter networking may be important to support end to end communication between applications communicating with one another across inter connected networks having different ASLs. For these types of use cases challenges can arise since attributes of one ASL e.g. interfaces types of services and the like may differ from those defined by another ASL. For example the ZigBee Smart Energy 2.0 resource structure may differ greatly from the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI machine to machine M2M resource structure. To complicate matters further in many situations networks may already be deployed and updating the ASLs in these networks to add support for interfacing to the ASLs of other network technologies may not be feasible due to technical business and or accessibility limitations.

Systems and or methods disclosed herein may define a minimally intrusive and highly transparent mechanism for interfacing the application service layers ASLs of multiple different networking technologies with one another. The methods systems and apparatuses disclosed herein may further define an intelligent tunneling mechanism used to interface different ASLs with one another and in turn allow applications to communicate with one another in an end to end fashion across inter connected networks having different ASLs. In one embodiment this intelligent ASL tunneling mechanism may support encapsulating the ASL messages of one networking technology within the ASL messages of another networking technology to allow the messages to flow in an end to end fashion across the inter connected ASLs. In doing so applications may not only communicate with one another in an end to end fashion but also make use of the application layer services supported by the ASLs of remote networks along with the services supported by their own local network s ASL. In one or more embodiments a method may include establishing at a gateway a tunnel anchor point TAP for performing tunneling operations to facilitate internetworking among ASLs of different network technologies. Additionally in an embodiment the TAP may be configured to mirror content.

For example in an embodiment systems and or methods for providing internetworking among application services layers ASLs of different network technologies may be provided. For example a tunnel anchor point TAP may be established e.g. within an application services layer ASL associated with a network . The TAP may be configured to enable communication between a local application in the network and a remote application in a different network. At the TAP an ASL tunnel may be created to the local application in the network to facilitate the communication. Additionally e.g. at the TAP via the ASL tunnel a message from the local application may be received where at least a portion of the message may be configured to be provided to a remote ASL and the remote application in the different network to which the local application wishes to communicate. Via the TAP at least a portion of the message may be provided to the remote ASL and the remote application in the different network to facilitate the communication between the local application in the network and the remote application in the different network.

The Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter not is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to any limitations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

A detailed description of illustrative embodiments may now be described with reference to the various Figures. Although this description provides a detailed example of possible implementations it should be noted that the details are intended to be exemplary and in no way limit the scope of the application.

Embodiments disclosed herein may provide and or define a generic minimally intrusive and or transparent e.g. highly transparent systems and or methods for interfacing application service layers ASLs of different networking technologies with one another e.g. without using an overly complex gateway or proxy functionality that may be costly and difficult to manage . According to an example embodiment such systems and or methods may provide an Application Service Layer Intelligent Tunneling Mechanism that may enable interfacing various ASLs as described herein. Additionally in an embodiment an ETSI M2M Application Service Layer may be inter networked with a ZigBee IP SE 2.0 Application Service Layer.

For example such systems and or methods may provide support for efficient interworking of application service layers of different networking technologies that may be RESTful in nature. Using these systems and or methods e.g. mechanisms efficient end to end RESTful communication between endpoint applications residing in different application service layer domains may be realized without the use of complex gateway logic having to perform application layer protocol translations and message manipulation as described herein.

Additionally such systems and or methods described herein may provide intelligent tunneling e.g. re targeting for such RESTful interworking of application service layers ASLs of different networking technologies. In an embodiment such a tunneling may be implemented as interworking services within an application service layer. Additionally the intelligent application service layer tunnels may be responsible for re targeting and delivery of messages from one application service layer to another and ultimately from one application to another. This may be performed or done in a RESTful manner. In addition to re targeting and delivery these intelligent communication tunnels may also support one or more of the following e.g. as described herein and in more detail below filtering messages based on type origin or destination of the message e.g. where origin or destination can be terms of resource application or device network based buffering caching and aggregation of messages mirroring of content from an application into the ASL and making it available to other ASLs and applications discovery of applications and services supported by an ASL and the like.

According to an embodiment such systems and or methods may support the interworking of ETSI M2M services to other RESTful local personal area networking technologies e.g. ZigBee SE 2.0 6LoWPAN CoAP and the like and or may defines how these interworking systems and or methods e.g. mechanisms may be integrated into the ETSI M2M defined service layer.

An Application Service Layer ASL may provide a support layer for applications in which a collection of functions may be implemented in a re usable and modular fashion. For example ASLs may support Application Programming Interfaces APIs that may provide applications access to a collection or library of application layer functions as well as access to functions and or services that may reside in lower protocol layers.

Examples of the types of functionality supported by an ASL may include services such as for example application bootstrapping registration discovery management and general transmission and reception of application messages. These ASL services may be made available to applications via APIs that may make use of defined message formats resource structures resource representations and the like. depicts a block diagram illustrating an example embodiment of a typical networking protocol stack with an ASL that may be provided and or used. As shown in an ASL may reside in between an application layer and an application protocol layer of a networking protocol stack . Additional layers such as a transport protocol layer a network protocol layer a MAC protocol layer a PHY protocol layer and the like may also be included in the networking protocol stack as shown in .

Additionally a growing trend in communication network technologies may be the use of the Application Service Layer ASL and the standardization thereof. By using e.g. and standardizing the ASL for a particular networking technology many of the same benefits that may have been realized by standardizing lower level protocol layers e.g. layers below the ASL e.g. such as the application protocol layer e.g. the transport protocol layer e.g. the network protocol layer e.g. the MAC protocol layer e.g. the PHY protocol layer e.g. and the like may also be realized for the ASL.

According to an example embodiment via an ASL e.g. a standardized ASL applications that may be compliant with the same ASL may have a higher probability of interoperating with one another in a more reliable manner. depicts a block diagram illustrating an example embodiment of two applications communicating with one another via a common ASL e.g. in a common or similar networking technology . As shown in in a network an application on a first device may communicate e.g. at with another application on a second device via a common ASL.

In an embodiment an extension of using or standardizing ASLs for one particular networking technology may be or may include defining systems and or methods to enable inter networking ASLs of different networking technologies to interface or work with one another as described herein. By inter networking the ASLs of different networking technologies with one another as described herein the services of each ASL may be made available to applications to facilitate end to end communication between the applications residing in different networks that may use different ASLs.

Additionally in an embodiment one or more of the ASLs may be or may be made RESTful e.g. due to the explosion of Internet based applications and cloud based computing . REST Representational State Transfer may include a software architecture style e.g. for distributed systems such as the world wide web WWW or Internet that may rely on a client server based model. For example clients may make requests to resources that may be hosted on servers. A resource may be addressed via a Uniform Resource Identifier URI . Clients may use a simple and uniform set of commands to make requests to resources. These commands may be e.g. may often be referred to as CRUD operations Create POST Retrieve GET Update PUT and Delete . In an embodiment the RESTful ASLs may include one of the many web based ASLs being deployed on the modern web or Internet that may be layered on top of a protocol such as a RESTful hypertext transfer protocol HTTP protocol.

According to an embodiment the RESTful ASLs may include the Zigbee IP Smart Energy 2.0 ASL the ETSI M2M ASL and the like as described herein. Additionally the RESTful ASLs such as the Zigbee IP Smart Energy 2.0 ASL the ETSI M2M ASL and the like e.g. described herein may be similar e.g. may have one or more things in common may be similar e.g. may have one or more things in common . For example each of the RESTful ASLs may define a hierarchical resource tree structure which may form the interface to the ASL as shown in . According to an embodiment although RESTful ASLs may reduce the complexity of interfacing ASLs of different networking technologies the RESTful ASLs e.g. in general may not provide seamless end to end interconnection and or communication across different ASLs e.g. in different networks or network technologies . As such systems and or methods such as those described herein may be provide and or used to accommodate such different ASLs.

As described above an ASL that may be provided and or used may be the Zigbee IP Smart Energy 2.0 ASL. For example the ZigBee Smart Energy 2.0 may unify the mix of communication technologies present in a local area network LAN of energy monitoring and control type devices with a common internet protocol IP stack and may include a RESTful ASL. The ZigBee Smart Energy 2.0 ASL may be implemented and or targeted for implementation on ZigBee HomePlug Wi Fi Ethernet and other IP capable platforms according to an example. The ASL may define or provide methods mechanisms and or techniques for exchanging application messages including error messages and or security features that may be used to protect the application messages. The ASL may also define and or provide a standard RESTful resource structure e.g. as shown in as well as the format of each resource representation in such a structure.

As described above an ASL that may be provided and or used may be an ASL associated with an ETSI M2M. For example the ETSI M2M may define a service layer specifically targeted to provide services to M2M applications. These applications may be typically hosted on M2M devices residing in M2M local personal area networks e.g. ZigBee 6LoWPAN Bluetooth and the like and may interface to peer applications connected to M2M servers in the backend network. Additionally the ETSI M2M may define or provide a RESTful ASL that may be tailored for enabling communication between applications that may either be hosted or interfaced to M2M devices gateways servers and the like. The ASL may facilitate communication between applications both locally e.g. a device application communicating with a gateway application over a LAN or PAN as well as remotely e.g. a device application communicating with a network application over WAN . Additionally the ETSI M2M service layer architecture e.g. ASL may be a resource oriented RESTful architecture that may leverage the concepts and features of web based services. According to one embodiment the ASL in ETSI M2M may be a Service Capability Layer SCL .

In an embodiment a method for inter networking ASLs of different networks e.g. a Zigbee or ETSI ASL may be to mirror e.g. copy applications and or resources from one network into the ASL of the other network for example shown in . In such a method mirroring may be performed by an inter networking proxy function e.g. that may have intelligence and awareness of the different networking technologies e.g. a first network or network and a second network or network and ASLs e.g. ASL or ASL and ASL or ASL that may be included in a gateway e.g. and or the devices e.g. and or that may be inter networked. According to an embodiment such a mirroring method or technique however may be overly complex since the inter networking proxy may perform one or more of the following types of complex operations may discover each device as it joins a network such as the first network e.g. or network and then may discover each application e.g. and or as well as each resource hosted on each device e.g. a first device or device and or a second device or device may create mirror resources for each device application and or resource residing in a network such as the first network or network within the ASL resource structure e.g. that maybe included in the ASL of the other network such as the second ASL or ASL in the device or the gateway thereof of another network such as the second network or network may interface with the ASLs e.g. the first ASL or ASL and the second ASL or ASL of networks for example both the first network or network and the second network requests and or responses back and forth between the mirrored resources in a ASL e.g. the second ASL or ASL and the corresponding entities in a network such as the first network or network and vice versa iv may update mirror resources in an ASL such as the second ASL or ASL when triggered to do so from devices e.g. the first device or device and or applications e.g. application or application that may reside in a network such as the first network or network v may forward updates to an ASL such as the second ASL or ASL to mirror resources to devices e.g. the first device or device and or applications e.g. the application or application that may reside in a network such as the first network or network and or vi may detect when devices e.g. the first device or device may leave a network such as the first network or network or when applications on devices e.g. the first device or device in a network such as network may be terminated and may delete corresponding resources in an ASL such as the second ASL or ASL accordingly. As a result of such complexity the mirroring technique mechanism and or method may have one or more problems.

In an embodiment the mirroring mechanism or method may lack scalability. For example for each new device that may join a network such as network e.g. the inter networking proxy e.g. may discover it and its applications and resources and may then mirror them by creating corresponding resources in an ASL such as the second ASL or ASL . Subsequently communication between the ASL such as the second ASL or ASL and the network such as the first network or network and its devices e.g. the first device or device and or applications e.g. the application or application may flow through the inter working proxy e.g. . Second the mirroring mechanism may be highly complex. For example the inter networking proxy e.g. may become overly complex since it may be responsible for discovery and detection of devices e.g. the first device or device joining and leaving a network such as the first network or network . The inter networking proxy e.g. may also be responsible for creation updating and or servicing of mirrored resources in an ASL such as the second ASL or ASL . Additionally the inter networking proxy e.g. may have decreased reliability. For example the inter networking proxy e.g. may become a point e.g. a single of failure since communication between an ASL such as the second ASL or ASL and a network such as the first network or the network and its devices e.g. the first device or device and or applications e.g. the application or application may flow through the inter networking proxy e.g. . Furthermore the inter networking proxy e.g. may lack end to end communications. For example since communications may be proxied by the inter networking function e.g. end to end communication between applications e.g. the application or application and the second application or application residing in a network such as the first network or network and another network such as the second network or network may not be possible.

One or more embodiments disclosed herein may define a generic minimally intrusive and or transparent e.g. highly transparent technique mechanism or method for interfacing one or more ASLs of multiple e.g. two different networking technologies e.g. different networks with one another. Also one or more embodiments disclosed herein may define an intelligent tunneling technique mechanism or method that may be used to interface different ASLs with one another and in turn may allow or enable applications to communicate with one another in an end to end fashion across inter connected networks that may have different ASLs.

Such an intelligent ASL tunneling mechanism or method that may be provided herein may support encapsulating one or more ASL messages of a networking technology or network within one or more ASL messages of another networking technology or network to allow or enable the messages to flow in an end to end fashion across the inter connected ASLs. In such an embodiment e.g. by doing so applications may communicate with one another in an end to end fashion or manner and may also make use of application layer services that may be supported by the ASLs of remote networks along with the services supported by their own local network s ASL. The ASL tunneling technique mechanism or method disclosed herein may mirror content e.g. if desired in an embodiment. Such a mirroring may be performed e.g. in an opportunistic manner by the ASL tunneling technique mechanism or method as it may tunnel requests and or responses such that the burden of mirroring may be offloaded from inter networking proxies and or local and remote applications.

Embodiments e.g. the systems techniques mechanisms or methods for providing an ASL tunnel or ASL tunneling mechanism or component for enabling inter networking of ASLs in different network technologies disclosed herein may be simpler when compared to conventional mechanisms. For example once an ASL tunnel or ASL tunnel mechanism or component may be setup messaging between applications may flow in an end to end fashion without complex mirroring or proxying of messages between the applications hosted in different networks. Additionally no inter networking proxying of messages may be used e.g. may be required .

The embodiments e.g. the systems techniques mechanisms or methods for providing an ASL tunnel or ASL tunneling mechanism or component for enabling inter networking of ASLs in different network technologies disclosed herein may also be scalable. For example compared to the mirroring technique mechanism or method described above the ASL tunnel or ASL tunneling mechanism or component may be scalable since as few as a single resource may be used for inter networking an application and its resources from a networking technology or network to another networking technology or network. According to an embodiment using the mirroring technique mechanism or method separate resources may be used for each application resource.

Additionally embodiments e.g. the systems techniques mechanisms or methods for providing an ASL tunnel or ASL tunneling mechanism or component for enabling inter networking of ASLs in different network technologies disclosed herein may be reliable. For example a complex proxy may not be used to inter network ASLs with one another and as such a point e.g. a single point of failure may be avoided.

Moreover embodiments e. e.g. the systems techniques mechanisms or methods for providing an ASL tunnel or ASL tunneling mechanism or component for enabling inter networking of ASLs in different network technologies disclosed herein may provide for end to end communication between applications residing in different networks. For example the applications may also be able to access services that may be supported by ASLs in other networks e.g. an application may use discovery services of remote ASLs to find resources in other networks .

In additional embodiments the intelligent ASL tunnel or ASL tunneling mechanism or component may be used to inter network an ETSI M2M ASL with ASLs of other networks such as a ZigBee IP Smart Energy 2.0 ASL and the like e.g. as disclosed herein .

As described above systems methods techniques or mechanisms described herein may provide or define an intelligent Application Service Layer ASL tunnel or tunneling mechanism or component that may be used to inter network the ASLs of different networking technologies with one another e.g. efficiently . By inter networking ASLs with one another using such an ASL tunneling mechanism or component applications that may be hosted within different networks may effectively communicate with one another in an end to end fashion or manner even if the applications may not be using the same ASL. In addition applications may access services supported by the ASLs of other networks.

According to an example embodiment the intelligent ASL tunneling mechanism or component may include an ASL Tunnel Management Function TMF and or an ASL Tunnel Anchor Point TAP . According to an example embodiment the TMF may be establish or setup up and or may tear down the ASL tunnels or ASL tunneling mechanisms or components by creating and deleting TAPs. For example the function of each TAP may be to perform actual tunneling operations or methods between a local application residing in the same network as the TAP and a remote application residing in an inter connected network e.g. that may be a different network . In an embodiment the TAPs may be setup within the ASL of a network whose local applications may initiate communication with remote applications hosted in the inter connected network. Once a TAP may be setup in an ASL the local applications within that network may use the TAP to tunnel messages to the corresponding remote application in the inter connected network.

Additionally depict flow charts illustrating an example embodiment of a flow or method for providing communication as shown using an intelligent ASL tunneling mechanism or component. As shown in e.g. and at a TMF e.g. may establish a TAP e.g. within an ASL e.g. a second ASL or ASL for the second network or network of a gateway e.g. . The TAP e.g. may create at an ASL tunnel e.g. via to a local application e.g. application or application residing in the second network or network e.g. the ASL tunnel may also be established with the application or application in the first network or network to facilitate communication between the applications and for example . At once the TAP e.g. may be setup the local application e.g. the application or application in the second network or network may initiate communication with a remote application e.g. an application or application in the first network or network using the TAP e.g. and for example via the ASL tunnel . According to an example embodiment the local application e.g. the application or application in the second network or network may do this e.g. initiate communication at by creating a message e.g. for the remote application e.g. the application or application in the first network or network using a native format that may be understood by this remote application and the remote ASL e.g. . As such the local application may include support for creating messages in this native format of the remote ASL. At the local application may then encapsulate the message within another message e.g. that may be compliant with its own local ASL message format. Such a message e.g. encapsulated within may then be sent by the application to the targeted TAP that may be associated with the targeted remote application e.g. application or application it may wish to communicate with at . After receiving such a message at the TAP e.g. may de encapsulate the remote ASL message from the local ASL message and may forward or provide the remote ASL message e.g. to the remote ASL to process. At the remote ASL in turn may forward it to the targeted remote application e.g. the application or application in network which may process the message.

In an embodiment if an application residing in network may want to initiate communication with an application in network e.g. in a different use case a similar approach or method may be used. For example a TMF may setup a TAP in the ASL of the first network or network for the application e.g. the application or application in the second network or network . This may enable or allow a local application e.g. the application or application in the first network or network to use ASL tunneling to initiate communication with the remote application in network . Although this may not be shown in FIGS. and A B such an embodiment may be provided for example using the components described therein.

According to an example embodiment a TMF e.g. shown in as well as a TAP e.g. shown in may also support a set of intelligent tunneling features. In such an embodiment the features may be configured and managed by the TMF as well as other entities in the hosting ASL. The features may also be made accessible to the local applications having access to the hosting ASL. Through such features added intelligence for the tunnel may be realized. For example local applications may discover the type of services protocols a remote application supports by querying corresponding attributes in the TAP that may track this information. Further description of these intelligent TMF and TAP features and attributes may be provided herein.

The ASL Tunnel Management Function TMF e.g. such as may include one or more features and or capabilities as described herein. For example the TMF may perform discovery to discover the ASLs of each respective network technology that may be inter connected with each other. In an example embodiment the TMF may discover the ASLs using native discovery mechanisms that may be supported by each networking technology. Alternatively the TMF may be pre provisioned with ASL information e.g. APIs interfaces and the like and discovery of the ASL s may not be performed or needed.

Additionally the TMF may discover remote devices applications and resources. The TMF may use native discovery services supported by the remote ASL to perform this discovery. The TMF may be pre provisioned with information for such devices applications and or resources e.g. network addresses and the like and as such discovery devices applications and resources may not be needed.

The TMF may support creating TAPs in a local ASL. For example in an embodiment by default the TMF may unconditionally create a TAP for each discovered remote application. Additionally the TMF may create TAPs based on certain criteria. For example the TMF may support a set of configurable attribute s to qualify creation of a TAP. Example of such attributes include creating a TAP if the remote device application and or resource may be of a specified type creating a TAP if the remote device application and or resource may match a specified identifier address creating a TAP if the remote device application and or resource may be hosted in a network of a specified type creating a TAP if the remote device application and or resource may be hosted in a network matching a specified identifier address and the like.

According to an embodiment the TMF may further support configuring and or managing attributes within a TAP. For example the TMF may support for example configuration of access control list e.g. Access Control enabling and or disabling buffering of requests enabling and or disabling caching of responses enabling and or disabling concatenation of requests configuration of TAP filters enabling and or disabling mirroring content that may be included in requests and or responses and the like. The TMF may also support deleting of TAPs when they are no longer needed e.g. when devices leave the network or when applications or resources are terminated .

Table 1 illustrates a list of example TMF attributes that may be provided and or used as described herein e.g. for performing functionalities associated with the TMF .

In example embodiments e.g. depending on the deployment scenario the TMF e.g. described herein may be implemented as a centralized entity e.g. hosted on a centralized gateway as shown for example in or as de centralized entity e.g. hosted on an individual device as shown for example in .

The ASL Tunnel Anchor Point TAP e.g. such as may include one or more features and or capabilities as described herein. For example the TAP may include support for one or more forwarding addresses. The forwarding addresses may be configured for example by the TMF when establishing the TAP. The forwarding address s may be used by the TAP when forwarding requests that may be received from local applications that may target a remote application or resource and or function of a remote resource.

The TAP may also include support for processing a tunneled request that may be received from a local application de encapsulating the request and forwarding it to a remote application s forwarding address configured in the TAP. The TAP may further include maintaining state for remote application requests that may use or need responses. According to an embodiment when a response may be received from a remote application the response to the local application by tunneling it in a local ASL response message may be returned back to the local application that may have made the original request.

Additionally the TAP may include support additional intelligent tunneling features. These intelligent features may be managed e.g. enabled disabled configured and the like via attributes that may be supported by the TAP. Depending on the attribute it may be controlled or queried by entities such as the TMF the local ASL or local applications. Some intelligent tunneling features and or corresponding attributes may include one or more of the following access control buffering of requests caching of responses mirroring of content concatenation of requests filtering of requests service discovery supported protocol s supported content type s and the like.

According to an example embodiment with respect to access control the TAP may further enforce which local applications may use the TAP to communicate with the corresponding remote application. The access may be enforced using schemes such as checking a local application identifier against a list of approved applications. This access control list may be maintained as an attribute within the TAP.

Additionally in an embodiment the TAP may buffer requests from local applications targeting remote applications until the remote application may be ready to receive the requests. The buffering may be controlled by a TAP attribute. For example the attribute may be enabled to buffer when a remote application may not be available e.g. remote device that may be hosting application may be sleeping may be disabled to stop buffering and or may be used to forward buffered messages to the remote application when the remote application may become available.

The TAP may also cache remote application responses and may use them to service subsequent accesses from local applications to the same remote application and or resource. In an embodiment caching may be enabled and or disabled via a TAP attribute. Caching may also be enabled and or disabled by the TAP itself by inspecting cache control fields supported within the protocol of the remote application response messages e.g. if supported .

According to an example embodiment the TAP may mirror the content that may be included in tunneled requests that may be issued by local applications or in response s from remote applications. Such content may be stored in an addressable resource within the TAP as the TAP processes the requests and or responses that may flow through it. As such the mirroring may be opportunistic in nature and may not use any additional overhead on the applications to create or maintain the mirrored content. Additionally the mirrored content may discoverable and available by the TAP to local and remote applications. Applications may then access this content in a more efficient manner via the TAP serving as an intermediary.

The TAP may further concatenate multiple requests from local applications and may send them to the remote application using a single request e.g. assuming the remote application supports concatenated requests . In an embodiment concatenation may be controlled via configurable parameter in the TAP.

In an embodiment the TAP may filter requests targeting a remote application. This filtering may be controlled via an attribute or attributes that may be supported by the TAP. For example the TAP may support a configurable filter attribute that may be used to define the application resources and or functions that may be accessible to local applications and those that may not. The filter attribute may be used by the TAP to qualify incoming requests from local applications to determine which ones may be allowed to be forwarded and which ones may not. Examples of intelligent types of filter criteria may include one or more of the following a string or pattern to compare against the requested address a type of request e.g. reads but not writes message length e.g. greater than min length or less than max length messages content type e.g. XML and the like.

The TAP may support a service type attribute or attributes to indicate what type of services the corresponding remote application associated with the TAP supports. For example the attribute s may be configured by the TMF during the creation and setup of the TAP and then may queried by the local applications to discover what type of services the remote application may support.

Additionally the TAP may support a protocol type attribute s to indicate what type of protocol s the corresponding remote application associated with the TAP supports. The TAP may further support a content type attribute or attributes to indicate the type of content type s the corresponding remote application associated with the TAP may support.

Table 2 illustrates e a list of example TAP attributes that may be provided and or used as described herein e.g. for performing functionalities associated with the TAP .

Although some of the examples disclosed herein show one TAP being created per remote application by the TMF additional TAPs may be setup with more granularity e.g. one TAP per application resource or less granularity one TAP per device hosting multiple applications .

Inter networking between an ETSI M2M and ZigBee IP SE 2.0 via ASL tunneling mechanism or component or ASL tunnel as described herein may be provided and or used in an embodiment. For example ASL tunneling may be a mechanism technique or method for inter networking the ETSI M2M with other networking technologies such as ZigBee IP SE 2.0 e.g. since both networking technologies may define RESTful resource based ASLs that may be ideal candidates for ASL tunneling . By creating a TAP for each ZigBee IP SE 2.0 device application and or resource within the ETSI M2M resource structure each ZigBee SE 2.0 device application and or resource may be inter networked with local applications residing in the ETSI M2M network.

In an embodiment such a communication may be enabled via an ASL tunnel e.g. that may be created by the ASL tunneling mechanism or component that may include TAP and TMF that may be setup by a TMF e.g. . The TMF may create a TAP resource e.g. within the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. that may be hosted on the gateway e.g. and may configure the TAP attributes to support communication between the ETSI M2M application e.g. and the SE 2.0 application e.g. .

When configuring the TAP attributes the TMF e.g. may configure the forwarding address of the TAP to the top most resource in the ZigBee SE 2.0 application resource structure as shown in to inter network the SE 2.0 application resources and to enable or allow them to be discoverable and accessible to the ETSI M2M applications e.g. . Alternatively separate individual TAPs may be created for each SE2.0 application resource e.g. if desired . Additionally the TMF e.g. may configure the forwarding address of the TAP to a sub resource in the in the ZigBee SE 2.0 application resource structure as shown to inter network a subset of the SE 2.0 application resources and to enable or allow a subset to be discoverable and accessible to the ETSI M2M applications e.g. .

According to an example embodiment the TAP e.g. may be supported within the ETSI M2M resource structure by using one of the existing resources defined in the targeted first release of the ETSI M2M standard and adding additional attributes and functionality to the resource to support the intelligent TAP features including those described above . Some resource types that may be provided and or used may include but are not limited to the ETSI M2M application resource or the container resource. For example shows the ETSI M2M resource that may be leveraged and or enhanced with additional attributes and corresponding functionality to support the intelligent TAP features including those described above . Additionally shows how the ETSI M2M resource may be leveraged and or enhanced with additional attributes and corresponding functionality to support the intelligent TAP features disclosed herein.

In an embodiment a new dedicated resource type may also be defined in the ETSI M2M resource structure specifically targeted for supporting inter networking of the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. with the ASLs of other networking technologies. A logical place for this new TAP resource to reside in the ETSI M2M resource structure may be a sub resource under the application resource as shown in .

Additionally the TMF e.g. may be defined as a new function in the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. . Example TMF features and or capabilities for such embodiments may include performing discovery to locate its local ETSI M2M ASL SCL and or registering to it as a TMF. In such an embodiment e.g. by doing so the TMF e.g. may create a resource in the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. . The TMF e.g. may use a ETSI M2M SCL and SP Discovery procedure or method or any other suitable discover procedure or method. Alternatively the TMF e.g. may be pre provisioned with discovery information for local M2M SCL.

The TMF e.g. may also support a configurable set of attributes e.g. as set forth above to enable allow entities such as ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. and applications to configure and control TMF. These attributes may be accessed by the ETSI M2M ASL e.g. as well as local applications to interface to the TMF e.g. .

The TMF e.g. may further perform periodic discovery to detect active non ETSI M2M devices and applications in networks e.g. that may be inter connected to a ETSI M2M network. The TMF e.g. may use a discovery mechanism that may be natively supported e.g. if one exists by the network inter connected to the ETSI M2M network e.g. . Alternatively the TMF e.g. may be pre provisioned with discovery information for each available non ETSI M2M Application e.g. .

Additionally in an embodiment the TMF e.g. may create corresponding TAP resources in the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. for each newly discovered non ETSI M2M application e.g. . The TMF e.g. may configure TAP attributes for each non ETSI M2M application based on for example information the TMF discovers about the non ETSI M2M application and or information configured by the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. and applications within the TMF via the TMF s configurable attributes.

The TMF e.g. may request on behalf of each non ETSI M2M application e.g. the local M2M ASL SCL announce the TAPs to other remote ETSI M2M ASLs SCLs in the network so these TAPs e.g. may be discovered by ETSI M2M applications.

The TMF e.g. may also detect when non ETSI M2M applications may not be longer active e.g. a device hosting application may leave the network and may delete TAP resources from the local ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. .

Similar to the TAP e.g. the TMF resource may be supported within the ETSI M2M resource structure by using one of the existing resources that may be defined in the targeted first release of the ETSI M2M standard and adding additional attributes and functionality to the resource to support the intelligent TMF features e.g. as defined above . Example resource types may include the ETSI M2M application resource or the container resource.

Alternatively a new dedicated resource type can be defined in the ETSI M2M resource structure specifically targeted for supporting inter networking of the ETSI M2M ASL SCL e.g. with the ASLs of other networking technologies. A logical place for this new TMF resource to reside in the ETSI M2M resource structure would be a sub resource under the application resource as shown in .

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an eNode B a Home Node B a Home eNode B a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes etc. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in one embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light etc. . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA and or Evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and or High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA which may establish the air interface using Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1x CDMA2000 EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE GSM EDGE GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router Home Node B Home eNode B or access point for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A etc. to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution etc. and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the internet protocol IP in the TCP IP internet protocol suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Array FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components it will be appreciated that the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in one embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. It will be appreciated that the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in one embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion etc. solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. It will be appreciated that the WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

As shown in the Node Bs may be in communication with the RNC . Additionally the Node B may be in communication with the RNC . The Node Bs may communicate with the respective RNCs via an Iub interface. The RNCs may be in communication with one another via an Iur interface. Each of the RNCs may be configured to control the respective Node Bs to which it is connected. In addition each of the RNCs may be configured to carry out or support other functionality such as outer loop power control load control admission control packet scheduling handover control macrodiversity security functions data encryption and the like.

The core network shown in may include a media gateway MGW a mobile switching center MSC a serving GPRS support node SGSN and or a gateway GPRS support node GGSN . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The RNC in the RAN may be connected to the MSC in the core network via an IuCS interface. The MSC may be connected to the MGW . The MSC and the MGW may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices.

The RNC in the RAN may also be connected to the SGSN in the core network via an IuPS interface. The SGSN may be connected to the GGSN . The SGSN and the GGSN may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between and the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

As noted above the core network may also be connected to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

The RAN may include eNode Bs though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of eNode Bs while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The eNode Bs may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the eNode Bs may implement MIMO technology. Thus the eNode B for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU

Each of the eNode Bs may be associated with a particular cell not shown and may be configured to handle radio resource management decisions handover decisions scheduling of users in the uplink and or downlink and the like. As shown in the eNode Bs may communicate with one another over an X2 interface.

The core network shown in may include a mobility management gateway MME a serving gateway and a packet data network PDN gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MME may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via an S1 interface and may serve as a control node. For example the MME may be responsible for authenticating users of the WTRUs bearer activation deactivation selecting a particular serving gateway during an initial attach of the WTRUs and the like. The MME may also provide a control plane function for switching between the RAN and other RANs not shown that employ other radio technologies such as GSM or WCDMA.

The serving gateway may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via the S1 interface. The serving gateway may generally route and forward user data packets to from the WTRUs . The serving gateway may also perform other functions such as anchoring user planes during inter eNode B handovers triggering paging when downlink data is available for the WTRUs managing and storing contexts of the WTRUs and the like.

The serving gateway may also be connected to the PDN gateway which may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

The core network may facilitate communications with other networks. For example the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. For example the core network may include or may communicate with an IP gateway e.g. an IP multimedia subsystem IMS server that serves as an interface between the core network and the PSTN . In addition the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

As shown in the RAN may include base stations and an ASN gateway though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of base stations and ASN gateways while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The base stations may each be associated with a particular cell not shown in the RAN and may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the base stations may implement MIMO technology. Thus the base station for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU . The base stations may also provide mobility management functions such as handoff triggering tunnel establishment radio resource management traffic classification quality of service QoS policy enforcement and the like. The ASN gateway may serve as a traffic aggregation point and may be responsible for paging caching of subscriber profiles routing to the core network and the like.

The air interface between the WTRUs and the RAN may be defined as an R1 reference point that implements the IEEE 802.16 specification. In addition each of the WTRUs may establish a logical interface not shown with the core network . The logical interface between the WTRUs and the core network may be defined as an R2 reference point which may be used for authentication authorization IP host configuration management and or mobility management.

The communication link between each of the base stations may be defined as an R8 reference point that includes protocols for facilitating WTRU handovers and the transfer of data between base stations. The communication link between the base stations and the ASN gateway may be defined as an R6 reference point. The R6 reference point may include protocols for facilitating mobility management based on mobility events associated with each of the WTRUs 

As shown in the RAN may be connected to the core network . The communication link between the RAN and the core network may defined as an R3 reference point that includes protocols for facilitating data transfer and mobility management capabilities for example. The core network may include a mobile IP home agent MIP HA an authentication authorization accounting AAA server and a gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MIP HA may be responsible for IP address management and may enable the WTRUs to roam between different ASNs and or different core networks. The MIP HA may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices. The AAA server may be responsible for user authentication and for supporting user services. The gateway may facilitate interworking with other networks. For example the gateway may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. In addition the gateway may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN may be connected to other ASNs and the core network may be connected to other core networks. The communication link between the RAN the other ASNs may be defined as an R4 reference point which may include protocols for coordinating the mobility of the WTRUs between the RAN and the other ASNs. The communication link between the core network and the other core networks may be defined as an R5 reference which may include protocols for facilitating interworking between home core networks and visited core networks.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element can be used alone or in any combination with the other features and elements. In addition the methods described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station RNC or any host computer.

Variations of the method apparatus and system described above are possible without departing from the scope of the invention. In view of the wide variety of embodiments that can be applied it should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are exemplary only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the following claims. For instance in the exemplary embodiments described herein include handheld devices which may include or be utilized with any appropriate voltage source such as a battery and the like providing any appropriate voltage.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element can be used alone or in any combination with the other features and elements. In addition the methods described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station RNC or any host computer.

Moreover in the embodiments described above processing platforms computing systems controllers and other devices containing processors are noted. These devices may contain at least one Central Processing Unit CPU and memory. In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations or instructions may be performed by the various CPUs and memories. Such acts and operations or instructions may be referred to as being executed computer executed or CPU executed. 

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and symbolically represented operations or instructions include the manipulation of electrical signals by the CPU. An electrical system represents data bits that can cause a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical signals and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in a memory system to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the CPU s operation as well as other processing of signals. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to or representative of the data bits. It should be understood that the exemplary embodiments are not limited to the above mentioned platforms or CPUs and that other platforms and CPUs may support the described methods.

The data bits may also be maintained on a computer readable medium including magnetic disks optical disks and any other volatile e.g. Random Access Memory RAM or non volatile e.g. Read Only Memory ROM mass storage system readable by the CPU. The computer readable medium may include cooperating or interconnected computer readable medium which exist exclusively on the processing system or are distributed among multiple interconnected processing systems that may be local or remote to the processing system. It should be understood that the exemplary embodiments are not limited to the above mentioned memories and that other platforms and memories may support the described methods.

