---

title: Dynamically reconfigurable feed network for multi-element planar array antenna
abstract: A dynamically-reconfigurable feed network antenna having a microstrip patchwork radiating surface wherein individual radiating patches and elements of a stripline feed structure can be connected to and disconnected from each other via photoconductive interconnections. Commands from software alternately turn light from light emitting sources on or off, the light or lack thereof being channeled from an underside layer of the antenna so as to enable or disable the photoconductive interconnections. The resultant connection or disconnection of the radiating patches to each other and to the stripline feed structure will vary the antenna's frequency, bandwidth, and beam pointing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08654034&OS=08654034&RS=08654034
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08654034
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120323
---
The present application is a continuation in part application of and claims priority from related co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 385 469 filed on Jan. 24 2012 entitled Dynamically Reconfigurable Microstrip Antenna System also by David J. Legare. Accordingly U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 385 469 is herein incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of communications antennas. More specifically the present invention relates to reconfigurable feed networks for electronically beam steered planar antenna structures.

The development of antennas for use on moving platforms such as aircraft and ground vehicles has not been particularly difficult for low frequency applications where near omnidirectional antenna beam patterns provide sufficient radio frequency RF gain. However at higher frequencies an air or ground vehicle antenna must possess a degree of spatial directionality to achieve sufficient gain to close transmit and receive communications links.

Spatially directional antennas used in air and ground vehicle applications must also have beam steering capabilities in order to maintain line of sight communications. Where the dynamics are not too great beam steering on moving platforms has been accomplished by mechanically steering means. However when dynamics are high electronic beam phase shift steering is the only means that will suffice.

When airborne antenna applications will have an adverse impact on aerodynamics planar electronically phase shift steered antennas represent the only viable solution because they afford integration into the airframe with minimal disturbance to airflow. Conformal antennas provide the ultimate solution to integration into an airframe because conformal arrays can be shaped to match portions of an aircraft such as wing leading edges. The application of multiple conformal arrays also relaxes the requirements for phase steering because at any given time the conformal array pointed being oriented nearest to boresight can be selected to carry the communications link.

Moreover because antennas are generally designed to operate at a given relatively narrow frequency band by design their operational frequency range is generally fixed. Wide bandwidth antennas solve the problem of having to integrate a separate system of antenna arrays into an aircraft for each frequency band of interest. To the extent that a single antenna array can be reconfigured in real time to support multiple frequency bands of operation the better in terms of power weight and space.

What is needed therefore is a communications antenna system and structure that provides real time control over electronic beam steering and operational frequency band while possessing a simple planar structure with adaptability to conformal integration with a host platform.

Non patent reference to Maloney et al 1 discloses a method that addresses the physical size of antenna arrays by employing fragmented aperture techniques to provide controlled reception pattern antenna arrays having one quarter the footprint of conventional arrays. Finite difference time domain code is applied to computationally model the fragmented aperture for optimization over gain steering bandwidth and physical dimension. While apparently successful in reducing array size for a given bandwidth the fragmented aperture technique does not provide the flexibility afforded by real time reconfigurability of either parameter.

Non patent reference to Georgia Institute of Technology 2 discloses a method that apparently creates a bandwidth of 33 to 1 in a planar antenna array of given size by exploiting the properties of mutual coupling between antenna elements. However nothing in this reference indicates that mutual coupling and therefore bandwidth may be varied in real time or that the mutual coupling properties are not dependent upon antenna structure planarity so as to make amenable to conformal applications.

Non patent reference to Syntonics LLC entitled Pixel Addressable Reconfigurable Conformal Antenna PARCA Software Defined Antenna 3 discloses a method for dynamically adjusting the operating frequency beamwidth and polarization while transmitting. The PARCA employs movable millimeter scale microstrip transmission line pixels with uniform size and dimension to create a rapidly pixel by pixel changeable antenna pattern upon command. While this reference apparently provides real time control of beam steering and bandwidth with adaptability to conformal applications the method of operation requires the physical movement of microstrip pixels into and out of alignment with the radiating elements plane with no disclosed means for providing such movement.

Non patent reference to Pringle et al 4 discloses a reconfigurable antenna array employing field effect transistors FETs as switches that interconnect radiating patches on the antenna s surface. To reduce control signal routing the FETs are overlaid by a corresponding array of light emitting diodes LEDs . The LED light illuminates a photo detector in parallel with the gate source junction of the FET causing the gate source voltage to drop thereby opening the FET switch so as to connect an adjacent radiating patch. As many radiating patches as are interconnected will define the instant configuration of the antenna. While this reference represents an advancement in the state of the art of reconfigurable antennas it has not overcome the necessary complexity of routing bias voltages to each and every FET nor the associated power consumption. Additionally the reference discloses that FET switches cause signal losses at microwave frequencies and that the metallic bias lines to each FET introduce scattering that distorts the antenna pattern.

What the prior art fails to provide and what is needed therefore is an antenna which 1. is steerable and reconfigurable in terms of operating bandwidth and radiation pattern 2. planarized yet suitable for conformal applications and 3. is minimally dependent upon active circuitry and physical and electrical interconnections that create signal loss and antenna distortion.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a feed network for a multi element antenna which is electronically reconfigurable in operating frequency and bandwidth.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a feed network for an antenna which is electronically controllable in beam shape and pointing direction.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a feed network that is amenable to an antenna which features a thin planarized construction.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide a feed network for an antenna meeting all of the above objectives yet is adaptable to conformal installations on air land and sea vehicles.

An additional object of the present invention is to overcome the complexity of prior art physical and electrical interconnections between control structures and radiating structures.

Briefly stated the present invention achieves these and other objects by providing a reconfigurable feed network for antenna having a microstrip patchwork radiating surface wherein individual radiating patches and elements of a stripline feed structure can be connected to and disconnected from each other via photoconductive interconnections. Commands from software alternately turn light from light emitting sources on or off the light or lack thereof being channeled from an underside layer of the antenna so as to enable or disable the photoconductive interconnections. The resultant connection or disconnection of the radiating patches to each other and to the stripline feed structure will vary the antenna s frequency bandwidth and beam pointing.

In a fundamental embodiment of the present invention a feed network comprises RF feed points for connection to external signal media and a stripline feed network for connecting the external signal media to a plurality of antenna radiating elements and to tuning elements. The stripline feed network comprises a means for establishing and de establishing electrical connectivity between the RF feed points and radiating elements as well as between itself and any number of segments of the tuning elements. The means for establishing and de establishing electrical connectivity is responsive to a plurality of means comprised within said control layer for producing and transmitting a control signal.

Still according to a fundamental embodiment of the present invention a feed network comprises a means whereby a plurality of antenna radiating elements are electrically connected to a stripline feed network via conductive paths which transverse through the antenna s radiating layer and terminate at conductive patches on the stripline feed network.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention describes the design and fabrication of a planar antenna featuring a set of microstrip elements which can be dynamically interconnected and de interconnected so as to re pattern the radiating structure of the antenna in order to tune it over a broad frequency band as well as produce a wide range of beam shapes and pointing directions.

Referring to the antenna surface is uniformly covered with a dense array of individual very closely spaced electrically conductive segments or pixels preferably a thin metal layer and square in shape each joined to each of its adjacent segments by a comparatively narrow square or rectangular photoconductive connector which is in electrical contact with or actually overlaps any two adjacent metallic segments thus filling in the narrow gap between them. Each photoconductive connector is comprised of a photoconductive material made up of CdS or some variation thereof or substitution therefore which is optimized in chemical composition and physical structure of the connector to have a very high electrical conductivity when exposed to light and which becomes virtually non conductive in the absence of light. A brief literature search indicates that a dynamic range of up to 10 ie 0.1 ohm on state to 100K ohm off state is readily available with off the shelf photoconductive material technology.

Still referring to additionally a coplanar array of light emitting elements LEDs or laser diodes each of whose outputs is co aligned and confined to the area of its mating photoconductive connector is closely coupled to the underside of antenna surface i.e. non RF emitting side . Thus a continuous electrically conductive patch or pattern of patches comprised of the electrically conductive metallic segments joined by their adjacent photoconductive connectors making up a microstrip antenna element or multiple elements as well as associated strip lines feeds etc. can be created on the antenna RF emitting surface by activating the corresponding pattern of LED s in the coplanar underside array . Note that the required ground plane could be placed either above or below the plane of the LED array in the coplanar underside array in the former case holes would be placed in the ground plane to allow the light from each LED to reach its corresponding photoconductive connector . It would be readily perceived by one skilled in the art that even though the front side of antenna surface is typically referred to as the RF emitting side it could also function as an RF receiver or both emitter and receiver simultaneously.

The resolution of the conductive pattern on the antenna surface will be limited by the size of the individual photoconductively connected metallic segments which collectively comprise the active area s of the antenna. Basic physics requires that the size of the metallic segments be no larger than about 1 10 for the highest frequency supported in order not to sacrifice antenna efficiency. It is evident from the foregoing that any conductive shape having this limited resolution can be sequentially projected on the antenna surface at a rate only constrained by the time constant of the photoconductive material used to form the connections photoconductive connectors between the metallic segments . Thus although the time constant for existing photoconductors is relatively high compared to many semiconductor materials it is reasonable to assume that the connectors could be switched fast enough to reconfigure re pattern the antenna at a rate of at least ten to twenty times per second. This would be sufficient to support most applications such as an airborne ground or sea vehicle based satellite communications link for Communications On The Move.

To complete the antenna system of the present invention software control of the array of LEDs is utilized to pattern the antenna surface in response to user inputs such as frequency band beam shape including single or multiple beams and pointing direction as well as sensor feedback to correct for platform position motion and vibration. This problem is readily solvable using conventional software control system design and while the element of software control is part of the present invention the details for the implementation of any particular software control scheme is not disclosed herein.

Among the many benefits of the present invention is the apparent ease of large antenna area and large scale fabrication using established processing techniques. Unlike conventional phased array approaches the present invention could be orders of magnitude less expensive and complex. It would also have an inherently higher modulation bandwidth lower power consumption and be much thinner and lighter in weight. It would thus also be very easy to make conformal to almost any curvature and be well adapted to deployment on any airborne platform. Because these processing techniques are scalable to very small dimensions it should also be possible to fabricate an antenna that can operate efficiently up to at least 80 GHz.

Referring to both and depicts a preferred embodiment of the present invention showing what could be a whole or merely a small square portion of a large antenna implementation. The dimensions are somewhat relative only with actual dimensions dependent on desired maximum frequency properties of the materials employed antenna application and fabrication techniques used in manufacturing the antenna. Both and depict an assembly of three basic layers and that comprise the antenna in the preferred embodiment. depicts the invention with the RF emitting side of the antenna facing while depicts the invention with the rear or non RF emitting LED underside coplanar array facing. The three layers would be closely bonded together in the completed product thus forming a potentially very thin and possibly very flexible dynamically reconfigurable antenna under software control.

Again referring to and note first that elements and represent any of the metallic segments or photoconductive connector components respectively comprising the front RF emitting surface of the antenna. These are essentially deposited on to the emitting surface . The emitting surface is a sheet of dielectric material which is either transparent to the light emitted from the LEDs contained in the non RF emitting LED coplanar underside array or alternately perforated with a plurality of holes being located to correspond to each LED to allow light from each LED to illuminate its corresponding photoconductive connector which electrically bridges the gap between each metallic segment on the RF emitting antenna surface . Middle layer is a metallic sheet which forms the ground plane of the antenna. The middle layer ground plane contains an array of through holes being located to correspond to each LED and photoconductive connector to allow light from the LEDs to illuminate the photoconductive connectors causing an electrically conductive path to form between corresponding adjacent metallic segments when given LEDs are turned on by software control. The array of LEDs corresponding to through holes and photoconductive connectors are resident on the LED coplanar underside array which is a sheet of appropriate material to contain the LEDs and preferably as well as the power and control circuitry necessary to interface with software commands that create the desired lighted antenna image pattern on the array of LEDs and thus the corresponding electrically conductive pattern from the metallic segments on the radiating antenna surface .

A very simple example of this relationship is shown in in which four metallic segments comprising the upper right hand corner shaded black of the radiating antenna surface are depicted as being melded into one electrically continuous unit by light emitted by the four shaded black LEDs shown in the upper right hand corner of the LED coplanar underside array with the light passing through corresponding through holes shaded black in the upper right hand corner of the middle layer ground plane and illuminating the corresponding four photoconductive connectors not shaded in the upper right hand corner of the radiating antenna surface . It is obvious that the array of LEDs shown could be replaced by any light emitting display of the appropriate spectral content and power needed to activate the photoconductive connectors .

Referring now to in some applications of the invention metallic segments similar in composition and thickness as well as on the same RF emitting receiving antenna surface but being typically much larger in size and potentially of a different shape could be added for the purpose of providing for one or more solid patch antenna elements RF feed points for connecting external RF cable or waveguide for transmitting power to the antenna or collecting power received by the antenna or other functions such as tuning stubs for impedance matching for example.

Additionally it may also be advantageous or desirable to incorporate fixed electrical elements not shown such as surface mounted components such as resistors capacitors and inductors into the antenna surface for purposes such as impedance matching.

Note that the embodiment depicted in shows an array of four fixed solid antenna patch elements connected to an RF feed point via a stripline feed network comprised of a continuum of light activated metallic segments see and and corresponding photoconductive connectors see and according to the foregoing description of the invention. Also note that the portion of the stripline feed network that photoconductively connects to the RF feed point also connects via adjacent photoconductive connectors see and on either side to tuning stub elements . Active tuning stub elements could alternatively be dynamically formed via activation of metallic segments see and and photoconductive connectors see and that would otherwise occupy the surface area covered by fixed geometry tuning stub elements .

The advantages of utilizing fixed antenna patch elements for example include the higher efficiency achieved by maximizing the use of fixed geometry solid as opposed to photoconductively and dynamically interconnectable segmented radiating elements. However the tradeoff is that the antenna although having the capability of electronic beam steering would only be able to operate at the fixed center frequency dictated by the dimensions of the fixed antenna patch element size.

As mentioned previously RF feed points having the correct impedance matching properties are required to couple RF energy into and out of the antenna surface .

Referring to illustrates possible locations where this coupling of RF energy can be accomplished including from the edges of the front radiating antenna surface or from the back non radiating layer LED coplanar underside array . Note that the latter requires clearance holes which transgress layers and to allow the external RF cable or waveguide to be routed in such a way that it doesn t make contact with either of the layers or as it fed through to the front side of layer of antenna surface where it makes appropriate electrical contact with an RF entry point connection not shown which is essentially the same as the RF entry point connection illustrated for the aforementioned edge connection.

Referring to illustrates an alternative antenna configuration utilizing the foregoing techniques which comprises a radiating receiving surface antenna module and a separate underlying RF feed network module containing the RF feed network structure. Note that the underlying RF feed network module is mandatorily constructed according to the design illustrated in and not shown in detail so that the feed network can be dynamically reconfigured to provide for software controlled antenna functions such as beam steering as will be further described. The upper antenna module could be constructed likewise but could also be more simply comprised of one or more solid fixed antenna patch elements see also . In this case each antenna patch element electrically connects to a corresponding fixed conductive pad on the surface of the RF feed network module through a vertical i.e. perpendicular to the surface of antenna module conductive path which transgresses the total thickness of the antenna module . A software controlled dynamically formed stripline feed network connected to external RF transmit and or receive RF cable or waveguide which contacts the RF feed network module at impedance matched conductive entry point communicates with each patch element via corresponding vertical conductive paths . Note that the connections between each conductive pad and the stripline network are made via activation of the intervening photoconductive connectors as described in the foregoing detailed descriptions see and .

Still referring to depicts a simple antenna array of four solid fixed antenna patch elements but in practice could be a very dense complex array of up to hundreds or even thousands of solid fixed antenna patch elements along with a corresponding RF feed network module . A basic purpose of the dynamically formed stripline feed network would be to dynamically vary the path lengths between the RF entry point and each antenna patch element to create a relative phase shift between the elements to provide for electronic non mechanical beam steering of the antenna module under software control. An example of a method of RF path length variation is shown in as snake lines dynamically generated in series with appropriate portions of the stripline feed network .

Note that in actual product form the antenna module and RF feed network module may be bonded together to form a monolithic relatively thin and potentially flexible planar antenna structure. The advantage of the present system configuration of in which the antenna patch elements and the RF stripline network are contained in two closely spaced parallel planes as compared to the simpler single plane configuration of and in which the antenna patch elements and RF stripline network are on the same plane is that the former obviously allows for much denser spacing of the antenna patch elements because the entire surface of the RF feed network module is now available for dynamic configuration of the stripline feed network . This denser spacing of the antenna patch elements provides for a better antenna beam pattern with higher efficiency and much better side lobe control.

From the foregoing descriptions and accompanying drawings it can also be seen that the invention can be implemented in a number of hybrid forms in which multiple external transmit and or receive RF cable or waveguide feed lines attached to multiple RF entry points can be employed to feed individual transmit and or receive beam patterns or individually phase shifted to feed individual but cooperative subsections of the antenna system. Likewise multiple independent antenna modules configured as in or could be operated together so as to provide full hemispherical or greater coverage when mounted on an aircraft for example.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

