---

title: Fast-scanning SPM scanner and method of operating same
abstract: A high-bandwidth SPM tip scanner includes an objective that is vertically movable within the scan head to increase the depth of focus for the sensing light beam. Movable optics also are preferably provided to permit targeting of the sensing light beam on the SPM's probe and to permit the sensing light beam to track the probe during scanning. The targeting and tracking permit the impingement of a small sensing light beam spot on the probe under direct visual inspection of focused illumination beam of an optical microscope integrated into the SPM and, as a result, permits the use of a relatively small cantilever with a commensurately small resonant frequency. Images can be scanned on large samples having a largest dimension exceeding 7 mm with a resolution of less than 1 Angstrom and while scanning at rates exceeding 30 Hz.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08443459&OS=08443459&RS=08443459
owner: Bruker Nano, Inc.
number: 08443459
owner_city: Santa Barbara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
This application is a continuation of co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 687 304 filed Mar. 16 2007 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agency NIST ATP Award 70NANB4H3055 . The United States has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to scanning probe microscopes SPMs and more particularly relates to a scanner for a SPM that can acquire high quality images at high acquisition rates and to a method of operating such a scanner.

Scanning probe microscopes SPMs such as the atomic force microscope AFM are devices which typically use a tip and low forces to characterize the surface of a sample down to atomic dimensions. Generally SPMs include a probe having a tip that is introduced to a surface of a sample to detect changes in the characteristics of a sample. By providing relative scanning movement between the tip and the sample surface characteristic data can be acquired over a particular region of the sample and a corresponding map of the sample can be generated.

The atomic force microscope AFM is a very popular type of SPM. The probe of the typical AFM includes a very small cantilever which is fixed to a support at its base and which typically has a sharp probe tip attached to the opposite free end. The probe tip is brought very near to or into contact with a surface of a sample to be examined and the deflection of the cantilever in response to the probe tip s interaction with the sample is measured with an extremely sensitive deflection detector often an optical lever system such as described in Hansma et al. U.S. Pat. No. RE 34 489 or some other deflection detector such as strain gauges capacitance sensors etc. The probe is scanned over a surface using a high resolution three axis scanner acting on the sample support and or the probe. The instrument is thus capable of creating relative motion between the probe and the sample while measuring the topography or some other surface property of the sample as described e.g. in Hansma et al. U.S. Pat. No. RE 34 489 Elings et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 266 801 and Elings et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 412 980.

AFMs may be designed to operate in a variety of modes including contact mode and oscillating mode. This is accomplished by moving either the sample or the probe assembly up and down relatively perpendicular to the surface of the sample in response to a deflection of the cantilever of the probe assembly as it is scanned across the surface. Scanning typically occurs in an x y plane that is at least generally parallel to the surface of the sample and the vertical movement occurs in the z direction that is perpendicular to the x y plane. Note that many samples have roughness curvature and tilt that deviate from a flat plane hence the use of the term generally parallel. In this way the data associated with this vertical motion can be stored and then used to construct an image of the sample surface corresponding to the sample characteristic being measured e.g. surface topography. Similarly in another preferred mode of AFM operation known as TappingMode TappingMode is a trademark owned by the present assignee the tip is oscillated at or near a resonant frequency of the associated cantilever of the probe. A feedback loop attempts to keep the amplitude of this oscillation constant to minimize the tracking force i.e. the force resulting from tip sample interaction. Alternative feedback arrangements keep the phase or oscillation frequency constant. As in contact mode these feedback signals are then collected stored and used as data to characterize the sample. Note that SPM and the acronyms for the specific types of SPMs may be used herein to refer to either the microscope apparatus or the associated technique e.g. atomic force microscopy. 

Regardless of their mode of operation AFMs can obtain resolution down to the atomic level on a wide variety of insulating or conductive surfaces in air liquid or vacuum by using piezoelectric scanners optical lever deflection detectors and very small cantilevers fabricated using photolithographic techniques. Because of their resolution and versatility AFMs are important measurement devices in many diverse fields ranging from semiconductor manufacturing to biological research.

As with most measuring devices AFMs often require a trade off between resolution and acquisition speed. That is some currently available AFMs can scan a simple surface with sub angstrom resolution. These scanners are capable of scanning only relatively small sample areas and even then at only relatively low scan rates. Traditional commercial AFMs usually require a total scan time typically taking several minutes to cover an area of several microns at high resolution e.g. 512 512 pixels and low tracking force. The practical limit of AFM scan speed is a result of the maximum speed at which the AFM can be scanned while maintaining a tracking force that is low enough not to damage or cause minimal damage to the tip and or sample. Professor Toshio Ando at Kanazawa University in Japan has made tremendous progress with high speed AFM using an AFM that scans mm sized samples over small distances typically less than 2 um. Professor Ando has achieved video scan rates with high resolution for this combination of small samples and small scan sizes.

Other systems typically called tip scanners are known or have been proposed and or implemented in which the probe is mounted on the scanner. One such system is incorporated in a line of instruments marketed by Veeco Instruments under the name Dimension . That system employs a relatively massive tube scanner for the Z actuator and has relatively low bandwidth. Another system is disclosed in Published U.S. Application Ser. No. 2006 00272398 to Hwang. In the system of the Hwang application the probe is mounted on an actuator that in turn is mounted on an optical objective that focuses incoming laser light. The objective in turn is mounted on an x y actuator. However because the objective and other optics of the system are fixed relative to the probe relatively large probes having a width of at least of 20 m a length of more than 40 m are required to assure positioning of the focused laser beam on the cantilever. The typical probes used also have a resonant frequency Fof roughly 400 kHz and a quality factor Q of around 400. The resulting response bandwidth for these probes is of the order of F Q 1 kHz. Due in part to its low bandwidth probe the resulting system has a maximum scan rate of less than 30 Hz or 30 scan lines per second and more typical imaging speeds are around 1 Hz.

On the other hand SPMs that can acquire data rapidly can also suffer unacceptable tradeoffs. One such system is marketed by Infinetisma under the name Video AFM . The Video AFM operates at video rates but with significant compromises to signal to noise ratio and resulting image quality. The Infinitesima system also operates in contact mode with force feedback that is not fast enough to respond to variations in sample corrugation within a scan line. In this system the sample or the probe is mounted on a tuning fork. The probe is driven into contact with the sample while the sample or the probe is scanned by vibrating the tuning fork at or near its resonant frequency. Because the tuning forks need to be quite small typically on the order of a few mm in size to achieve high resonant frequencies they are very sensitive to being loaded by extra mass. As a result only very small on the order of a few mm in size samples or cantilever substrates can be mounted to the tuning fork without degrading the performance.

It is known to combine an AFM with a conventional optical microscope to provide a view of the surface features of the sample. Notably high performance microscope objectives have a short working distance and must be positioned close to the sample surface. High resolution optical imaging is therefore difficult to implement in combination with traditional AFM detectors because there is insufficient space between the bottom of the objective and the probe to accommodate the geometry for the incoming and outgoing detection beams. Because of the weight of the optical microscope it is difficult to incorporate the optics of an optical microscope into the scanner of the AFM without unacceptably reducing the instrument s scan rate.

Some optical microscope equipped SPMs have attempted to overcome this limitation by directing laser light through the microscope objective. One such system has been commercialized by Surface Imaging Systems under the name ULTRAOBJECTIVE and is disclosed in international publication number WO 01 23 939. In the ULTRAOBJECTIVE system a near field AFM probe a z actuator assembly for the probe and optical focusing system are provided in a single housing in order to provide an interchangeable objective that can be inserted in the objective turret of an optical microscope. Its objective is fixed relative to the probe and it lacks any mechanism for dynamically focusing the laser beam onto the probe.

Another drawback of conventional optical microscope equipped AFMs is that the optical microscope is provided only to allow the user to inspect the sample. It plays no role in focusing the laser beam on the cantilever. Hence even if the system were provided for focusing the light spot on the cantilever no mechanism would be available to provide the user with optical feedback during a focusing process.

The need therefore has arisen to provide a tip scanner for a SPM of a sufficiently high lowest fundamental lowest resonant frequency and sufficiently high resolution to make high resolution scans at high scan rates.

The need has additionally arisen to provide a SPM that can focus and target a sensing light beam on a probe thereby permitting the use of relatively small focused beam spots and small probes in the SPM.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention a SPM with an integrated optical microscope is provided having a scan had that can acquire precise imaging data very rapidly. An objective is provided in the scan head to focus sensing and illumination light on the probe of the SPM. The SPM has a relatively stiff relatively light weight scanner having a high fundamental resonant frequency. The objective preferably is vertically movable within the scan head to increase the focus range for a laser or other sensing light source permitting the use of a relatively high cantilever with a commensurately high resonant frequency. The movable objective also permits illumination light to be focused on distinctly spaced objects such as the probe and a sample surface located well beneath the probe. The objective is preferably also a tracking objective that moves with the scanner in the x y plane to allow a sensing light beam s focused spot to remain focused on the probe during scanning. Optics are also preferably provided to permit panning of both the illumination beam of an integrated optical microscope and the sensing light beam as a unit. This panning permits the alignment or targeting of the focused sensing light beam on the cantilever under direct or indirect visual inspection of the focused illumination beam. This panning permits the use of an even smaller cantilever with a commensurately smaller resonant frequency.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention an SPM is provided having a tip scanner including an objective that bears the tip. The tip scanner has a lowest fundamental resonant frequency greater than 2 kHz preferably greater than 5 kHz and even more preferably greater than 9 kHz. The objective is preferably a scanned objective that may or may not be moved by the actuator.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a SPM is provided having a tip scanner including an objective that bears the tip. The tip scanner has a fundamental resonant frequency greater than 500 Hz and a sensing light beam focused spot diameter of less than 10 m. Preferably the tip scanner has a fundamental resonant frequency greater than greater than 1 kHz and a sensing light beam focused spot diameter of less than 5 m.

A SPM configured in accordance with the invention could be used to scan a wide variety of samples including patterned wafers biological samples polymers thin films and data storage device component.

In accordance with still another aspect of the invention a method is provided of scanning a sample with a SPM that includes obtaining images with a resolution of less than 1 Angstrom while scanning along lines of at least 4 m at rates exceeding 50 Hz. These rates preferably exceed 100 Hz or 200 Hz and even more preferably exceed 400 Hz.

These and other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications.

As discussed in the Summary section above the invention relates to a fast acting scan head for a scanning probe microscope SPM such as an atomic force microscope AFM . The scan head includes a probe an actuator for the probe and an optical objective that collectively form a scanner that moves as a unit for scanning. They are also arranged to permit the sample to be inspected at engagement using an illumination beam and to place the focal point of the sensing light beam on the cantilever of the probe.

The objective may also be movable in the z direction to increase the range of focus of the objective. It also preferably comprises a targeting objective that moves with the scanner so as to remain focused on the cantilever during scanning. An AFM will now be disclosed having a scan head constructed in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention it being understood that the scan head as disclosed can be used with a variety of other AFMs other SPMs and even other probe based instruments. It should also be understood that a wide number of variations could be made to the disclosed scan head without departing from the spirit of the invention.

Turning to a an AFM is schematically illustrated incorporating a scan head constructed in accordance with the present invention. The scan head is mounted over a sample support and bears a probe . An actuator not shown drives the scan head and or sample support to move in at least the z direction and preferably the x y direction as well as represented by the arrows in . The probe includes a cantilever and a tip mounted on the free end portion of the cantilever . The probe may be coupled to an oscillating actuator or drive that is used to drive probe to oscillate for instance at or near the cantilever s resonant frequency. The oscillating drive may be coupled to an x y actuator scanner described below and probe or may be formed integrally with the cantilever of probe as part of a self actuated cantilever probe. An electronic signal is applied from an AC signal source under control of an AFM controller to drive to oscillate probe preferably at a free oscillation amplitude A. The signal source may be contained within the controller . Controller typically consists of at least one computer and associated electronics and software that perform the tasks of data acquisition and control of the AFM. The controller may consist of a single integrated analog and or digital unit or may consist of a distributed array of electronics and software. The controller may use a typical desktop computer a laptop computer an industrial computer and or one or more embedded processors. It will most likely be located off board the scan head .

Probe can also be actuated to move in the x and y directions relative to the sample support using a suitable x y actuator mounted on the scan head . The preferred x y actuator is described below. In the preferred embodiment the moveable portions of the x y actuator and the elements that move with those portions during scanning form a scanner. For purposes of this application the term tip scanner means an assembly capable of scanning the probe in a plane generally parallel to the sample the x y plane .

In the preferred embodiment the scanner carries the probe and additionally z actuator and objective . Note that the z actuator can alternatively or additionally be configured to be separate from the scanner and move the sample instead. Probe can also be actuated to move in the z direction using a z actuator . The z actuator preferably comprises a piezoelectric stack because the scanner is configured to scan the probe over the sample rather than vice versa the scanner is commonly referred to as a tip scanner. Alternatively the scanner or portions of it may be employed to move sample support . For instance the probe may be mounted on a z actuator that drives the probe to move in a vertical or z direction and the sample support may be mounted on a separate x y actuator that drives the sample support to move in the x y plane.

The actuators for the x y and z axes are preferably piezoelectric stacks. However they can also employ any number of alternative actuation technologies including but not limited to other piezoelectric devices actuators formed from electrostrictive magnetorstrictive electrostatic inductive and or voice coil drive mechanisms and other actuators that generate a motion in response to an input signal.

Probe is preferably a microfabricated cantilever with an integrated tip. For optimal high speed performance the preferred dimensions of the probes are of the order of 35 m or less in length with resonant frequencies greater than 800 kHz but many other dimensions including larger and smaller cantilevers can be used successfully. Probe alternatively can be any of the wide field of probes that are used in scanning probe microscopy including but not limited to probes for magnetic force microscopy electric force microscopy surface potential microscopy chemical force microscopy probes with carbon nanotube or carbon nanofibers and probes for aperture based or apertureless near field scanning optical microscopy.

In operation as the probe is oscillated and brought into contact with a sample on the sample support sample characteristics can be monitored by detecting changes in the oscillation of probe . In particular a beam from a sensing beam light source is directed by optics in the scan head towards the backside of probe and is then reflected back to the optics and then directed towards a detector such as a four quadrant photodetector. The sensing light source is typically a laser preferably a visible or infrared laser diode. The sensing light beam can also be generated by other light sources for example a He Ne or other laser source a superluminescent diode SLD a LED an optical fiber or any other light source that can be focused to a small spot. The term laser in the rest of this specification should be understood to cover a wide variety of these and other alternative light sources.

As the scanning light beam translates across the detector appropriate signals are transmitted to controller which processes the signals to determine changes in the oscillation of probe . Controller typically generates control signals to actuate the z actuator under feedback to maintain a setpoint characteristic of the oscillation of probe . For example controller may be used to maintain the oscillation amplitude at a setpoint value A to insure a generally constant force between the tip and the sample. Alternatively a setpoint phase or frequency may be used.

Still referring to the scan head also supports an optical microscope permitting the optical inspection of the sample and also permitting focusing of the sensing light beam. It may be controlled at least in part by the controller . The microscope includes a portion of the optics as well as the objective . The optics direct both the illumination beam and the sensing light beam to the probe and direct the reflected sensing light beam to the detector and the reflected illumination beam to a receiver . The objective preferably may additionally be focused on a sample that is beyond the position of the cantilever. In this case the illumination beam is focused on the sample and an image of the same is transmitted through the objective and to the receiver . The receiver may for instance be an imaging device such as a camera. The illustrated camera is positioned off board the scan head and serves both as a light source for the optical microscope and as the imaging device. A CCD camera is a suitable imaging device. Alternatively or additionally a separate light source and receiver could be provided on board and or off board the scan head . In addition to or instead of a camera the receiver could be the human eye.

The illumination beam may be any form of light that can be observed either visually or with suitable instrumentation. It preferably comes from an ultra bright Light Emitting Diode LED but may also be an incandescent fluorescent or arc based light source. It may be either monochromatic e.g. a red LED or a wider spectrum source approximating white light or even being white light

A workstation is also provided in the controller and or in a separate controller or system of connected or stand alone controllers that receives the collected data from the controller and manipulates the data obtained during scanning to perform the point selection curve fitting and distance determining operations. The workstation can store the resulting information in memory use it for additional calculations and or display it on a suitable monitor and or transmit it to another computer or device by wire or wirelessly. The memory may comprise any computer readable storage medium examples including but not limited to a hard disk network storage a flash drive or a CD ROM.

The objective is located in the optical path from the optics to the probe . Preferably it bears the z actuator and the probe so that all three devices move vertically as a unit. It also is preferably a scanned objective. That is it is preferably coupled to the x y actuator so that the objective z actuator and probe all move horizontally in the x y plane under the power of the x y actuator . In the preferred embodiment the objective accomplishes two tasks 1 focusing the sensing light beam onto the probe and 2 providing an optical image of the probe and or sample. In alternative embodiments the objective can be arranged to accomplish only one of these tasks and or additional tasks. In the preferred embodiment the objective focuses incoming sensing and illumination light on an object beneath the scan head typically the cantilever and or the sample. In addition in conjunction with the optics it directs outgoing illumination light to the receiver and outgoing sensing light to the detector . The outgoing illumination light forms an image of the object. A portion of the objective containing its optics can be driven to move in the z direction under power of a drive in order to extend the focus range of the objective as discussed below.

As discussed briefly above in connection with the optics and objective direct the incoming sensing light beam to the cantilever and direct the outgoing sensing light beam to the detector . The illumination beam is also directed to and from the objective by a mirror located above the remainder of the optics . A collimating lens and an aperture are located upstream from the optics in the direction of incoming sensing light beam transmission. The collimating lens transforms incoming light into a beam of parallel rays. It could be formed integrally with or contained in the sensing light beam source . The aperture shapes the focused light beam at the cantilever plane so as to have a generally elliptical or rectangular shape having a relatively narrow width or minor diameter to minimize the spot size and also to maximize optical lever sensitivity. The minor diameter refers to the measurement of the spot size across the direction of least extent. This permits use of a smaller cantilever as described in detail below. Similarly shaped apertures such as ovoid apertures could also be used for this purpose. This does not mean that an aperture is mandatory to the system. An aperture could be eliminated entirely or replaced by a circular aperture in which case the minor diameter would be the only diameter.

Still referring to the optics include a device that deflects the shaped sensing light beam downwardly from the aperture . A standard mirror would be suitable for this purpose if some other mechanism were provided for directing the illumination beam through the objective . However in the preferred example is in which illumination beam enters the objective directly from above the device preferably is a filter that is reflective of the wavelengths of sensing light beam on the order of 690 nm or higher for a red laser diode and that is transmissive of the wavelengths of the illumination beam generally covering a wide range of the visible light spectrum. For an alternate preferred embodiment employing an infrared light source for the sensing beam the cutoff wavelength for filter would be correspondingly higher. A prism having two effective mirrors and is provided for directing outgoing sensing light to a mirror . The mirror then deflects the reflected light upwardly to the detector .

Still referring to in the preferred embodiment the objective is a dual lens achromatic objective. It includes first and second vertically spaced lens assemblies and that focus on incoming sensing light beam to a focal point which ideally is located on the back surface of the cantilever . Each of the lens assemblies and is formed from two lenses affixed to one another. This combination of four lenses reduces the aberration of the objective to the levels desired to both focus the sensing light beam onto the probe and provide a high quality color image of the sample from the illumination beam. Lenses and are preferably achromatic doublets. Each lens preferably is customized to provide bright optical imaging and to provide a relatively broad wavelength spectrum.

The lenses of the preferred embodiment were custom designed using ZEMAX lens optimization software to minimize the optical path difference over the wavelengths of the illumination beam. In the preferred embodiment the lens assembly has a working distance of greater than 8 mm and more preferably greater than 10 mm.

The objective is also preferably relatively wide so as to provide a relatively large numerical aperture NA to accommodate significant cantilever bending typically on the order of 4 . The preferred objective has an NA of more than about 0.28 preferably more than about 0.35 and most preferably of about 0.40. In the preferred embodiment the light path for the illumination beam and the probe sample imaging system is stepped down due to a numerical aperture of 0.28 to keep the aberrations at an acceptable level for the probe sample image. A larger fraction of the objective is used to accommodate the reflected sensing light beam.

This combination of large numerical aperture and careful attention to minimizing aberrations produces the desired small laser spot diameter of less than 20 m preferably less than 10 m and most preferably of about 5 m.

While the above description outlines the objective construction in the preferred embodiment it is also possible to use a wide variety of different objective arrangements including more or fewer lenses. For a design that is optimized for maximum scan speed at the possible expense of image quality it is possible to replace the four element objective with an objective with a single lens. Aspheric lenses for example formed from lighter weight plastics can achieve the combination of low aberration wide NA and low mass. Conventional stock lenses can also be used in a wide variety of configurations to form a suitable objective.

Referring now to B and a preferred embodiment of the scan head is shown less schematically. Scan head includes an enclosed housing having upper and lower surfaces left and right surfaces and front and rear surfaces . A first aperture is formed in the front surface for receiving a window for the illumination light beam and a second aperture is formed in the bottom surface for receiving objective housing . First and second knobs extend from the right and front surfaces and and third and fourth knobs and extend upward from the upper surface . The first and second knobs and are threaded into a support in the scan head and engage a carriage that bears the detector . These knobs and can be manipulated to position the carriage in the x y plane to assure that the detector is centered over the incoming sensing light beam. This permits the use of a smaller detector potentially further increasing scan rate.

The objective is preferably mounted in the scan head so as to permit the objective to be moved up and down relative to the probe to increase the range of focus of the objective hence permitting the use of a smaller cantilever and potentially further increasing scan rate. This vertical measurement also permits focusing of the illumination beam on an object beneath the cantilever . This facilitates for example sample inspection in preparation for probe sample engagement. It also is of relatively low mass so as to not significantly decrease the scanner s fundamental resonant frequency and hence maintain high scan rates. Toward this end the lenses and that form the optics of the objective are mounted in the housing or barrel as seen in so as to be movable vertically relative to the barrel. The barrel is mounted on the x y actuator . A preferred arrangement for the mounting of the barrel on the x ray y actuator is shown in . Before describing the preferred arrangement in detail it should be noted that an x y actuator of the type described herein was developed by Dr. Paul Hansma and is assigned to The Regents of the University of California. It is described e.g. in published U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 2006 0112760 the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The preferred arrangement includes a rigid mounting plate or scanner stage fixed to the interior support of the scan head . The rigid mounting plate has a generally cross shaped aperture formed centrally therein that has two sets of orthogonally arranged x and y segments and . Two sets of x and y piezoelectric actuators and extend longitudinally along the centers of the respective segments . One of the x actuator sets will now be described it being understood that this description applies equally to the other x actuator and the y actuators as well. One actuator of each set has an outer end mounted on the end of the respective aperture segment by a mount and an inner end supported on a central flexure that spans the aperture segment . The other actuator of each set has an outer end connected to the central flexure and an inner end connected to a second flexure that also spans of the aperture segment . The first or central flexure of each set is not required but is beneficial because it increases the lowest resonant frequency of the associated piezoelectric actuator.

Actuators in combination with the flexures and provide an effective stiffness that when loaded by the moving mass of the scanner is designed to provide a fundamental resonant frequency of the scanner of at least 2 kHz more preferably of at least 5 kHz and even more preferably of more than 9 kHz. The significance of this feature will now be explained.

In scanning probe microscopes feedback loops are used for multiple purposes. First a feedback loop is used to attempt to maintain relatively constant value of average tip sample interaction by maintaining the cantilever deflection amplitude phase and or frequency constant. This is often referred to as the z feedback loop. The speed of the z feedback loop is governed by the speed of the cantilever response the z actuator and any associated electronics and amplifiers in the feedback loop. Another common form of feedback is position feedback. This type of feedback attempts to control the relative XY position of the scanner to compensate for thermal drift and nonlinearities hysteresis and or creep in the actuator.

The fundamental resonant frequency Fof a scanner can limit the usable feedback feedback bandwidth of the scanner. In general the dynamic behavior of a mechanical system is determined by the fundamental resonant frequency. The fundamental resonant frequency is characterized by a sharp increase in phase lag and gain in the frequency response of a mechanical system. The addition of feedback control is used to modify the dynamic behavior by changing the gain and phase of a system as a function of frequency. For example consider a simple feedback loop for example a PI proportional integral feedback loop common in probe microscopy. This type of control applies the sum of a constant gain proportional with that of 20 db decade gain with 90 phase lag integral gain . This feedback loop goes unstable as the gain is more than one at a phase shift of 180 . In this case positive feedback occurs and the control loop becomes unstable. When a mechanical body goes through a simple resonance 90 degrees of phase shift are accumulated at the resonant peak and there is generally an amplification of the actuator gain. Real mechanical systems often have more complex phase behavior. The controller gains are typically adjusted to roll off the overall system gain as the frequency approaches the actuator resonance. This strategy removes under damped behavior in the control loop by minimizing the gain and reducing the phase lag near the fundamental resonant frequency. In practice the feedback gains may be reduced even well below those at the limit of stability to provide less overshoot in response to a step. In general these steps will reduce the scanner system s usable bandwidth to a fraction of the fundamental resonant frequency. Advanced control algorithms can mitigate the impact of these resonant frequencies. For xy scan motion the bandwidth of the scanner is typically limited by resonances of the xy scanner and or resonances in the z direction that couple to xy motion. For the z axis the feedback bandwidth may also be significantly limited by the cantilever response time in addition or instead of the z actuator resonance.

For the purposes of this application the term fundamental resonant frequency is defined to be the lowest frequency at which there is a scanner resonance that has an impact on the usable bandwidth of a scanner. This definition of lowest fundamental resonant frequency specifically excludes those resonances that have no significant impact on the usable bandwidth of the scanner. These minor resonances may cause a variation in the system gain over a frequency range but do not serve as a major limit for the feedback loop stability.

In a mechanical system additional resonant behavior may exist in the frequency response at frequencies less than the fundamental resonant frequency. This resonant behavior does not affect the usable bandwidth if it is over damped in nature due to a limited amount of associated phase lag and or it is not of sufficient amplitude to be readily observed by the probe microscope electronics. The typical signature of a fundamental resonant frequency that does limit the bandwidth of a scanner is that there is a 90 or more phase shift at the resonance peak that is observed by the probe microscope system electronics. To be observed a resonance must is one which generates an under damped response of sufficient magnitude to be detectable by an actuator position sensor such as one of the sensors discussed below and or the detector and their associated electronics. The reason for this caveat in the definition of fundamental resonant frequency is that it is possible to construct a tip scanner that has a component for example a cantilever spring clip with a resonant frequency that is very low and yet does not affect the scanner performance.

By the definition above the fundamental resonant frequency of the tip scanner assembly of the preferred embodiment is about 9.4 kHz. The lowest resonant mode is a vertical or z axis drumhead mode where the objective oscillates up and down relative to the x y plane of the scanner. The actual fundamental resonant frequencies of this system are shown by the transfer function elements or Bode Plots and of . illustrate the response in the x direction to driving the x actuators . The response in the y direction to driving the y actuators is essentially the same not shown . The 9.4 kHz resonant frequency denoted by the peak amplitude curve and the phase transition in phase curve in is a result of the drumhead mode described above that gets excited by and coupled to x or y axis scanning motion. This frequency however does not get excited in the z direction by the z actuator as shown in . No significant resonance occurs at 9.4 kHz in the z axis as seen at points and in the z axis amplitude and phase curves and in .

To keep this resonance high for a given scanner mass the fundamental resonant frequency can be increased by making flexures and that are very stiff against vertical bending and torsional rotation. Flexures are made extremely stiff against vertical bending. The net effect of these optimizations is to make the vertical stiffness of the tip scanner very high. In the preferred embodiment the vertical stiffness of the tip scanner is designed to be about 10N m. An approximation of the fundamental resonant frequency is given by 

The effective mass of the scanner of this specific embodiment is about 35 grams. Using the formula above would predict a lowest frequency of the order of 8 kHz. In practice the resonant frequency calculation is more complex for distributed mass and spring systems such as the described scanner. As such the described scanner was designed and optimized using a combination of analytical calculations in Matlab computing software by The Math Works in combination with finite element analysis. Using finite element analysis and measurements of the tip scanner prototype the inventors achieved lowest vertical resonant frequencies in excess of 9 kHz when loaded with the objective.

The torsional and bending stiffness of the flexure elements depends on the length height and thickness of the flexure elements. These relationships are well known or at least readily available to those skilled in the art. For instance they are available from various engineering texts or by finite element analysis or by physical measurement. In general terms it is desirable to make the length as short as practical and the height and thickness as large as practical. The practical limit to this optimization is when the bending stiffness in the desired direction of motion becomes so high that it resists the motion of the actuators.

In practice the flexure elements and have been designed to be so stiff that they reduce the range of motion of actuators and as shown in the equation below.

Kis the flexure stiffness. The price of using a high stiffnesses Kis a reduction of the available actuator range X.

To achieve high resonant frequencies of the assembled scanner system the flexures are designed to have a stiffness in the direction of motion of 10 30 of the stiffness of actuators and . This allows an acceptable trade off of the scan range of the actuators to ensure that the combined system has a high lowest fundamental resonant frequency. In one embodiment for example a sacrifice of roughly 20 of the 22 m range of the free actuator range achieves a stiffness sufficient for a resonant frequency of around 9.4 kHz while still achieving a scan size of 18 m.

In a preferred embodiment the actuators and are combinations of sets of two 5 mm 5 mm 13.5 mm piezo stacks and two 5 mm 5 mm 9 mm stacks respectively. The combined stiffness of the actuator sets roughly 5 10N m in both the x and y directions. The total flexure stiffness was chosen to be around 1 10N m or 20 of the actuator stiffness. This large bending stiffness of the flexures also gives a slight increase 10 over the actuator stiffness.

Additionally the flexure materials and thicknesses have been chosen to ensure that the maximum stress in the flexures is well below yield stresses for those materials. In one embodiment the scanner stage is constructed from a 7076 T6 aluminum alloy and design stresses were kept below 10 kpsi or under 14 of the yield stress. Alternative embodiments could also be constructed from invar for superior thermal expansion performance or titanium for example.

It can be seen that the second or innermost flexures form a generally square frame. The barrel is mounted to this frame by four sets of flexures each of which extends perpendicularly from a respective portion of the barrel to respective one of the innermost flexures . Due the arrangement of the piezoelectric elements and the flexures and actuation of the x or y actuator or drives the barrel to move in the x or y direction within the x y plane with virtually no movement in the other direction within that plane or in the z direction.

Referring to A and B the scanner may optionally be outfitted with position sensors for the x y actuator and or the z actuator to provide feedback for maintaining actuator linearity and or compensate for creep and drift. Capacitance optical strain gauge or inductance sensors or any other sensor that produces an output indicative of actuator movement and or position could be used. Any sensor that contacts the actuator should have minimal mass. For instance small strain gauges may be mounted on the z actuator in a Wheatstone bridge configuration. Similar strain gauges may be mounted on the x and y piezoelectric elements and or on the frame formed by the flexures .

Turning now to the objective includes the barrel a lens support and a sleeve located radially between the lens support and the barrel . A gear is rotatably mounted on the outer surface of the upper end of the barrel . It is restrained from radial motion relative to the barrel by an o ring . The barrel sleeve and lens support will now be described in turn.

The barrel is a relatively rigid preferably metal structure affixed to the x y actuator as described above. It takes the form of a hollow cylinder that is open at its top end and is enclosed at its bottom end . It is also stepped at its bottom end. A central aperture covered by a transparent window is formed in the bottom end to permit light to pass between the objective and the probe . The aperture is also counter bored at its bottommost end to form a mounting location for the z actuator and the probe . A socket is formed in the outer wall near the bottom end of the barrel and a vent passage is located beneath the socket .

The sleeve comprises an annular metal ring located in a recess in the outer periphery of the lens support . The sleeve is retained in the recess by a ring at its upper end and by the bottom of the recess at its lower end. This mounting prohibits the sleeve from moving axially relative to the lens support but permits free rotational movement there between. An annular shoulder extends radially from the upper end of the sleeve and is affixed to the gear so that the gear and sleeve rotate as a unit. The outer periphery of the sleeve beneath the shoulder is threaded at and mates with an internally threaded portion of the inner surface of the barrel . The mating threads cause the sleeve to screw into and out of the barrel upon rotation of the gear and sleeve .

The lens support comprises a cylindrical tube having a maximum OD that closely matches the minimum ID of the barrel so as to permit sliding movement of the lens support within the barrel with minimum play or side to side motion therebetween. The lower end of the lens support is stepped to match the step in the barrel . First and second O rings are mounted in the OD of the lens support at its bottom and central portions respectively so as to virtually eliminate play between the lens support and the barrel . The inner peripheral surface of the lens support is stepped at two locations and to provide mounting locations for the first and second lens assemblies and described above. A ball mounted in the socket engages a groove formed in the outer surface of the lens support so as to prevent rotational movement of the lens support relative to the barrel while permitting longitudinal vertical movement therebetween. A flag is mounted on the upper surface of the lens support for engagement with a limit switch or a similar mechanical electrical or optical sensor when the lens support reaches its uppermost or lowest limit of travel.

A bottom chamber is formed between the bottom of the lens support and the inner surface of the bottom portion of the barrel and an annular chamber is formed between the lower portion of the outer periphery of the lens support and the inner periphery of the barrel at a location above the step in the barrel. Another annular chamber is formed between the ID of the gear and the OD of the sleeve above the upper end of the barrel . All three chambers and increase in size as the lens support moves upwardly within the barrel and decrease in size as the lens support moves downwardly within the barrel . Preferably measures are taken to vent air from the chambers and during downward movement of the lens support . In the current embodiment air from the bottom chamber can vent into the annular chamber by flowing past the O ring and air from both chambers and can be vented from the barrel by passing through the vent passage . Air from the upper chamber is vented by flowing between the gear the outer surface of the barrel and past the O ring .

In use when the gear is driven to rotate by the drive in the sleeve is driven to rotate relative to both the lens support and the barrel . This rotation causes the sleeve to screw into or out of the barrel driving the lens support to move upwardly or downwardly relative to the barrel . The ball prevents the lens support from rotating. Air trapped in the chambers and during downward movement of the lens support vents as described above. The range of motion that is available may vary with operator preference and system requirements. Ideally it should be long enough to focus on the cantilever and to also focus on the sample for inspection purposes when the probe is located well above the sample surface. This requires a focus depth of on the order of 1 mm. In the illustrated embodiment this focus depth is achieved by providing the lens support with a stroke of at least 1 mm preferably of 2 mm or more and most preferably about 3 mm with respect to the barrel .

Referring now to the probe and z actuator are mounted on the bottom of the barrel by a flexure extending across the mounting location . This flexure prevents any movement of the z actuator in the x y plane during operation of the z actuator .

The drive of may comprise any device assembly or system that can be used to drive the gear to rotate through a precisely controllable angular range of motion. It is also preferably one that does not in any way constrain the lens support from vertical motion or that interferes with the operation or reduces the range of operation of the x y actuator . A manually operated knob could be used for this purpose. A powered motor is preferred. Referring to the presently preferred drive comprises a stepper motor mounted in the scan head . The stepper motor has an output gear coupled to the drive gear for the objective by an idler gear . In the preferred embodiment the stepper motor gear train and thread pitch are selected to achieve a precision of less than 1 m of lens support vertical motion per motor step. The idler gear and drive gear have more than ample backlash to permit the range of motion provided by operation of the x y actuator and accordingly impose no constraints on operation of the x y actuator .

In use the sensing light beam emitted by the light source is collimated by the collimator shaped by the aperture and then deflected to the objective by the filter as seen in . The light is then focused onto the cantilever by the objective and is reflected back through the objective to the filter . However because the outgoing sensing light beam is traveling along a subtly different path than the incoming light beam due to the effect of its deflection from the inclined cantilever the outgoing beam impinges on the first prism surface after being deflected by the filter rather than being directed back toward the aperture . It is then deflected to the receiver by the second prism surface and the mirror . The resultant data or information derived from it may be viewed stored and or transmitted to a different location.

At the same time the illumination beam from the camera enters through the front window is deflected off the upper mirror and travels to the objective which focuses the illumination beam onto an object typically either the cantilever or the underlying sample surface. The reflected light illumination beam thereafter returns through the objective and is deflected again by the mirror so that it is directed back to the camera . The optical image or information derived from it may be viewed stored and or transmitted to a different location.

The illumination beam mirror as well as the optics including the filter and the prism are preferably movable as a unit in order to pan the instrument in the x y plane. Because it adjusts both the sensing light beam optics and the illumination beam optics this adjustment permits the sensing light beam focal point to be centered or targeted on the cantilever and to be at the center of the optical microscope s field of view. The ability to both target and focus the sensing light beam permits the use of a smaller cantilever potentially further increasing scan rates.

In a preferred embodiment this targeting is made possible by mounting the optics and mirror on a tip tilt stage seen in . The tip tilt stage includes a gimbal in the center of a plate . As best seen in the gimbal is formed from an annular generally spherical surface that bears against a mating socket formed in a support beam in the scan head . Referring simultaneously to and first and second vertical posts extend vertically from the top surface of the plate through the beam and out of the top surface of the scan head . Knobs and are mounted on the upper ends of the posts and . The posts and are threaded into bushings and mounted in the beam as seen in . Rotation of either of the knobs or screws the associated post or into or out of the beam hence driving an associated corner of the plate upwardly or downwardly. This motion results in rotation of gimbal and tilting of the tip tilt stage . The posts and are positioned such that vertical motion of the first post rotates the gimbal in the y z plane for y panning and vertical motion the second post rotates the gimbal in the x z plane for x panning.

As mentioned above this panning permits the sensing light beam to be precisely centered on the cantilever preferably under visual inspection with the aid of cross hairs or the like on a lens or monitor as seen in . When combined with the focusing effect of movable objective a sensing light beam spot having a minor diameter of less than 20 m can be centered on the cantilever . That sensing light beam spot minor diameter is preferably less than 10 m and most preferably less than 5 m. Spot diameters are defined to be the width at which the amplitude of light drops to 1 eof the amplitude at the center of the spot. Provision of this small sensing light beam spot permits the use of a correspondingly small correspondingly high resonant frequency cantilever. Cantilevers having a width of 10 m or less and a length of 35 m or less have a resonance frequency more than 500 KHz. This high bandwidth cantilever in conjunction with the use of the high bandwidth x y actuator assembly permits faster scans than would be possible with larger cantilevers and high mass scanners. In fact the fundamental resonant frequency of the scanner is greater than 2 kHz preferably greater than 5 kHz and even more preferably greater than 9 kHz.

The operation of the instrument is thus far describe will now be explained in conjunction with the flowchart of .

The process of proceeds from START in Block to Block where the operator locates the probe in space and centers to the sensing light beam on the cantilever . This will typically involve a combination of panning in x and y under visual inspection by manipulating the knobs and to center the sensing light beam on the cantilever under visual inspection of the camera which pans with the sensing light beam. It also will typically involve operating the drive to focus the sensing light beam on the cantilever . The illumination beam will simultaneously focus on the cantilever at this time providing visual confirmation of sensing light beam centering and focusing. This focusing is shown schematically in .

Next in Block the drive is engaged to move the focal plane of the objective to a specified preferably fixed reference distance below the cantilever thus positioning the focal plane in a reference plane Fas shown schematically in . The reference distance will ultimately be the initial tip sample spacing at the start of the sample engagement process. It should be large enough to provide tolerance during sample engagement i.e. to assure that the tip does not crash into the sample when it is being moved toward it. It should not be so large however that the obscuration of the cantilever substrate makes it difficult to view an object in the focal plane. A distance of about 1 mm is preferred. Then in Block the scan head is driven downwardly under visual inspection of the optical microscope until the sample comes into focus providing the operator with knowledge that the probe is at the reference distance away from the sample surface. The process then operates the drive to refocus the focal plane on the cantilever as denoted by Block and the scan head is then moved downwardly the reference distance in Block to bring the tip into operative interaction with the sample. As seen in both the sample surface and the cantilever will be in or very near the focal plane of both the sensing light beam and the illumination light beam at this time. If necessary or desired the knob s and or can be actuated to center the reflected sensing light beam on the detector .

Finally in Block a scan can then be performed in any desired fashion. The x y actuator may for instance be controlled to move the probe in a raster scan. The objective moves with the x y scanner at this time and accordingly tracks movement of the probe . The amplitude or phase of probe oscillation is kept constant during scanning using feedback signals to control the z actuator which are generated in response to tip sample interaction. These feedback signals are then collected stored and or used as data to characterize the sample. The resulting information and or information acquired by combining this data with other data can be stored transmitted to another device and or displayed in a suitable monitor.

Because of the small mass of the tip scanner and the high bandwidth small probe the scan can be performed very rapidly while still obtaining high resolution images. In fact sample features on the order of 0.5 Angstrom can be resolved while scanning along lines of 4 5 or 10 m or even longer at rates exceeding 50 Hz preferably exceeding 100 Hz or 200 Hz and even more preferably exceeding 400 Hz. These scan rates can be achieved at a force control bandwidth i.e. a bandwidth of the force control feedback used to control the z actuator of at least 5 kHz and even of 10 kHz to 15 kHz or more in TappingMode operation and 30 kHz or more in contact mode operation. A sample having an RMS roughness of at least 5 m can be scanned along scan lines of at least 4 m with an average tracking score of at least 80 at the rates discussed above. In addition because the tip is scanned rather than the sample sample size is not limited. Samples having a largest dimension of more than 7 mm more than 10 mm and even more than 100 mm can be scanned.

The process as discussed herein as well as other processes falling within the scope of the present invention could be used to scan a wide variety of samples including but not limited to a patterned wafer such as a semiconductor wafer a thin film a polymer a biological sample or a data storage component. Examples of data storage components include a hard disk head a media surface a rowbar a slider and a head wafer.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following claims.

