---

title: Brokering network resources
abstract: A method of brokering a network resource  includes providing a service broker processor  and a service broker registry . On receiving a request at the service broker processor to register a network resource to provide a network service, the service broker processor authenticates the request and authorises registration in the service broker registry. A network client  is updated with the availability of the registered network resource so that on receiving a third party request for the network service, the network client requests allocation of the registered network resource. A bearer path  is set up between the third party  and the network resource  to provide the requested network service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738741&OS=08738741&RS=08738741
owner: Rockstar Consortium US LP
number: 08738741
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121015
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 964 466 filed Oct. 13 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 291 044 entitled BROKERING NETWORK RESOURCES. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 964 466 is assigned to the assignee of the present application and is incorporated by reference into this disclosure as if fully set forth herein. This disclosure hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 964 466.

This invention relates to communication networks and in particular to brokering network resources on a communication network.

When an end user seeks network services or resources such as teleconferencing voicemail and database services from a network operator the network operator creates a bespoke solution by approaching individual vendors and obtaining the required services from different vendors to create a multi vendor solution. The network operator cannot obtain the services from a single source.

That is the network resources are held in closed environments which are proprietary implementations so that the network resources are not available or even visible to other users.

Moreover the same network resources are replicated to provide services to different users for example in different time zones even although a network resource in one time zone may be idle while a corresponding network resource in another time zone is in use and vice versa.

It is desirable to maximise use of network resources and bandwidth to make different services available from a single source and in particular to avoid unnecessary multiplication of network resources.

According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method of brokering a network resource comprising the steps of providing a service broker processor and a service broker registry receiving a request at the service broker processor to register in the service broker registry a network resource for providing a network service the service broker processor authenticating the request and authorising registration to establish an authenticated and authorised network resource the service broker processor registering the authenticated and authorised network resource in the service broker registry to establish a registered network resource the service broker processor updating a network client with the availability of the registered network resource the network client receiving a third party request for the said network service the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource and the network client setting up a bearer path between the third party and the network resource.

Advantageously the method comprises an additional step of providing a resource manager and the resource manager checking a status of the registered network resource before updating the network client with the availability of the registered network resource.

Preferably the method comprises a further step of the service broker processor monitoring availability of the registered network resource.

Conveniently the step of updating a network client includes the network client activating the service provided by the registered network resource.

Advantageously the step of the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource includes the network client determining the availability of the registered network resource.

Advantageously the step of the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource comprises the network client requesting allocation of a plurality of registered network resources to provide the said network service by succession brokering of the plurality of registered network resources.

Preferably the step of the network client setting up a bearer path includes the step of the network client monitoring use of the network resource and billing the third party user.

According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of registering a network resource comprising the steps of providing a service broker processor and a service broker registry receiving a request at the service broker processor to register in the service broker registry a network resource for providing a network service the service broker processor authenticating the request and authorising registrations to establish an authenticated and authorised network resource and the service broker processor registering the authenticated and authorised network resource in the service broker registry to establish a registered network resource.

Advantageously the method comprises an additional step of providing a resource manager and the resource manager checking a status of the registered network resource before updating the network client with the availability of the registered network resource.

Preferably the method comprises a further step of the service broker processor monitoring availability of the registered network resource.

Conveniently the step of updating a network client includes the network client activating the service provided by the network resource.

According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a method of requesting a network service from a network client comprising the steps of providing a service broker processor and a service broker registry containing an authenticated and authorised registered network resource for providing the network service the network client receiving a third party request for the said network service the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource and the network client setting up a bearer path between the third party and the network resource.

Conveniently the step of the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource includes the network client determining the availability of the registered network resource.

Advantageously the step of the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource comprises the network client requesting allocation of a plurality of registered network resources to provide the said network service by succession brokering of the plurality of registered network resources.

Preferably the step of the network client setting up a bearer path includes the step of the network client monitoring use of the network resource and billing the third party user.

According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided computer executable software code stored on a computer readable medium the code being for brokering a network resource comprising the steps of providing a service broker processor and a service broker registry receiving a request at the service broker processor to register in the service broker registry a network resource for providing a network service the service broker processor authenticating the request and authorising registration to establish an authenticated and authorised network resource the service broker processor registering the authenticated and authorised network resource in the service broker registry to establish a registered network resource the service broker processor updating a network client with the availability of the registered network resource the network client receiving a third party request for the said network service the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource and the network client setting up a bearer path between the third party and the network resource.

According to an fifth aspect of the invention there is provided one or more programmed computers for brokering a network resource comprising the steps of providing a service broker processor and a service broker registry receiving a request at the service broker processor to register in the service broker registry a network resource for providing a network service the service broker processor authenticating the request and authorising registration to establish an authenticated and authorised network resource the service broker processor registering the authenticated and authorised network resource in the service broker registry to establish a registered network resource the service broker processor updating a network client with the availability of the registered network resource the network client receiving a third party request for the said network service the network client requesting allocation of the registered network resource and the network client setting up a bearer path between the third party and the network resource.

According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided a network resource broker including a service broker processor and a service broker registry the service broker processor comprising a receiver module adapted for receiving a request to register in the service broker registry a network resource for providing a network service an authenticator module adapted for authenticating the request and to authorise registration to establish an authenticated and authorised network resource a registration module adapted for registering the authenticated and authorised network resource in the service broker registry to establish a registered network resource and an updating module adapted for updating a network client with the availability of the registered network resource such that when the network client receives a third party request for the said network service the network client requests allocation of the registered network resource and sets up a bearer path between the third party and the network resource.

Preferably the network resource broker further comprises a resource manager adapted for checking a status of the registered network resource before updating the network client with the availability of the registered network resource.

Advantageously the service broker processor further comprises a monitor adapted for monitoring availability of the registered network resource.

According to a seventh aspect of the invention there is provided a network resource registration module including a service broker processor and a service broker registry the service broker processor comprising a receiver to receive a request to register in the service broker registry a network resource for providing a network service an authentication module to authenticate the request and authorise registrations to establish an authenticated and authorised network resource and a registration module to register the authenticated and authorised network resource in the service broker registry to establish a registered network resource.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

The multimedia conferencing resource and the agreed facilities are registered step by the multimedia conferencing resource management module in the service broker resource registry associated with the service broker application .

That is a network resource owner registers a network resource with a network and after passing relevant security procedures enters details of the network resource into a network repository. The repository is a logical i.e. virtual entity and can be located anywhere in the network.

The multimedia conferencing resource management module updates step a network client such as a soft switch using a policy rule to advertise the availability of the multimedia conferencing resource . The policy rule may for example define a time slot during which the service is available. That is the network is characterised to ensure optimal operation by interaction with a policy management infrastructure by updating access points on the network to indicate that the registered network resource is available. In the embodiment illustrated in the network client activates step the service by updating a universal translation module .

In this manner the service broker resource registry provides a central registry of network resources available to a network. That is network resource suppliers register network resources with the service broker resource registry to form a collection of network resources which can be offered to third party users.

Referring to a third party user requiring a multimedia conferencing resource requests a conference call from a network client such as soft switch . The soft switch handles step the request by passing the un interpreted request from the third party user to the universal translation module which interprets the request from look up tables as a request for conference call service and passes the interpreted request back to the soft switch . The soft switch determines from the service broker resource registry the availability of a multimedia conferencing resource meeting the third party s requirements for example least cost routing or a particular quality of service. The service broker resource registry monitors use of registered network resources so that at any time the registered network resources which are available are known. That is the interface monitors usage of registered network resources by counting how many of the network resources are in use and allowing no more users access once all the network resources are in use. When a network resource of a particular type is in use a notification is sent to the service broker service registry to decrement the number of network resources of that type available. The number of network resources available from this pool of network resources is increased only as the pool becomes empty. If a multimedia conferencing resource meeting the third party s requirements is available a request for the multimedia conferencing resource is passed step by the soft switch to the multimedia conferencing resource and a transmission link bearer path is set up step between the third party user and the multimedia conferencing resource meeting the third party s requirements. The third party user is then able to make step conference calls through a real time protocol portal of the multimedia conferencing resource . The soft switch monitors the use of the multimedia conferencing resource by the third party in order to create step a bill for use of the network resource by the third party.

In this manner the third party is billed only for actual use of the multimedia conferencing resource and the network resource can be made available to other potential users when not in use by the third party.

More generally a user requesting a network resource accesses a familiar resource management network entity and once the user has been authenticated by security procedures the user can access a network resource. The familiar resource management network entity may be an internet web page which provides access to a network portal giving access to the broker. The request for a network resource may require updating of a service profile associated with the user. That is a list of services to which the user is allowed access is updated by adding the brokered network resource to the list so that the network will accept a request for the brokered service from the user. This updating may be handled by interaction with a software resource adaptation layer. The user can then interact with an interface of the network resource to action the user s request for service.

An information flow of a further embodiment of the invention for providing a menu driven interactive voice recognition service is illustrated in . A network operator application requesting step an interactive voice recognition service sends a FindServiceBroker message to a service broker application including a registry . The service broker application requests step the creation of an interactive voice recognition service specifying the required service attributes. The service broker application selects step an available voice recognition service with the required attributes from the service broker service registry and assigns step a resource policy to the request. The request for service is populated step from the registry with a location of the interactive voice recognition service and a serviceLocationlnfo message is passed to the network operator application . The network operator finds step the interactive voice recognition service using the received serviceLocationlnfo message and the network operator accesses an interface of the interactive voice recognition service and begins using step the network resource by exchanging step commands between the network operator application and the interactive voice recognition service . It will be understood that the invention is not limited to registering any particular types of network resource for providing any particular type of network service. Examples of network resources which may be registered but to which the invention is not limited include network resources providing any telecommunication or information technology service such as teleconferencing multimedia conferencing telephone service call forwarding service voicemail service internet telephone service user validation service billing service gaming service database services and data back up services.

The invention provides an advantage of allowing a network operator to broker network resources to enable a distributed service infrastructure. For example by providing a platform with an applications programming interface to define a broker capability network services are made available to third parties so that a network resource may be allocated on a time basis for example for the working hours in a particular time zone and the third party billed based on usage of the network resource. Outside the working hours of the particular time zone the network resource can be made available to other users. Moreover end users can obtain all their telecommunication and information technology services from a single virtual source. The applications programming interface therefore handles requests for access to the broker finds a service within the broker registry meeting the service requirements of the request informs the user making the request of the location of the required network resource assigns policy information to the request for example time slots in which the service is to be provided and records the usage time by the user of the network resource in order to bill the user for the actual usage.

The applications programming interface may provide succession brokering where for example for a gaming service a first registered network resource from a first vendor provides user validation a second registered network resource from a second vendor provides secure access to a gambling site and a third registered network resource from a third vendor provides consequential billing.

Alternative embodiments of the invention can be implemented as a computer program product for use with a computer system the computer program product being for example a series of computer instructions stored on a tangible data recording medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM or fixed disk or embodied in a computer data signal the signal being transmitted over a tangible medium or a wireless medium for example microwave or infrared. The series of computer instructions can constitute all or part of the functionality described above and can also be stored in any memory device volatile or non volatile such as semiconductor magnetic optical or other memory device.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

