---

title: Sustained data protection
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for sustained data protection. In particular, a data protector may define a set of access levels associated with content within data using a set of access policies (e.g., a partial access level to inventory data for an inventory server, a full access level to inventory data and billing data for a shopping website server, etc.). The data protector may secure (e.g., encrypt) the data to create protected data, so that clients may be unable to access content of the protected data without obtaining access through the data protector. In this way, the data protector may selectively provide clients with access to content within the protected data according to respective access levels for the different clients (e.g., access to inventory data, but not billing data, may be provided to the inventory server by the data protector).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542536&OS=09542536&RS=09542536
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09542536
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120113
---
Many users and companies implement data protection techniques to securely store and or protect access to data. In one example an email service may protect access to emails using a username password technique. In another example a file server may protect access to files using an encryption technique and or an authentication technique. Conventional data protection schemes generally perform access control before data retrieval. For example a request from a client to access protected data may be evaluated by an access control technique to verify the client has permission to access the protected data before the protected data is provided to the client. Upon verification of the client the protected data may be provided to the client in an unprotected form. Unfortunately access control may not be enforced after retrieval of the data from storage.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for sustained data protection are provided herein. That is protection of data may be sustained even after retrieval of the data e.g. after a client retrieves the data from storage . In one example data may be received from a first client requesting protection of the data. For example the first client may request protection of social network data comprising phone numbers status updates recommendations made by users and or personal contact information of users. The first client may be evaluated to determine whether the first client has permission to create protected data from the data and or content therein. For example the first client may be evaluated against a set of write permissions comprising a write permission specifying that the first client has permission to create protected data from phone numbers status updates and recommendations made by users. However the write permission may not grant the first client permission to create protected data from the personal contact information of users. Accordingly the phone numbers status updates and recommendations made by users but not the personal contact information of users may be used to create protected data.

One or more access levels may be specified for content within the data using a set of access policies. For example a full access level may be specified for a client machine logged in by Bill a partial access level to recommendations made by social network friends of Dan may be specified for client applications acting on behalf of Dan a partial access level to phone numbers within a phone book of Emily may be specified for client applications acting on behalf of Emily etc. The data may be secured to create protected data. For example the data may be encrypted and or constrained by a time constraint e.g. the data may be encrypted with an encryption key unavailable to one or more clients . Encrypting the data and or controlling a client s ability to selectively produce protected data e.g. via write permissions may be an indication to clients obtaining the protected data that the integrity of the protected data may be trusted and or may protect against unauthorized production of and or access to content within the protected data. In this way the protected data may be provided to the first client while protection of the data is sustained.

A second client may request access to content within the protected data e.g. the second client may be acting on behalf of Dan . An access level to the protected data for the second client may be determined based upon evaluating the client against a set of access policies. For example a first policy may specify that client applications acting on behalf of Dan may be granted a partial access level to recommendations made by social network friends of Dan within the protected data e.g. one or more recommendations may relate to reviews provided by friends of Dan for local restaurants which may be used by the second client to populate a restaurant suggestion web page with recommendations that may be relevant to Dan . In this way content comprising recommendations made by friends of Dan e.g. but not phone numbers status updates and or other content within the protected data may be provided to the second client according to the access level e.g. access may be selectively provided to one or more portions content of the data . It may be appreciated that the protected data may remain protected after the client is provided with the content. That is data protection may be sustained because access to content within the protected data may continue to be controlled e.g. by a data protector for the second client and or other clients.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Conventional data protection techniques generally verify whether a client has access rights to data before the data is provided to the client. For example an online shopping service server may submit a data query to a storage system to retrieve credit card data of a user. A data retrieval storage layer of the storage system may verify whether the online shopping service server has rights to access the credit card data of the user. Upon verification the storage system may provide the credit card data to the online shopping service server. Once the online shopping service server has obtained the credit card data however further protection of the credit card data may be unavailable e.g. which may be problematic .

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for sustained data protection are provided herein. In one example a data protector e.g. a data protection layer may be configured to create protected data by securing the data e.g. encrypting the data so that one or more clients may not have access to the protected data except through the data protector and or specifying access levels for content within the data using a set of access policies e.g. an online shopping server may have full access to shopping history data and credit card data whereas a shopping history reporting server may merely have access to shopping history data within the protected data e.g. not credit card data . The data protector may be configured to provide a client with access to content within the protected data based upon evaluating the client against a set of access policies to determine an access level e.g. full access partial access to particular content access denied etc. for the client. In this way the data protector may provide content within the protected data to the client according to the access level. It may be appreciated that sustained data protection may be achieved because the protected data may still be protected and or inaccessible to the client and or other clients without access provided by the data protector. In one example the data protector may be implemented within a distributed environment e.g. within a data protection layer implemented across one or more clients of the distributed environment . In this way the protected data may be distributed to one or more clients while maintaining data protection because such clients may be unable to access the protected data without access provided by the data protector.

One embodiment of providing sustained data protection is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At data from a first client requesting protection of the data may be received. In one example an online shopping service server may request shopping data e.g. shopping history data credit card data inventory data employee social security numbers etc. from a data retrieval layer of a storage system. Because the online shopping service server may intend to distribute the shopping data to one or more clients e.g. a shopping history reporting server a billing server an inventory server etc. the online shopping service server may request protection of the shopping data once retrieved from a storage system e.g. from a data protector external to the data retrieval layer . In one example the first client may be evaluated to determine whether the first client has permission to create protected data from the data. It may be appreciated that in one example varying levels of permission may be granted to various clients e.g. a billing server may have permission to protect billing data and customer address data but not employee data while a payroll server may have permission to protect employee data but not billing data and customer address data . For example the first client may be evaluated against a set of write permissions comprising a write permission specifying that the first client has permission to protect shopping history data credit card data and inventory data. However the write permission may not grant the first client permission to create protected data from employee social security numbers. Accordingly the shopping history data credit card data and inventory but not the employee social security numbers may be used to create protected data.

At one or more access levels associated with content within the data may be specified using a set of access policies. For example a first access policy may specify that the shopping history reporting server may have access to shopping history data the billing server may have access to shopping history data and credit card data the inventory server may have access to inventory data the online shopping service server may have access to all shopping data and that other servers may have no access rights. In this way a partial access level to shopping history data may be specified for the shopping history reporting server a partial access level to shopping history data and credit card data may be specified for the billing server a partial access level to inventory data may be specified for the inventory server a full access level may be specified for the online shopping service server and an access denied level may be specified for unknown clients.

At the data may be secured to create protected data. In one example the data may be encrypted using an encryption key unavailable to one or more clients so that the one or more clients may be unable to access content within the protected data e.g. without access provided by a data protector . In another example a time constraint on the validity of the data may be specified e.g. access may be provided by the data protector to a client requesting access at a time corresponding to the time constraint . At the protected data may be provided to the first client e.g. made available to the first client and or merely created on behalf of the first client .

In one example the protected data may be made available to one or more clients e.g. the shopping history reporting server the billing server the inventory server and or other servers . It may be appreciated that such clients may be unable to access content within the protected data without obtaining access through a data protector. Accordingly a second client may request access to content within the protected data. In one example the inventory server may request access to content within the protected data. The partial access level to the inventory data may be determined for the inventory server based upon evaluating the inventory server against the set of access policies. In this way inventory data e.g. but not shopping history data credit card data and or other non inventory data may be provided to the inventory server. In another example the billing server may request access to content within the protected data. The partial access level to the shopping history data and the credit card data may be determined for the billing server based upon evaluating the inventory server against the set of access policies. In this way shopping history data and credit card data e.g. but not inventory data and or other non billing data may be provided to the billing server. In another example full access to content within the protected data may be provided to the online shopping service server based upon evaluating the online shopping service server against the set of access policies. In another example an advertising server may be denied access to content within the protected data based upon evaluating the advertising server against the set of access policies. At the method end.

One embodiment of providing sustained data protection is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At protected data may be received from a client requesting access to content within the protected data. For example an inventory server may be associated with protected shopping data e.g. protected shopping data comprising shopping history data credit card data and inventory data . However the inventory server may be unable to access content within the protected shopping data without access provided by a data protector e.g. a data protection layer external to a data retrieval storage layer that may have initially provided the shopping data from a storage system because the protected shopping data may be encrypted and or secured using a time constraint. Accordingly the protected shopping data may be received e.g. by the data protector from the inventory server requesting access to content within the protected shopping data.

At an access level to the protected data may be determined for the client based upon evaluating the client against a set of access policies. In one example an access policy may specify whether a client machine a client application and or a user e.g. using the client etc. have permission rights to access a portion of the content within the protected data and or whether a time constraint for access is met. The access level may comprise a full access level a partial access level to less than all of the content and or an access denied level. In one example of determining the access level a partial access level to inventory data within the protected shopping data may be determined for the inventory server based upon evaluating the inventory server against an access policy specifying that the inventory server has access rights to inventory information. At content within the protected data may be provided to the client according to the access level. For example the inventory data e.g. but not the shopping history data nor the credit card data within the protected data may be provided to the inventory server according to the partial access level to inventory data. In one example the protected shopping data may be decrypted and or a time constraint may be verified before the inventory data is provided to the inventory server. It may be appreciated that the protected shopping data may remain protected because the protected shopping data may be inaccessible to the inventory server and or other clients without access provided by the data protector e.g. merely providing the inventory data to the inventory server from the protected shopping data does not grant another client access to the inventory data and or other content within the protected shopping data without first obtaining access through the data protector .

It may be appreciated that clients may be provided with various types of access to content within the protected data e.g. a billing server may be provided with access to shopping history data and or credit card data but not inventory data a payment application acting on behalf of user Dan may be provided with access to shopping history data and or credit card data for Dan etc. . In one example the protected data may be received from a second client requesting access to content within the protected data. For example a shopping history reporting server may request access to content within the protected shopping data. A second access level to the protected data may be determined for the second client based upon evaluating the second client against the set of access policies e.g. the second access level for the second client may be the same or different than the access level for the client . For example a partial access level to shopping history data may be determined for the shopping history reporting server based upon evaluating the shopping history reporting server against an access policy specifying that the shopping history reporting server has access rights to shopping history data. Second content within the protected data may be provided to the second client according to the second access level e.g. the second content provided to the second client may be the same or different than the content provided to the client . For example shopping history data may be provided to the shopping history reporting server based upon the partial access level to shopping history data. It may be appreciated that the protected shopping data may remain protected because the protected shopping data may be inaccessible to the shopping history reporting server and or other clients without access provided by the data protector e.g. merely providing the shopping history data to the shopping history reporting server from the protected shopping data does not grant another client access to the shopping history data and or other content within the protected shopping data without first obtaining access through the data protector . At the method ends.

In one example a client may access data storage comprising various data. For example a search result server may access a database comprising social network data because the search result server may be configured to provide search results to users that may incorporate information such as social network data associated with friends of such users e.g. in response to a user searching for restaurants the search result server may provide restaurant search results comprising restaurant recommendations reviews made by friends of the user . The client may retrieve data e.g. social network data comprising recommendations made by users phone numbers saved by users friend lists of users status updates of users photo information of users etc. from the data storage using a data retrieval storage layer .

Accordingly the client may request sustained data protection for the data from the data protector e.g. the data protector may receive the data from the client requesting the protection . The data protector may be configured to define a set of access levels associated with content within the data using a set of access policies . The set of access policies may specify access permissions associated with user identifiers client application identifiers client machine identifiers etc. For example an access policy may specify that a client acting on behalf of Emily may have permission to access social network data of Emily and friends of Emily e.g. recommendations made by friends of Emily status updates by friends of Emily phone numbers within a phone book of Emily Emily s friend list etc. Accordingly a partial access level to social network data associated with Emily and friends of Emily may be defined.

The data protector may be configured to secure the data to create the protected data . For example the data protector may encrypt and or time constrain the data to create the protected data such that clients e.g. client and or other clients not illustrated may be unable to access content within the protected data without obtaining access through the data protector . Moreover prior to securing the data the data protector e.g. and or another component may be configured to evaluate the client against a set of write permission to determine whether the client has permission to protect one or more portions of the data. For example if the client has permission to secure a first portion the data but not a second portion of the data then the first portion of the data may be included within the protected data but the second portion of the data would not be included within the protected data. In this way data protection for the protected data may be sustained because access to content within the protected data may be controlled by the data protector e.g. even after the protected data is obtained by other clients .

In another example the protected data may be received from the second client e.g. an application acting on behalf of a user Emily that may be requesting access to content within the protected data . A second access level to the protected data may be determined for the second client based upon evaluating the second client against the set of access policies. For example the application acting on behalf of the user Emily may be evaluated against an Emily policy to determine a partial access level to content associated with Emily and friends of Emily . In this way second content within the protected data may be provided to the second client . For example social network data for Emily and friends of Emily e.g. but not social network data of other users may be provided to the application acting on behalf of Emily. The data protector may provide sustained data protection for the protected data because clients may be unable to access content within the protected data without obtaining access through the data protector .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1374 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

