---

title: Compilation and presentation of user activity information
abstract: Features are disclosed for generating presentations of information about activities of users of personal devices. Any number of personal devices may transmit information about activities performed by users associated with the personal devices. The information can be transmitted to a management component configured to compile the information, supplement the information with information from third-party sources, and generate presentations. The presentations may be based on templates associated with particular users or groups of users. The presentations may include, but are not limited to, visual, audio, and textual content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342209&OS=09342209&RS=09342209
owner: Audible, Inc.
number: 09342209
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120823
---
A personal device such as a mobile phone media player or tablet computer can be carried by and used by a person to for example communicate with others consume content search for information and the like. Personal devices while often mobile and efficient may have limited functionality and content creation and consumption capabilities including small or low resolution displays low quality speakers and limited computing power. Purpose built computing and media devices such as desktop computers server computers televisions and set top boxes provide powerful content creation capabilities or rich content consumption experiences. Some devices such as those equipped with large high definition displays high fidelity audio processing equipment and speakers and large amounts of computing power may provide both content creation and consumption capabilities that are superior to those of a mobile personal device.

Social networking web sites and other systems may track user activities and present information about the activities to other users such as the user s social network contacts. Some systems may present information to only some portion of a user s contacts. If a user or a group of users wishes to share a selection of information about their recent activities with each other including activities performed outside of a social network context and also augment the activity information with supplemental or explanatory information or exhibits a user can manually create a summary or other presentation. For example a user can manually search for identify and collect information from one or more personal devices or services manually create a presentation or other summary of the information and then manually provide the prepared presentation for display to the group of users on a suitable media device.

Generally described the present disclosure relates to the compilation of user data from a number of different personal devices into a presentation for display to a group of users of the personal devices. For example aspects of the present disclosure relate to the tracking by a personal device of activities performed by a user of the personal device such as communications travel content consumption and the like. Data regarding the activities can be transferred from any number of personal devices to a management component which can combine the data into a multimedia presentation summarizing or otherwise associated with the activities of the users.

In some embodiments supplemental data may be obtained in order to augment the presentation. For example images maps videos and the like may be obtained from web services or other network accessible systems. The supplemental content may aid in explaining or otherwise presenting the user activities. The supplemental data may also be independent of the user data received from the personal devices. Thus supplemental data may include data not obtained from the user s personal devices. For example the supplemental data may be data received from a social networking service with which a user has an account. The social networking data such as friends photos comments and other social interactions may be included in the generated presentation.

Additional aspects of the disclosure relate to the grouping of users according to predetermined associations dynamically determined common interests real world relationships and other connections or similarities. Presentations generated for each group may be different based on the interests and relationships of the group. Templates may be used to predetermine which pieces of user data will be emphasized and which pieces will not be used in a particular presentation regardless of any use of the data in other presentation templates associated with other user groups.

Although aspects of the embodiments described in the disclosure will focus for the purpose of illustration on a management component receiving user data from personal devices retrieving supplemental data from remote services and generating presentations for playback on media devices one skilled in the art will appreciate that the techniques disclosed herein may be applied to any number of software processes or applications. Further although various aspects of the disclosure will be described with regard to illustrative examples and embodiments one skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosed embodiments and examples should not be construed as limiting.

Various aspects of the disclosure will now be described with regard to certain examples and embodiments which are intended to illustrate but not limit the disclosure. With reference to an illustrative example a personal device such as a mobile phone may be carried by a user thought the day or a portion of the day. The device may be used to communicate with others access and consume content track personal schedules and so on. Many such devices include capabilities for determining and tracking the location and movement of the device such as a global positioning system GPS antenna and associated software and for connecting with other devices such as via wireless communication links. The device may include sensors such as cameras and microphones for capturing still images videos or audible sound e.g. voices music etc. . The device may include sensors for measuring the attitude orientation and movement of the device. For example the device may include accelerometers gyroscopes and geomagnetic sensors. The device may be equipped to receive and send text or multimedia messages such as SMS and MMS messages.

As multiple users of such personal devices come together they may wish to exchange information about activities they have undertaken that day since they last met or during some other period of time. In order to facilitate such an exchange multimedia presentations can be automatically generated from user data stored within the personal devices so that the users can for example view summaries of each other s activities. Groups of users may have certain relationships or common interests which may be considered when generating a presentation. For example the presentation that is generated for a family may be different from a presentation that is generated for a group of adolescent friends which may be different from a presentation that is generated for a members of a club or organization and so on. The presentation that is generated may include but is not limited to visual elements such as pictures animations and informational graphics audio elements such as music voice recordings and sound effects and textual elements such as communication transcriptions reviews written content and the like. Moreover the presentation may be tailored to the particular media device on which it will be shown or otherwise executed. For example presentations for display on a high definition television may be created differently than presentations targeted to hand held devices such as tablet computers.

Users may initiate a connection with a management component such as a computer or smart television in order to transfer information from their personal devices to the management component. The connection and transfer may be initiated by users individually or as a group or in some cases may happen automatically when a user enters a communication range of the management component. User data transferred to the management component can include information about communications that a user has initiated or received on the personal device such as telephone call logs email histories text messages multimedia messages and the like. User data may also include personal schedules and travel routes and information about content that user has consumed on the personal device. User data may include data from one or more of the device s sensors. Virtually any data regarding user activities performed with a personal device may be recorded and transferred to the management component.

Optionally in response to receiving the user data the management component can retrieve additional data from third party sources to supplement the user data. For example some users may participate in social networks. Information regarding a user s social network communications and activities may not be available on the personal device for transfer to the management component particularly in cases where the user has interacted with the social networking system using a different device. In such cases the management component can be provided with access to a user s social networking profile and the management component can access the social networking system via an application programming interface API to retrieve additional data about the user s activities for inclusion in the presentation where appropriate. For example the social networking system may have videos or photographs posted by the user and or in which the user is tagged. The social networking system may also include postings or other information regarding which restaurants the user has eaten at and when where the user has shopped and when and so on. The social networking system may also store information posted by the user or by other users e.g. the user s friends indicating who accompanied the user or participated with the user with respect to a given activity. In some cases third party services may transmit data via an API to the management component or a system associated with the management component for inclusion in presentations. Supplemental data may also be retrieved to augment the user data. For example information about a location visited by a user may be retrieved and included in the presentation. The information can include maps pictures reviews and the like.

Prior to describing embodiments of the multimedia presentation generation process in detail an example network environment in which the process may be implemented will be described. illustrates a network environment including a network such as local area network LAN a media device any number of personal devices and a management component . The LAN may include one or more switches routers cable modems ADSL modems etc. The management component may communicate with any number of remote services via the LAN and another communication network . The communication network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the communication network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. For example the communication network may be a publicly accessible network of linked networks possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In some embodiments the LAN or the communication network may be a private or semi private network such as a corporate or university intranet. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The personal devices can correspond to a wide variety of electronic devices. In some embodiments the personal devices are mobile devices that include one or more processors and a memory which may contain software applications executed by the processors. The personal devices may include speakers and or displays for presenting content. In addition the personal devices may be configured with one or more wireless network antennae to facilitate wireless communication with other devices and a global positioning system GPS antenna WiFi antenna and or cellular antenna so that the personal devices may be aware of their geographical locations. The personal devices may also be configured to determine their location via cell tower and or WiFi signal triangulation cell ID information WiFi location information near field connections and otherwise. Illustratively the personal devices may include mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs mobile gaming devices media players electronic book readers tablet computers laptop computers and the like. The software of the personal devices may include components for establishing communications over networks . In addition the software applications may include communication applications which facilitate voice text video and other types of communication as described in detail below with respect to .

The LAN may connect the media device personal devices and a management component via a wireless communication link such as a WiFi link. In such cases the LAN may be or include a wireless local area network WLAN . Additionally the LAN may connect to the network facilitating communication between various devices and components communicating over the LAN and the devices and components connected to the network such as the remote services . In some embodiments the components networked to the LAN may communicate over a combination of wired and wireless communication links. For example the LAN may be networked to a management component which may be a single management component or may include multiple management components in communication with one or more media devices via a wired communication link such as an Ethernet connection. Due to the mobile nature and wireless connectivity of many personal devices the LAN may network any number of personal devices and the number may change over time or from minute to minute. Personal devices may communicate with the management component via a WiFi connection.

The media device can correspond to a wide variety of electronic devices. In some embodiments the media device can include audio or visual output components such as speakers or video screens. For example the media device may be a television digital video recorder DVRs set top box desktop computer server computer and the like. In some embodiments a media device may include one or more processors and a storage or memory which may contain software applications executed by the processors. The software of the media device may include components for establishing communications over the LAN and network . In addition the software applications may include multimedia applications which play or otherwise execute audiovisual programs such as movies television shows streaming video video games multimedia presentations and the like. The software applications and hardware components of the media device may also perform the functions of the management component as described herein. In some embodiments the media device may correspond to a personal device . Accordingly a user may contribute to a presentation and consume the presentation using the same personal device .

The management component illustrated in may correspond to a computing device configured to receive data from personal devices and remote services prepare multimedia presentations based on the data and output the multimedia presentations to the media device . For example the management component may include one or more processors and a computer storage or memory which contains software applications executed by the processors to provide the services described herein. In some embodiments the management component may be coupled to or integrated into a media device as described above. For example a smart television or set top box may include a combination of software and hardware which provide the services of the management component .

The remote service illustrated in may correspond to a logical association of one or more computing devices configured to host information and respond to requests for information from computing devices via the network . For example a remote service may include one or more servers hosting content an information such as a web page or a web service. Remote services may also include a remote storage provider of database services and other storage services a remote provider of computing capacity and the like. The content and other information hosted or provided by a remote service may be used to supplement information received by the management component from the personal devices . For example maps news reviews and the like may be retrieved from one or more remote services to supplement information received from the personal devices during the creation of a multimedia presentation. In some embodiments a remote service incorporates the functionality of the management component so that a user does not have to employ user equipment to host the management component . In further embodiments the remote service and or the management component are provided by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

In some embodiments the network environment may include additional or fewer components that those illustrated in . For example the network environment may include additional LANs which personal devices may or may not join in addition to the LAN illustrated in . In another example the network environment may not include a remote service . In such a case the services provided by the remote service may instead be provided by one or more components connected to the LAN may be provided by the management component or may not be provided.

Turning now to an illustrative personal device including several modules and data stores will be described. As described above a personal device may be a portable electronic device carried by a user throughout the day. The user may interact with the personal device to communicate with other users access content execute applications track personal appointments and the like. Information regarding these and other activities performed by the user may be recorded by the personal device and stored within an integrated data store. Optionally information may be transmitted to a remote service for storage. When one or more users wish to have a multimedia presentation generated from the user information tracked by their respective personal devices the users may connect the personal devices to a management component and transfer some or all of their user data. Information about the users activities with the personal device such as appointments work or school related functions lunch locations exercise habits extracurricular and other activities and the like may be used by a management component as described herein to generate a presentation of the user s life over a period of time.

The illustrative personal device of includes a communication module a location tracking module a personal information management PIM module a content access module and a user data store . In some embodiments a personal device may have additional or fewer components than those illustrated in . For example a personal device may include content creation modules such as software applications for word processing or image editing. Optionally a personal device may not include a location tracking module . Other combinations are possible.

The communication module may provide various communication services to the user of the personal device . For example if the personal device is a mobile phone or some other device configured to communicate via wireless telephone networks such as code division multiple access CDMA and global system for mobile communications GSM networks the communication module can provide telephony and text messaging services. In some embodiments the communication module may facilitate the transfer of multimedia messages such as picture or video messages which may or may not include voice or text. Other types of communications may include email instant message video calling and the like.

Data regarding the various communications transmitted or received by the communication module or some other module of the personal device may be stored in the user data store . For example if a user makes a phone call to another user information such as the identity of the other user the date time and length of the phone call the location of the user during the call the location of the other party to the call and or other information may be stored in the user data store for later transmission to the management component . In another example the contents of an email or text message may be stored in the user data store for later transmission to the management component . The management component may process the contents of the communication for keywords and the like as described in detail below so that the management component may retrieve applicable supplemental information to include in a multimedia presentation.

The location tracking module may track the location of the personal device and by extension the user of the personal device . For example the personal device may include a global positioning system GPS antenna to aid in determining the geographic location of the personal device and any movements over a period of time. The user s location may also be tracked using cell phone tower triangulation information WiFi information or otherwise. Information about speed and direction may be tracked to determine for example whether the user is walking or driving. Other techniques may be used to track the location of the personal device such as cellular triangulation geolocation based on network connectivity or manual user entry of location. The information tracked by the location tracking module may be stored in the user data store . Additionally the location information may be linked to information from other modules of the personal device . For example the location of the personal device may be recorded when the user initiates a phone call or accesses content.

The PIM module may include various organizational features such as a schedule or planner an appointment calendar a contact or address book a to do or task list and others. Such features are often available in for example mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptop computers and tablet computers. For example a schedule or planner may be included in a mobile phone and may automatically synchronize with a schedule on a desktop computer a corporate server etc. The information used and recorded by the PIM may also be tracked for transfer to and use by the management component . For example the information may be mirrored in the user data store or transferred directly from the PIM module . A user s appointment and completed tasks may be used by the management component to present an overview of the user s day and may be supplemented with information from a remote service such as a map of the location of a meeting a menu of a restaurant at which the user had lunch or a picture associated with a completed task.

The content access module may provide the user of the personal device with access to network content such as web pages streaming audio and video and other types of network accessible and other content. For example the content access module may provide a web browser application for viewing web pages and conducting searches. Information about the viewed web pages and searches may typically be saved in a history file or database associated with the browser. Such data may also be stored in the user data store for transmission to the management component or may be transmitted directly to the management component from the history of the web browser. Information may be linked to other information. Such links may be useful to the management component when assembling a multimedia presentation. For example the user of the personal device may access a social networking web site establish links with other users of the social networking web site exchange information and content such as pictures and videos with the linked users and the like. Information about where a user is when performing such tasks may be tracked and used to present an overview of what a user did with at a particular geographic location.

The content access module may include additional software or provide additional services. For example a user may watch videos stored on the personal device or streamed over a network connection listen to music view images that were taken with a camera integrated into the personal device and the like. Each of these activities may provide additional insight into the user s day or other applicable time period and therefore may be candidates for transfer to a management component for inclusion in a multimedia presentation.

Turning now to an illustrative management component including several modules and data stores will be described. As described above a management component may include one or more computing devices configured to execute software modules to provide the services of the management component . For example a management component may include one or more processors a computer readable memory such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory a hard drive and the like. Software programs may be stored in the memory and may cause the processors to execute routines for receiving data from any number of personal devices and remote services and for assembling a multimedia presentation for display on a media device based on the received data and other data such as templates user group definitions and the like. Data received from personal devices can include appointment and location information communications and content access information. The management component can retrieve supplemental information such as a map and a menu corresponding to a lunch appointment and compile the information into a series of slides or informational graphics for display to a group of users.

The illustrative management component of includes a user data retrieval module a supplemental data retrieval module a presentation generation module a user group data store and a template data store . In some embodiments the management component may include additional or fewer components than those illustrated in . For example a management component may not include a supplemental data retrieval module but rather a supplemental data store. Such a configuration may occur in embodiments in which the management component does not retrieve supplemental data from a remote service but rather keeps or otherwise has access to a repository of supplementation information to use when generating multimedia presentations.

The user data retrieval module can retrieve data from any number of personal devices . For example if several users of personal devices wish to initiate the process of generating a multimedia presentation based on their own user data the users may connect their personal devices via a wireless network connection or some other connection with the management component . The user data may then be automatically uploaded from the personal devices e.g. from the user data store to the user data retrieval module of the management component .

As described below with respect to the management component may consult the user group data to determine which user group includes each of the users or personal devices from which user data has been retrieved. The user groups may be defined in the user group data through a series of relational database records specifying which users or personal devices belong to which group or groups. Optionally the user groups may be defined by common user characteristics such as users who visit a common location eat at a common restaurant share a common work schedule browse the similar content have identified each other as friends on a social network site etc. Records associating such characteristics to one or more groups may be stored in the user group data . The records in the user group data may be entered and maintained by one or more users may be determined over a period of time via a computer learning algorithm may be a static set of user groups or some combination thereof.

The supplemental data retrieval module may be employed by the management component to retrieve supplemental data from remote services . For example during the process of generating a multimedia presentation the management component may determine that an image review map graphic audio recording or some other content or information may be required by a particular presentation template or otherwise enhance a presentation generally or one based on a particular template. The supplemental data retrieval module may connect with a remote service via a network connection such as the networks illustrated in . The supplemental data retrieval module may include or otherwise have access to a listing of remote services from which to retrieve particular types of supplemental data. For example the supplemental data retrieval module may be used to retrieve a map of a location associated with an appointment or other activity of a user. The supplemental data retrieval module may have access to a network address of a remote service which provides such map and can contact the remote service to retrieve the map. The map can then be used by the presentation generation module during generation of the multimedia presentation.

The presentation generation module can compile the data received via the user data retrieval module from the personal devices the data received via the supplemental data retrieval module from the remote services and one or more templates to generate a multimedia presentation. A template may be associated with each user group. For example a group of family members may be associated with a template which provides layout or other configuration details regarding presenting the schedule of each user while a group of friends may be associated with a different template which provides layout other configuration details regarding presenting the content that each user has accessed. The templates may be predefined within the management component may be created by a user or administrator of the management component may be dynamically determined based on attributes of the group or some combination thereof. Templates may include detailed instructions for assembling a multimedia presentation such as a predefined slide show with spaces to insert user data and supplemental data. In some embodiments templates may be more flexible such as a record or group of records containing guidelines for assembling a multimedia presentation based on any number of static or dynamic factors.

In some embodiments templates may also or alternatively be associated with individual users. A user may select create or otherwise be associated with a first template for sharing information with friends a second template for sharing information with family members and so on. Illustratively the first template that the user is associated with may be based on a generic template for sharing information with friends. The information that a user exposes through use of first template may be similar to what other friends expose or it may customized to include some data and exclude other data.

In some cases users may be automatically grouped together into sub groups such as based on predetermined relationships e.g. married couples colleagues teammates . In such cases information about each member of the subgroup may be presented together optionally through the user of a separate template. For example a presentation may be generated based on data received from a group of participating users with each user s information presented separately. At some subsequent time a spouse of a participating user may arrive and wish to contribute to the presentation. The spouse s information may be combine with the previously participating user and in some cases may involve the use of a different template.

The routine begins at block . The routine may be a background process that executes continuously on a management component a media device or some other entity within a LAN . Alternatively the routine may be instantiated whenever one or more personal devices connect to the management component optionally requesting initiation of the presentation generation process. When the routine is initiated the executable program instructions can be loaded into memory such as RAM and executed by one or more processors of computing system. In some embodiments the computing system may include multiple computing devices such as servers and the routine may be executed by multiple servers serially or in parallel.

At block the management component or other system executing the routine can obtain user data from the various personal devices in communication with the management component or otherwise participating in the routine . As described above the data may be transferred from a user data store or some other component of each personal device . illustrates one embodiment of the generation of a multimedia presentation . As shown in and described in detail herein a management component can receive user data from multiple personal devices . The user data can include communication records voice text and or multimedia calendar entries e.g. that identifies an event time location and or participants geolocation information which may be continuous periodic and or event triggered geolocation information and the like.

At block the management component can determine whether the various personal devices belong to any user groups and if any user group includes each of the participating personal devices participating. As described above the various personal devices or users thereof may be assigned to one or more user groups in the user group data store of the management component . One implication of a user group assignment may be an association with a particular template to serve as the basis of a presentation. Optionally one or more of the personal devices may specify a particular user group or a particular template to use for the current execution of the routine .

At block the management component can access the template associated with the current user group or otherwise associated with the current execution of the routine . The template may define visual layouts for the presentation e.g. color font size transition which user data to use in each portion of the presentation e.g. all exercise related data in one portion all travel related information in a second portion which supplemental information to retrieve e.g. maps restaurant reviews social network data and the like.

At block the management component can retrieve supplemental information for the template or templates used during the current execution of the routine and the user data provided by the personal devices . As shown in and described in detail herein a management component can retrieve supplemental information from multiple remote services . The supplemental data can include for example maps of locations visited or routes travelled reviews of locations visited or activities performed menus of restaurants visited and other supplemental information associated with the activities of the users.

In some embodiments the supplemental information may not be directly associated with user data received from the personal device but rather can be additional user data that is received from a remote service . For example a user may exercise such as by walking or running with no personal device or with a personal device other than the personal device which has transmitted data to the management component e.g. a GPS watch . Data regarding the exercise such as a running route or a time period may be saved to a remote service by the user or another personal device. In another example social network data may not be stored on a personal device . The management component can access a remote service in order to retrieve information about the social network activities of a user. The user may provide a password or otherwise grant the management component access to some or all of the user s social network profile information. The management component can utilize APIs provided by the social network hosting service in order to retrieve the data for possible inclusion in the presentation. Such supplemental data may also be used by the management component in determining which group or groups the users belong to. For example interest information stored on a social network linked friends and other information can be obtained by the management component through the APIs. Optionally the management component or some associated component may expose an API for remote services and other entities to submit information to the management component .

At block the management component can assemble the presentation and display it on a media device . The presentation can be based on a template or on some other configuration or layout information. For example the template may have been previously defined by a user and stored by the management component or other data store. The presentation assembly may be automatically performed by the management component based on the predefined template without requiring that the user manually provide input during the assembly process. As shown in a presentation can include images and informational graphics. For example one personal device may have a detailed daily schedule including a number of appointments and information about a number of phone calls texts and other communications. Additionally the personal device may have tracked information about the location of the personal device and any changes thereto such as driving or walking routes. Supplemental maps reviews and other content may be retrieved from remote services . Such user data and supplementation information can be combined for display based on a template as determined in block above. A template may be assigned to the user or group of users currently participating in the process of generating a presentation . The template may include layout and formatting instructions for displaying the daily schedule combined with other information about the user s day along with supplemental content and informational graphics to augment the user data. Any number of different layouts and configurations for the presentation are possible. In some embodiments information from more than one user may be combined into a single informational graphic or separate graphics or other portions of the presentation may be reserved for each user. In some embodiments the presentation may include videos animation audio recordings sound effects and the like instead of or in addition to schedule and informational graphics. The presentation can be saved as a file for transfer a media device such as a TV for display. In some embodiments the presentation can be streamed to the media device rather than transferred as a file.

At decision block the management component can determine whether to monitor or otherwise remain available for connections from additional personal devices . If the management component is to remain available for connections the routine can proceed to decision block . Otherwise the routine can proceed to block where execution terminates.

For example a group of users may connect their personal devices to a management component transmit user data and view a presentation based on that user data. Subsequently a new user may wish to transmit user data to add to the presentation. In such a case execution of the routine can return to block where user data from the new personal device is transmitted to the management component . From there execution of the routine can proceed as described above and an updated presentation can be generated and displayed.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the processes or algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described operations or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithm . Moreover in certain embodiments operations or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules routines and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The steps of a method process routine or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it can be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As can be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of certain inventions disclosed herein is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

