---

title: Content management for wireless digital media frames
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided for management of content(s) directed to a wireless digital media frame (WDMF). Management is facilitated by a service provided by a mobile network platform. A service subscription allows a subscriber to establish femto cell coverage in a location that host a subscribed WDMF(s); determine content(s) delivery preferences; and extend the service to a group of auxiliary subscribers. Various sources of content such as a mobile station, a non-mobile device, or a content server associated with a service platform (e.g., an internet service provider) can deliver content(s) and signaling. Integrity of content(s) and signaling is provided through access protocol(s) that exploits credentials associated with a source of content. Content(s) are managed through a content interface that conveys available content(s) in a source of content and an intended WDMF. Various alarm(s) can be delivered to a WDMF as a part of the content management service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595306&OS=08595306&RS=08595306
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08595306
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121010
---
This application is a continuation application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 325 619 entitled CONTENT MANAGEMENT FOR WIRELESS DIGITAL MEDIA FRAMES and filed on Dec. 1 2008. The entirety of this application is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject innovation relates to wireless communications and more particularly to management of multimedia content s directed to wireless digital media frame s .

As a trend towards paperless graphic media continues to develop digital picture frames gain preponderance among consumers especially in view of the relatively low adoption threshold of digital picture frames which is driven at least in part by their ease of operation and relative low cost. To utilize a digital picture frame and consume their digital pictures consumers need not be technologically savvy but rather possess basic knowledge of computer operation and access to a computer e.g. a personal computer either tethered or portable a computer kiosk or the like or have an understanding of operation of device s such as a digital camera that can be interfaced via a wired or wireless link with a digital picture frame. Utilization of a digital picture frame is based upon uploads of digital pictures from an external memory element to a memory element that resides in the digital picture frame. The external memory element is commonly a storage medium of a computer or device with digital pictures stored thereon. It is to be noted that the computer or device also can exploit a variety of removable external memory elements e.g. a memory stick a compact flash card a secure digital card or the like as source s of contents for the digital picture frame.

It is to be noted that uploading pictures from removable external memory elements facilitates picture exchange among end users of a digital picture frame and the sources of the pictures. Such exchange or dissemination of content directed to a digital picture frame can be enhanced through a networked content source. As an example one or more of conventional digital picture frames can connect to the internet through a phone line to download pictures and other digital information for display. Nonetheless utilization of networked sources of content for a digital media frame demands an additional layer of expertise e.g. knowledge of how to access the networked sources which can mitigate ease of operation of a digital picture frame especially for the segment of consumers with a limited understanding or ability to manage networked resources. Even though remote content from a networked source can be conveyed to a digital picture frame which may facilitate retaining the ease of operation from an end user perspective conventional dissemination of content for picture digital frames through networked resources is typically limited and fails to accompany the pervasiveness and growth of both digital picture frame and networked resources markets.

The subject innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

As used in this application the terms component system platform service framework interface node and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station access terminal terminal mobile handset handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point base station Node B evolved Node B home Node B HNB and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming data or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data e.g. content and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inferences based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As it is discussed in greater detail below the subject innovation providers system s and method s for management of content s directed to a wireless digital media frame WDMF . Management is facilitated by a service provided by a mobile network platform. A service subscription allows a subscriber to establish femto cell coverage in a location that host a subscribed WDMF s determine content s delivery preferences and extend the service to a group of auxiliary subscribers. Various sources of content such as a mobile station a non mobile device or a content server associated with a service platform e.g. an internet service provider can deliver content s and signaling. Integrity of content s and signaling is provided through access protocol s that exploits credentials associated with a source of content. Content s are managed through a content interface that conveys available content s in a source of content and an intended WDMF. Various alarm s can be delivered to a WDMF as a part of the content management service.

The subject innovation provides system s and method s for management of content s directed to a wireless digital media frame WDMF . Management is facilitated by a service provided by a mobile network platform. A service subscription allows a subscriber to establish femto cell coverage in a location that host a subscribed WDMF s determine content s delivery preferences and extend the service to a group of auxiliary subscribers. Various sources of content such as a mobile station a non mobile device or a content server associated with a service platform e.g. an internet service provider can deliver content s and signaling. Non mobile devices can be stationary e.g. a personal computer or digital video recorder and are provisioned through a non mobile network platform. Content server s generally convey web based content s . Integrity of content s and signaling is provided through access protocol s that exploits credentials associated with a source of content. In addition integrity of content s is further facilitated through approval cycles for auxiliary subscribers and filtering of received content s . Content s are managed through a content interface that conveys available content s in a source of content and an intended WDMF. Moreover various alarm s can be delivered to a WDMF as a part of the content management service. Alarms can be generated by the content management service based upon public emergency information or subscriber based configuration.

Referring to the drawings is a block diagram of an illustrative communications environment that facilitates multimedia content s management in wireless digital media frames WDMFs in accordance with aspects described herein. In an aspect WDMF can consume e.g. receive deliver store render or play content s in various multimedia formats which include but not limited to Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG Tagged Image File Format TIFF Portable Network Graphics PNG Graphics Interchange Format GIF Scalable Vector Graphics SVG Encapsulated Postscript EPS Portable Data Format PDF or almost any or any digital image format for pictures Moving Picture Experts Group Phase 4 MPEG 4 recommendation Rec. 601 Windows Media Video WMV or substantially any other video format for vide clips MPEG 1 audio layer 3 MP3 files for sound delivery and so forth. Content s can be retained in a memory that can be native to the WDMF or external yet linked to the WDMF through a link component not shown . Additionally WDMF can receive one or more command that facilitate operation and consumption of received or retained content s . In an aspect content s can be received through backhaul link . In addition a WDMF B can utilize various technologies for terrestrial wireless communication which include at least one of an advanced second generation 2.5G telecommunication technology such as Enhanced Data Rate for Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Evolution EDGE a third generation technology 3G like Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA or Ultra broadband Mobility UMB advanced 3G such as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax or a fourth generation 4G technology such as for example Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced. Moreover a WDMF can consume satellite based traffic such as data originated from GPS GLONNAS or Galileo systems conveyed through a deep space link not shown . In an aspect WDMF can operate as an always on device with power supplied via a conventional power grid. Alternatively or in addition a rechargeable battery can supply power. WDMF can exploit conventional mechanism s to mitigate power consumption or preserve battery lifetime. Moreover WDMF can be addressed through credential s within a native UICC card or through an internet protocol IP addressing scheme.

Illustrative communications environment includes macro cells and femto cells that provide wireless coverage and a confined area e.g. residential commercial industrial building hospital or the like with non mobile coverage WDMFs are deployed within femto cell coverage areas and served through femto access points APs . Coverage through macro cells and femto cells can be operated through a single service provider network . In communication wireless environment each macro cell is served by a base station . It should be appreciated that macro cells are illustrated as hexagons however macro cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by the deployment or floor plan geographic areas to be covered e.g. a metropolitan statistical area MSA or rural statistical area RSA and so on. Moreover macro cells also can be sectorized even though such aspect is not illustrated. Macro coverage is generally intended to serve mobile wireless devices like UE in outdoors locations. An over the air wireless link provides such coverage the wireless link comprises a downlink DL and an uplink UL and exploits one or more predetermined bands of the radio frequency RF spectrum. User equipment can be substantially any user equipment that includes a system identity module SIM card or a universal integrated circuit card UICC that provides with a SIM or universal subscriber identity module USIM . Moreover UE can be a mobile phone that can exploit at least one of an advanced second generation 2.5G telecommunication technology such as Enhanced Data Rate for Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Evolution EDGE a third generation technology 3G like Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA or Ultra broadband Mobility UMB advanced 3G such as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax or a fourth generation 4G technology such as for example Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced. Additionally UE A can also exploit WiFi for communication.

It is noted that a base station its associated electronics e.g. circuitry or components and over the air coverage through wireless link s operated in accordance to the base station specific telecommunication protocols e.g. modulation and multiplexing schemes modes of signal processing for data stream delivery and control form a radio access network RAN . Coverage provided through RAN can exploit radio frequency RF bands that are licensed e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth or unlicensed e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition base station communicates via backhaul link s with a macro network platform which in cellular wireless technologies e.g. GSM EDGE 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMTS or UMB represents a core network. In an aspect macro network platform controls a set of base stations that serve either respective cells or a number of sectors within such cells. Macro network platform also communicates with other base stations not shown that serve other cells not shown . Backhaul link s can include wired link components like T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . Moreover macro network platform includes components e.g. nodes gateways and interfaces that facilitate packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP asynchronous transfer mode ATM cell relay protocol and circuit switched CS traffic and control generation for networked cellular wireless communication through multiple deployed base stations.

Additionally in illustrative communication environment within one or more macro coverage cells a set of femto cells served by respective femto access points APs can be deployed. A femto cell typically covers an area that includes confined area which is determined at least in part by transmission power allocated to femto AP path loss shadowing and so forth. While coverage area and confined area typically coincide it should be appreciated that in certain deployment scenarios coverage area can include an outdoor portion e.g. a parking lot a patio deck a recreation area such as a swimming pool and nearby space while area spans an enclosed living space. Confined coverage area is generally associated with an indoor space such as a building either residential e.g. a house a condominium an apartment complex or business e.g. a library a hospital a retail store which encompasses a setting that can span about 5000 sq. ft.

Femto AP typically serves a few for example 1 5 wireless devices which in the subject innovation include a WDMF within confined coverage area via a wireless link which encompasses a downlink and an uplink. Additionally femto AP can exploit RF bands that are licensed e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth or unlicensed e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . Femto network platform can control such service including registration and provisioning of femto APs . Service control or management is facilitated by backhaul link s that connect deployed femto APs with femto network platform . Backhaul pipe s is substantially the same as backhaul link s . In an aspect of the subject innovation part of the control effected by femto AP includes measurements of radio link conditions and other performance metrics. Such measurements can be made available to femto network platform . In another aspect femto AP has a LAC location area code and RAC routing area code that is different from the underlying macro network. These LAC and RAC are used to identify subscriber station location for a variety of reasons most notably to direct incoming voice and data traffic to appropriate paging transmitters and emergency calls as well. Additionally in an aspect of the subject innovation LAC and RAC facilitate delivery of emergency broadcast messages to WDMF covered through a femto AP .

As part of femto coverage packet communication s e.g. voice and data traffic and signaling as well is typically paged routed through a backhaul broadband wired network backbone e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL a coaxial cable . . . . To this end femto AP is typically connected to the broadband backhaul network backbone via a broadband modem not shown . Through backhaul pipe a femto AP can handle substantially any quality of service QoS for heterogeneous packetized traffic e.g. voice packet flows to a covered mobile and data packet stream s directed to a WDMF . In an aspect of the subject innovation femto AP can display status indicators for power active broadband DSL connection and connection to femto gateway or femto gateway node. In another aspect no landline is necessary for femto AP operation.

Femto network platform also includes components e.g. serving nodes gateway nodes and interfaces that facilitate packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP traffic and signaling generation for networked telecommunication via access points . It is noted that femto network platform and associated femto APs can integrate seamlessly through suitable interfaces with substantially any packet switched PS based and circuit switched CS based network such as macro network platform . As an example integrate into a 3GPP core network can be accomplished through conventional interfaces like Iu CS Iu PS Gi Gn.

In communication environment confined area s can be served through a non mobile network platform which can include one or more of wide area networks such as a telephony network e.g. public switched telephony network PSTN an internet protocol based network e.g. internet service network IP multimedia service network or a broadband network e.g. DSL internet service network cable television network . Disparate coverage areas can be connected to mobile network platform through backhaul link s which are substantially the same or the same as backhaul link s and . Data traffic and signaling to and from device s for example a personal computer served by non mobile network platform can be facilitated by a non mobile network interface and an associated link component that attaches the device s . Link component can be wired and can include single or multi line twisted pair lines such a FireWire bus a general purpose interface bus GPIB line Universal Serial Bus USB connectors recommended standard RS 232 connectors Ethernet connectors digital visual interface DVIs cables high definition multimedia interface HDMI cables and so forth. Alternatively or in addition link component can be wireless including LOS links such as wireless infrared IR or non LOS links. It is noted that non mobile network platform can be interfaced via a gateway node such as a packet data network gateway with macro network platform and thus access femto network platform .

Additionally it is to be noted that macro network platform as well as femto network platform and non mobile network platform include components that facilitate data generation and delivery in accordance with modulation and multiplexing modes specific to the type of service s provisioned by each of such network platforms. In particular network platforms and can include application server s billing component s operation and maintenance component s interfaces or gateways between data generation components e.g. cameras that capture live events such as a football game a political speech a surgical procedure that is part of a remote surgery event web based sources of content s . . . data delivery components and so on. It should be appreciated that data generation components are termed packet data networks when such components deliver packetized data flows.

In an aspect of the subject innovation the integration among macro femto and non mobile network platforms is exploited to remotely convey multimedia content s e.g. photos movie clips sound clips and signaling from a mobile station e.g. UE or a non mobile networked device e.g. PC to a WDMF served through femto cell coverage. Additionally an agent that operates a mobile station or non mobile device can receive information related to configuration and operation conditions of WDMF and content s directed thereto from a third party user. Various aspects of communication of content s and signaling in accordance to the subject innovation are discussed in detail next.

In an aspect to supply at least one of content s or signaling for delivery and to ensure integrity of content s and operation of mobile network content manager component includes an integrity component that through various mechanisms validates i a subscription of a source of content s or signaling such as a K ary subscriber and associated apparatus e.g. a mobile device or non mobile device to deliver the content s or signaling and ii credentials associated to the source of content s and signaling a credential or credential type is specific to the source of content e.g. SIM or USIM credentials. It should be appreciated that validation of signaling can include a determination whether a command for WDMF conveyed through signaling is supported or can be executed by WDMF . In an aspect of the subject innovation content integrity is further supported at least in part through format component which can switch a format and resolution of received content s to a format and resolution that can be consumed e.g. rendered or played through WDMF . Format component also can compress and subsequently decompress received content s in order to adjust size of content s to traffic conditions over a backhaul link in which content s is transported or conditions of radio link in the confined area served by femto AP and that hosts WDMF . In an aspect radio link conditions can include signal to noise ratio SNR signal to noise and interference ratio SNIR DL pilot reference signal over thermal noise DL PRSOT and UL PRSOT it should be appreciated that for UL the term sounding reference signal can be adopted instead of pilot reference signal the former replicates terminology generally used in macro coverage. Moreover content s compression can facilitate to store such content s efficiently in content s storage within memory .

Format component can determine a specific format utilized for received content s e.g. MPEG 4 Rec. 601 MP3 and so on and associated quantization such as color quantization sound quantization or data quantization. In an aspect analysis can be based on a set of received packets within a data stream and blind decoding with a set of hypothesis formats the set of hypothesis formats can be extracted from subscription information provided by a primary subscriber associated with WDMF and stored in a subscriber account related thereto. Once format of content s has been determined format component can retrieve a set of one or more formats that are supported in WDMF from a subscriber account associated thereto in order to assess whether to upconvert or downcovert the resolution e.g. number of received pixels per image of received contents for example in order to match display resources e.g. display real estate of WDMF B. Such conversion can be effected according to specific algorithms e.g. inverse discrete cosine transform DCT with subsequent filtering retained in memory . In addition format component can utilize a determined format e.g. a preferred format to consume multimedia content s in a WDMF to resize data packet frames e.g. conversion from high bitrate to low bitrate data that convey content s to the WDMF or expected or intended image and sound quality e.g. constant bitrate to variable bit rate . At least two advantages of the foregoing format adjustment of content s directed to wireless WDMF are the following. i A subscriber e.g. primary subscriber secondary subscriber through K ary subscriber is not constrained to a specific set of formats for content s . ii Operational resources in WDMF can be optimally utilized which provide an end user a rich experience and can increase a perceived user experience in connection with content management service provided at least in part through content manager component .

Alternatively it is to be noted that content manager component can disable the foregoing operation of format component when an indication to do so is received at a time content management service is subscribed. In such a scenario an error message can delivered to a source of content s when format of received content s fails to be supported by an intended WDMF .

To automatically adjust format of content s format component can employ artificial intelligence. The term intelligence refers to the ability to reason or draw conclusions about e.g. infer the current or future state of a system based on available information about the system. Artificial intelligence AI can be utilized to identify a specific context or action or generate a probability distribution of specific states of a system without human intervention. To infer optimal formats e.g. data frame size packet bitrate etc for transacted content s delivery in order to achieve optimal mobile or non mobile device performance optimization component can rely on artificial intelligence techniques which apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis for configuration weight or probability determination principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm and reinforced learning to information on a set of content s data streams.

In particular format component can employ at least one of various methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. The foregoing methods can be applied to identify e.g. determine a statistical weight different bitrates and compression schemes for video and sound streaming pixel resolution to increase user perceived experience which can be measured via subscriber attrition rates and new subscriber gains.

To further facilitate management of content s directed to WDMF content manager component also includes scheduler component that can facilitate delivery of content s from a mobile network plane perspective Scheduler component conveys content in accordance to various operational factors like pattern of content s traffic to subscribed WDMFs wherein a pattern of traffic includes quality of service QoS associated with a served WDMF radio link condition s of subscribed WDMFs which can be determined via femto AP and so forth. In addition scheduler component can also control content s delivery from a subscriber plane perspective via predetermined preferences or delivery settings established by a primary subscriber .

In an aspect of the innovation subscription s incurs charges when issues the charges are assessed and administered by billing component . It is to be noted that charges can include on the cloud storage fees e.g. charges for content s stored in memory . Billing component can adopt or offer one or more pricing schemes such as i flat fee for a specific volume of managed content s or traffic or for a specific time interval e.g. a week a month a quarter . . . irrespective of traffic magnitude ii usage based fee with predetermined charges for each managed item or iii charges against a subscriber s s prepaid fee for content management. In addition billing component can assess promotional charges e.g. discounted price free of charge for selected subscribers such as loyalty subscribers of femto coverage service or implement almost any other pricing differentiation schemes like segmented pricing. It should be appreciated that in an aspect billing component can be a part of a billing server that manages charges for macro or femto services through mobile network platform .

In an aspect of the subject innovation content manager component receives multimedia content s and signaling through access node s . It should be appreciated that content s and signaling are conveyed via communication element which is a communication conduit that can embody either backhaul link or or both or RAN elements and at least a portion of a non mobile network. In an aspect content s and signaling are received through serving node s and relayed to content manager component via gateway node s communication among serving node s and gateway node s is facilitated by a reference link e.g. Gn in EDGE or 3GPP UMTS . To deliver content s which can be a reformatted or compressed version of received content s or can be the same as received content s and signaling which can include received signaling content manager component delivers the content s and signaling to gateway node s which is then relayed to serving node s and delivered to WDMF through backhaul link to femto AP .

Processor confers at least in part the functionality of almost any component within mobile network platform while memory elements not shown within memory can retain data structures code instructions and algorithms related to such functionality the processor is configured to exploit information e.g. execute code instructions that reside within the memory elements in order to provide specific functionality to the mobile network platform .

With respect to alarm criteria such criteria can be based at least in part on guidelines or protocols from government entities e.g. Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA National Hurricane Center Federal Bureau of Investigations FBI local authorities such as police and firefighters and so forth related to measures to be undertaken during an emergency situation. Such protocols can be set forth as a part of the Warning Alert and Response Network WARN Act. With respect to emergency information monitor component can receive such emergency information which can include type of emergency e.g. fire hazards terrorist attacks floods hurricane watch heat wave snowstorm watch school shootings . . . affected locations response management instructions or integrity proceedings e.g. evacuation shelter maneuver s . . . or the like. In an aspect of the subject innovation to receive emergency information monitor component can exploit an access gateway node which can be a part of gateway node s . At least one advantage of delivery of alarm s to WDMF as described herein is that mobile network platform can exploit location information of provisioned femto access points thus alarm s can be significantly accurately multicasted or broadcasted to affected locations with alarm s message s customized via alarm server for example to such affected locations.

In example system alarm component also can communicate subscriber based alarm indication s or alarm s to WDMF . To that end a primary subscriber can configure alarm criteria to include a set of one or more specific events and associated schedules times associated with an end user of WDMF . In an aspect subscriber based alarm s can be employed to establish a calendar of noteworthy events or to determine a set of reminders. As an example alarm s can be delivered to remind the end user of a specific appointment like a visit to the dentist a time for social event like ballroom dance or a Little League baseball game etc. It is noted that mobile network platform can limit a number of configured alarm s event s to mitigate excessive signaling associated with implementation of subscriber based alarm s .

In an aspect of the subject innovation WDMF also can communicate alarm s to all subscribers linked thereto. An example of such end user based alarm s is a distress call facilitated via push to talk the latter is routed through femto AP and backhaul link s conveyed to subscribers via access node s and link s . As part of push to talk subscribers can receive at least one of voice from the end user a specific ringtone a preset SMS communication or a preset MMS message specific SMS and MMS messages can be remotely configured through content manager component by a primary subscriber associated with the WDMF for instance preset distress call messages can be entered at a time of service subscription and uploaded to WDMF B through femto AP .

Monitor component can probe strength of radio link and determine whether the strength or conditions of radio link are adequate to communicate alarm s to WDMF B or subscribers . When conditions are below network based predetermined threshold s an alert notification e.g. SMS communication MMS communication a ringtone an email and instant message . . . is delivered to each of subscriber e.g. through associated with WDMF B. To probe radio link conditions monitor component can request femto AP to scan UL pilot reference signal s transmitted by WDMF such request can be part of a control channel and is conveyed through signaling . To determine DL conditions monitor component can convey through signaling a command to femto AP to transmit a DL pilot reference and receive a radio link or channel quality indicator CQI from WDMF B. It should be appreciated that to reduce complexity within WDMF B with the ensuing reduction in costs thereof DL radio link conditions can be adopted as the DL conditions.

Processor confers at least in part the functionality of almost any component within mobile network platform while memory elements not shown within memory can retain data structures code instructions and algorithms related to such functionality the processor is configured to exploit information e.g. execute code instructions that reside within the memory elements in order to provide specific functionality to the mobile network platform .

In another aspect security component can administers connection establishment of a subscriber s device employed to convey content s and signaling with mobile network platform . To implement secure attachment and management of content s directed to a WDMF with mobile network platform security component can utilize a set of security protocols or access protocols which can be retained in memory . In addition security component can exploit credentials received from a subscriber device as part of a security protocol or access protocol. Security protocols can include at least one of encryption or password protection. As an example a set of security protocols can include but is not limited to including Internet Protocol Security IPsec Secure Socket Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Shell SSH Secure File Transport Protocol SFTP Secure Copy SCP and so forth. It is to be noted that security component can exploit one or more of the illustrative security protocols to establish a virtual private network VPN for device to WDMF or platform to WDMF tunnel of content s e.g. content s and signaling e.g. signaling associated with content s management described in the subject innovation.

In example embodiment integrity component also includes a review component that provides i a redundancy layer for integrity of content s intended for a WDMF e.g. WDMF and ii a mechanism to analyze such content s . In an aspect as part of functional feature i review component can implement a spam filter to mitigate delivery of undesired content s to the WDMF. Spam filter preferences related to unauthorized content s directed to WDMF that are to be preempted can be included in subscriber based delivery setting s and configured by a primary subscriber. In another aspect as a part of functional feature ii review component can exploit delivery setting s to determine whether content s or signaling submitted by a K ary subscriber is to be approved prior to delivery to a WDMF . Such an approval cycle or act can be configured within delivery setting s which can be received at a time a subscription to a content s management service is issued to a primary subscriber the approval cycle for content s can include primary subscriber intervention whereas approval for signaling can exploit a look up mechanism of commands allowed to be utilized by a K ary subscriber. It should be appreciated that the primary subscriber can modify delivery setting s at substantially any time through subscriber account s modification can be accomplished through suitable signaling received from a device employed to access content s management service.

Mobile network platform receives content s or signaling intended to WDMF and exploits in part a femto network platform and radio access network for delivery. In an aspect macro serving SRV node s receive a data stream that carries at least in part content s or signaling and relays the data stream to macro gateway GTY node s which in turn relays the data stream to content manager for manipulation as described hereinbefore in connection with example system . Alternatively data stream associated with content s or signaling can be routed through reference link e.g. Gn in EDGE or 3GPP UMTS from macro gateway node s to femto gateway node s which can relay the data stream to content manager . Once signaling or manipulated content s e.g. reformatted compressed and scheduled by content manager to be delivered to WDMF content s are received at femto gateway nodes s and transmitted to femto serving node s which delivers such content s as part of content s to femto AP via backhaul link s for transmission to WDMF through wireless link . It should be appreciated that content s can include voice or other data traffic transmitted from WDMF in response to received content s . As an example end user of WDMF B can acknowledge received content s by reaching to the subscriber e.g. secondary subscriber via a push to talk capability available to WDMF . As another example end user of WDMF can enter a message by writing with a stylus on a display area of WDMF to respond e.g. thank to a sender in view of received content s it should be appreciated that WDMF can employ handwriting recognition to digitize the message entered with the stylus and deliver it as part of content s .

In an aspect access component interfaces a subscriber with a source of content s such as memory element s in mobile that retains multimedia content s and content s extant in WDMF B and access credential e.g. a MDN of WDMF . In addition access component can interface the subscriber with a data entry interface e.g. key pad touch screen in mobile that allows to enter commands directed to WDMF e.g. a command to delete extant content s in WDMF . It is to be noted that deletion of a content s in WDMF can be soft wherein a content is removed from the WDMF and retained in content s storage or hard in which case the content s are removed from WDMF and content s storage . It is noted that the various commands can be directed to WDMF . Such commands are primarily determined by a set of commands that WDMF can execute. An example set of commands can include the following 

It is to be appreciated that a WDMF can execute other commands and a universe of commands is determined by all commands that a WDMF is configured to execute. In an aspect commands include directives to control or monitor a WDMF e.g. WDMF . As an illustrative example a son e.g. a primary subscriber or system subscriber who has bought a WDMF for his mother e.g. an end user can convey one or more commands as discussed above or in connection with example system below to remotely control the portable wireless enabled media frame such that the mother can view media files without directly operating the WDMF besides maintaining the WDMF on. In one aspect the son can select a subset of commands that can be performed locally by the mother. For example the mother can be allowed to enter a command through almost any or any input device connected to the portable wireless enabled media frame for example to delete pictures display her favorite pictures more often etc.

In example system to deliver content s or signaling a subscriber e.g. primary subscriber who operates device logs in a related subscriber account and access content s associated with a set of subscribed WDMFs which the subscriber can manage. Access component facilitates login in the subscriber account. To at least that end device conveys credential s which are received in non mobile network platform s and relayed to mobile network platform by gateway node s . In an aspect credential s are generated by subscription component at a time a subscription to content manager issues. Content manager via integrity component validates credential s and signals to device via signaling that access to content s management is granted an indication that access is granted can be embodied in a set of reserved bits in a control channel frame or packet header two or more bits in the set of reserved bits can be arranged in specific combinations to convey access privileges associated with the subscriber to whom access has been granted. Signaling among mobile network platform and non mobile network platform s can be exchanged via reference link e.g. a Gn or link when non mobile network platform is operated as a part of a service provider network that includes mobile network platform or Gi link when non mobile network platform is external to mobile network platform .

Once access component receives the indication that access to content management service is granted access component can facilitate upload of content s or communication of signaling to WDMF . Content s or signaling are delivered to non mobile network interface and relayed to gateway node s in non mobile network platform s which relays content s or signaling to mobile network platform . As discussed above access node s receives content s or signaling and transmits it to content manager component which processes the content s or signaling and conveys it to WDMF through backhaul link s to femto AP and via wireless link there from.

Additionally access component interfaces a subscriber with a source of content s such as memory element s in device that retains multimedia content s and content s extant in WDMF and access credential e.g. a MDN of WDMF B. In addition access component can interface a subscriber with a data entry interface in device that allows to enter commands directed to WDMF e.g. a command to delete extant content s in WDMF . As an example device can be ultrasound equipment that is connected to a non mobile hospital network which is an embodiment of non mobile network platform . After data associated with fetus development of a primary subscriber undergoing a routine prenatal exam the subscriber can login via access component to content management service and select through access component one or more shots of the fetus to be conveyed to a WDMF e.g. WDMF hosted and operated in the residence of the subscriber parent s . As another example device can be digital camera that is connected to via a USB cable connection e.g. an embodiment of link component to a router e.g. an embodiment of non mobile network interface that accesses a DSL internet provider e.g. an embodiment of non mobile network platform s the digital camera is operated by a secondary subscriber who can login to content management service through the digital camera and transmit pictures to a WDMF hosted in the secondary subscriber s grandparent s access component can be embodied in a thin client within the digital camera.

In addition primary subscriber can configure a delivery pattern through delivery setting s at the time of subscription issuance or thereafter. The delivery setting s can include criteria for delivering or pushing specific content when it is updated or when new content of a specific type e.g. news short literary works such as poems travel pictures and movie clips season pictures like autumn colors challenges or solutions or portion of solutions to crosswords or other type of brain games like Sudoku . . . is generated or uploaded in content server s . It should be appreciated that when content s in content server s is protected through license terms content s are disseminated in accordance to a license agreement e.g. license free content GNU General Public License trial term license multi user license single device license copyrighted content and so forth among a primary subscriber that configures delivery setting s . It should further be appreciated that in contrast to conventional web based feeds content s are conveyed to WDMF B according to delivery setting s configured by a primary subscriber rather than conveyed to disparate content server s in disparate service platform s .

Additionally service provider platform can be operated by an entity that operates mobile network platform . In an aspect service provider platform can be an internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or an internet service provider. Alternatively service provider platform can be operated by a disparate entity. In an aspect integrity of content s is maintained through integrity component which can determine whether originating service provider platform is allowed to deliver content s directed to WDMF . Integrity component can utilize a look up table not shown of authorized service provider platforms to validate a logic address e.g. IP address of content s server . It should be appreciated that other validation mechanisms can be employed such as conventional encryption key challenge s e.g. Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol CHAP posed to content server s or via issuance of digital certificate s for content server s once a subscriber designates a service provider platform. In the latter scenario in an aspect of the subject innovation security component can act as a certificate authority which can generate and receive certificates e.g. credential s associated with designated content server s and verify the certificates e.g. electronic credentials such as codes labels tokens lightweight files encrypted or otherwise .

In example system service provider platform includes content server s functionally coupled to gateway node s through a reference link . Gateway node s receives delivery setting s and delivers content s extant or generated in content server via reference link . Delivery setting s are retained in memory . In addition gateway node s also delivers credential s . Content s or credential s are received by macro serving node s and routed to content manager in substantially the same manner as discussed above in connection with example system or .

Additionally access component can exploit content interface to render content s that resides in a WDMF associated with a subscriber e.g. a K ary subscriber that has logged into content management service. In addition content interface can expose multimedia content s that reside in a mobile device e.g. UE or non mobile device e.g. device and can be conveyed to a WDMF e.g. WDMF . A processor not shown can provide at least in part the functionality of access component and components that reside thereon.

Icons and represent WDMFs linked to source of content and related subscriber e.g. primary subscriber each of the icons and is displayed in conjunction with credentials and that can be employed to contact respective WDMFs. When icon or is actuated in substantially the same manner as icon e.g. through one or more of mouse or joystick clicks a tap in case display interface provides a touch screen a hover of an object such as a subscriber hand a voice command content extant in the WDMF related to the actuated icon is rendered Rendering area displays content items extant in WDMF and rendering area displays content items in WDMF . Such content can be displayed in accordance with various schemes like windows based scheme with iconic representation in which each content item is presented as an icon pop up representation wherein each content item or groups of content items can be displayed as a pop up window of suitable size or a text based representation with scroll down or scroll sideways delivery or static rendering in which content items are listed in accordance to an item name. It should be appreciated that the number of WDMFs that is presented as icons reflects the number of WDMFs that are actually subscribed to the subscriber that operates the device associated with content source . In an aspect when conditions of radio link are in failure e.g. conditions are insufficient to deliver content s the icon associated with the WDMF can be presented in conjunction with indicia that conveys the WDMF is unavailable to receive content s .

Content displayed in areas and can be accessed and manipulated through various gestures such as click drag and drop touch or tap hover of an object such as a subscriber hand voice command s etc. In an aspect hovering over the content s can result in a preview thereof. In addition actuating icons and can display a set of instructions supported in respective WDMFs. A primary subscriber e.g. subscriber can observe content s accessed and manipulated by secondary tertiary . . . K ary subscribers however based upon delivery privileges primary subscriber can be prompted for approval e.g. via a icon or rejection e.g. through an icon of attempted manipulation of content s by K ary subscribers. When a subscriber that is not a primary subscriber is approved or declined to conduct a content manipulation indicators or can be displayed to the subscriber. Content s can be manipulated e.g. transferred from content s source deleted from a WDMF via gestures such as drag and drop voice command or the like. In another aspect content s from a first WDMF e.g. WDMF can be transferred to a second WDMF e.g. WDMF in substantially the same manner as content s are uploaded from content s source to a WDMF. It is to be noted that gestures that facilitate content s manipulation and management translated into suitable signaling that is conveyed to content manager component through signaling .

It should be appreciated that specific format of rendered content s available to be managed and associated gestures to effect management can depend at least in part upon display resources available a device e.g. UE that originates content s directed to a WDMF e.g. WDMF .

Operation of communication platform and components associated thereto can be dictated by a specific mode of wireless communication exploited by WDMF . A processor can determine and schedule the various disparate modes of operation. As an example processor can schedule communication platform to receive terrestrial traffic and signaling and satellite traffic and control. Moreover processor enables at least in part communication platform to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates. Furthermore processor can facilitate construction of pilot signal s that can be employed for assessment of radio link conditions within the environment WDMF operates. Further yet processor can implement attachment protocols that allow WDMF to camp within a femto AP for wireless coverage in accordance with aspects described herein.

In example embodiment WDMF includes a display interface which can render multimedia content s available to WDMF e.g. content s received via femto cell AP or locally uploaded content s . Available content s include video clips sound clips image files text based files and trade specific files such as echography pictures radiology images etc. Display interface can render content s via visual or aural indicia. Available content s can be rendered in accordance with various schemes e.g. windows based schemes such as iconic representation pop up representation or text based representation with scroll down or scroll sideways delivery or static rendering and organized in various configurations within a display screen that is part of display interface . In addition display interface can display indicia that facilitates controlling operation of WDMF or reveal aspects of the functionality or operation thereof e.g. indicator s that convey wireless signal strength of non mobile devices registered with a mobile network and available for content transaction s . In an aspect display interface can be a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. A display screen has substantially larger real estate than a display screen in the mobile station and substantially less real estate than a monitor of a desktop computer or flat panel television set.

Additionally WDMF includes a data entry interface that facilitates interaction with an end user who can enter command s or directive s to consume or display multimedia content s available to the WDMF . As an example end user can enter command s to delete content s as discussed above the deletion can be soft or hard or to adjust a schedule that controls a rate at which favorite content s e.g. a picture s of a grandson deployed in a war zone or a newborn son or granddaughter a poem picture s of college graduation of the end user children . . . are displayed. As another example an end user can aggregate content s via data entry interface e.g. annotate rendered graphic content s or add audio content s in addition to edit content s available to WDMF . In addition data entry interface can facilitate placing alarm s such as a distress call to subscriber s associated with the WDMF in such scenario WDMF exploits processor to convey alarm s signaling and content s through femto AP and backhaul link s as discussed above. In an aspect end user can interact with WDMF and provide signaling to be effected locally or transmitted to a content management service or a subscriber e.g. signaling through various instruments such as a keypad touch screen microphone camera s . . . for data input. It is noted in one aspect that a primary subscriber can determine at a time of subscription or thereafter a set of commands that an end user can perform locally in order to ensure content s and operation integrity. An indication of the subset of allowed commands can be received by WDMF via signaling from a content manager component that effects content management service.

Wireless digital media frame also can include a peripheral component which can be connected to or facilitate connection to additional devices such as printer s media player s wireless router s e.g. non mobile network interface biometrics touch pad s etc. In an aspect to afford such connectivity peripheral platform can include jacks for one or more of Ethernet USB GPIB RS 232 FireWire optical or coaxial cable connectors. Peripheral platform facilitates to upload multimedia content s locally.

In example embodiment power supply can power up device wireless digital media frame and substantially any or any component included thereon through system bus . Power supply can be a rechargeable solar based e.g. through solar cells or chemical based e.g. lithium based battery. It should be appreciated that alternative or additional embodiments of WDMF may not include power supply and be powered via an attachment to a conventional power grid. Moreover yet additional or alternative embodiments can rely on a hybrid approach with power drawn from a battery and a power grid.

Additionally system bus can be employed to functionally and mutually connect most any components or elements in WDMF as presented herein regarding embodiment the components or elements include but not limited to display interface data entry interface peripheral platform and power supply or memory . System bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of conventional bus architectures.

In embodiment WDMF also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least in part in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation to substantially any electronic component within WDMF . In an aspect processor is functionally coupled through system bus to memory in order to store and retrieve or execute information necessary to operate or confer functionality at least in part to communication platform display interface and data entry interface and other operational features of WDMF .

Memory can be embodied at least in part in a UICC card or SIM card which contains SIM and USIM applications with associated credentials that can facilitate wireless communication of WDMF . Memory also can retain multimedia content s which WDMF can consume. Additionally memory can store data structures e.g. metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions related to protocols applications and utilities e.g. an operating system either proprietary or commercially available that facilitate operation of WDMF as described herein. It should be appreciated that while memory is illustrated as internal to WDMF it can be embodied at least in part in external removable memory elements connected to WDMF through peripheral platform .

The media receiving component can receive media files e.g content s sent to the example embodiment of a WDMF through a femto access point via the modem . Received media files can be displayed through display component . The modem can include control functions to enable communication with the WWAN and transfer of data in the downlink. The modem can be downlink enabled and can optionally allow the ability to transfer data in the uplink UL direction beyond control channels. For example the example embodiment of a WDMF can transfer data associated with available free space in memory to a mobile network platform in the UL. Further the modem can be configured to allow network control such that transfer of data scheduling could occur at various times of the day based on network sector loading due to traffic and propagation conditions and or based on user preferences. Further the modem can be configured to work on a prepaid condition or active account or unlimited usage account.

The example embodiment of a WDMF can typically include a processor that can be a processor based controller chip to control the WDMF. Specifically the processor can be a processor dedicated to analyzing information received by modem and or generating information for transmission on the UL a processor that controls one or more components of the example embodiment of a WDMF a processor that facilitates output of media files on a display screen or via speaker and or a processor that both analyzes information received by modem generates information for transmission on the UL controls one or more components of the example embodiment of a WDMF and facilitates output of media files on a display screen or via speaker .

Example embodiment of a WDMF can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store media files received from a sender over a femto network. Further memory can also store user preferences and or predefined user settings. In one example memory can be partitioned such that locally downloaded media files e.g. downloaded by an end user are stored in one partition and remotely downloaded media files e.g. content s are stored in another partition. A number of program modules can be stored in the memory including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and or program data. It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

Additionally a system bus not shown can be employed to couple system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processor . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures.

The media files e.g. content s received from the mobile wireless network can be displayed on the display screen and or audio files can be played via the speaker . It can be appreciated that the media files stored in the memory can also be received via ports such as but not limited to USB USB2 1395 SD card Compact Flash etc. Additionally system can include a power supply battery that can be employed to power the system . As an example power management techniques can be employed to save battery power such that the battery can last longer between recharge cycles.

An end user can enter commands and information into the example embodiment of a WDMF through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard a pointing device such as a mouse and or a touch screen display . A microphone can also be employed to enter data. For example the end user can employ the microphone to enter an audio clip associated with an image. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through an input device interface not shown that is coupled to a system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

The example embodiment of a WDMF can further include a codec that can be employed encode and or decode digital data. The codec can employ most any compression and or decompression algorithm to compress decompress a received media file. Furthermore the example embodiment of a WDMF can include a GPS global positioning system that can be employed to determine the current geographical coordinates of the example embodiment of a WDMF. The GPS can include a separate GPS antenna not shown or employ the antenna to communicate with a GPS satellite. In one example the example embodiment of a WDMF can receive broadcast warnings emergency alerts weather alerts etc. based on the current coordinates.

In addition the example embodiment of a WDMF is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

In view of the example systems described above example methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methodologies or methods are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example it is to be understood and appreciated that a methodology can alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram or interaction diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the subject specification. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers for execution by a processor or for storage in a memory.

At act at least one of content s or signaling e.g. commands instructions intended for a WDMF are received. At act the at least one of content s or signaling are supplied for delivery to the intended WDMF. In an aspect supplying the at least one of content s or signaling can include conducting integrity checks such as those described hereinbefore e.g. validating a subscription validating signaling performing spam filtering reformatting content s and so forth. At act the at least one of content s or signaling are delivered to the intended WDMF. This act can include formatting content s to adjust to a predetermined display resolution in the WDMF to convert to a specific multimedia format that can be rendered by the WDMF to compress the content s to meet bandwidth constraints for example imposed by a contracted femto QoS or improved network scheduling or the like. When content s or signaling is received form a K ary subscriber delivery can include an approval cycle whereby a primary subscriber linked to the K ary subscriber reviews and approves content for delivery. A primary subscriber can determine via delivery setting s whether a K ary subscriber can convey the desired content s or signal a specific command to a WDMF. At act received content s intended to the WDMF are retained. This act can include compressing the content s for storage resource optimization.

At act a command is received. At act a determination can be made whether the received command is a remote command or a local command. A remote command can be received remotely through mobile network platform as described supra and can be sent by a primary subscriber a secondary subscriber or other K ary subscriber. A local command can be entered by an end user by employing most any input device. At act it can be determined if the received command e.g. received via signaling is a remote command received over a femto access point e.g. femto AP operated by mobile network platform . The remote command can be recognized at act and processed accordingly at act . As an example a remote command can be employed by a primary subscriber or system subscriber to modify display settings in an intended WDMF receive media files save media files delete media files display particular images play audio clips receive MMS communication s SMS communication s or MBMS communication s prompt a generation and delivery of a report of current memory status in an intended WDMF place or receive a voice call or the like. When a local command is received a determination can be made if a local user e.g. end user is authorized to utilize the local command as indicated in verification act . According to an aspect local user s can have limited access to commands that can be specified and conveyed by a primary subscriber or system subscriber. When the local user is not authorized to employ the received local command an error message can be displayed to the local user at act for example an indication that the local user is not authorized to perform this command can be displayed in a display interface e.g. display . Conversely if the local user is authorized to employ the received local command the local command can be recognized at act and processed at act .

To provide further context for various aspects of the subject specification illustrates a block diagram of an example embodiment of a mobile that can deliver content s or signaling directed to a WDMF in accordance with aspects described herein. Additionally presents a block diagram of an example embodiment of a non mobile device which can be provisioned through a non mobile network platform and can be employed to convey content s or signaling to a predetermined WDMF in accordance with aspects described herein. Furthermore presents an example embodiment of a mobile network platform which can provide content management service in accordance with aspects described herein.

In mobile which can be a multimode access terminal a set of antennas Q is a positive integer can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices like access points access terminals wireless ports and routers and so forth that operate in a radio access network. It should be appreciated that antennas are a part of communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and signal s to be transmitted e.g. receivers and transmitters mux demux component and mod demod component . Operation of communication platform is substantially the same as operation of communication platform respective components or elements in communication platform operates in substantially the same manner as those components or elements in communication platform .

In embodiment multimode operation chipset s allows mobile to operate in multiple communication modes in accordance with disparate technical specification for wireless technologies. In an aspect multimode operation chipset s utilizes communication platform in accordance with a specific mode of operation e.g. voice Global Positioning System GPS . In another aspect multimode operation chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when Q 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm.

Mobile includes access component which operates in substantially the same manner as access component and can convey content s or signaling directed to a WDMF in accordance with aspects described in the subject specification. It should be appreciated that access component can include a display interface that render content in accordance with aspects of an interface component not shown that resides within access component .

Mobile also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component within mobile in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. As an example processor can be configured to execute at least in part instructions in multimode operation chipset s that afford multimode communication through mobile like concurrent or multitask operation of two or more chipset s . As another example processor can facilitate mobile to receive and convey signaling and content s e.g. various data flows that are part of an active management act initiated by a subscriber that operates mobile or an approval cycle associated with auxiliary subscribers e.g. secondary subscriber tertiary subscriber . . . . Moreover processor facilitates mobile to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Memory can store data structures e.g. metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs and so on.

In embodiment processor is functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to communication platform multimode operation chipset s access component and substantially any other operational aspects of multimode mobile .

Additionally in non mobile device a peripheral component can include or facilitate connection to additional devices such as printer s media player s wireless router s e.g. network interface biometrics touch pad s etc. In an aspect to afford such connectivity peripheral component can include jacks for one or more of Ethernet USB GPIB RS 232 FireWire optical or coaxial cable connectors. Additionally display interface can be a part of functional platform e.g. when non mobile device is a PC an IPTV interface a mobile a backprojector component a data projector . . . . Display interface operates in substantially the same manner as display interface and possess similar to those of display interface . In an aspect and like display interface display interface can be a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. It should be appreciated that rendering areas in display interface and can be substantially disparate.

It should be appreciated that non mobile device also can include a data entry interface that can allow an end user to perform at least one of i command non mobile device via configuration of functional platform ii deliver content s or signaling directed to a WDMF in accordance to aspects described herein or iii generate content s e.g. images via a built in camera or directive s for a subscribed WDMF. It should be appreciated that data entry interface can operate substantially the same manner as data entry interface and has substantially the same features thereof.

Power supply can power up device and substantially any component included thereon. It should be appreciated that alternative or additional embodiments of device may not include power supply and be powered via an attachment to a conventional power grid.

In embodiment non mobile device includes processor which can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to access component and substantially any component s thereon in accordance with aspects described herein functional platform communication platform when non mobile device includes it and substantially any other component of non mobile device . With respect to access component and components thereon processor can be configured to execute access protocols to convey credentials and gains access to a content management service to convey multimedia content s or signaling to a subscribed WDMF. In addition in connection with communication platform processor is configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component within communication platform in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. Moreover processor facilitates communication platform to process traffic and control data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Memory also can retain multimedia content s which can be directed to a WDMF in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation or security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates that facilitate access to a content management service e.g. content manager component . In addition memory can store data structures e.g. metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions or substantially any type of software or firmware that processor can execute to provide functionality associated with functional platform network or device information like policies and specifications code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission and so on.

As indicate supra presents an example embodiment of a mobile network platform which can provide a content management service for content s and signaling directed to a WDMF in accordance with aspects described herein. Generally mobile network platform can include components e.g. nodes gateways interfaces servers or platforms that facilitate both packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM and circuit switched CS traffic e.g. voice and data and control generation for networked wireless communication. In an aspect of the subject innovation as described above component within PS domain of network platform can be employed to effect communication among sources of content s and subscriber WDMFs in accordance with aspects described herein.

With respect to CS communication mobile network platform includes CS gateway node s which can interface CS traffic received from legacy networks like telephony network s e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or public land mobile network PLMN or a SS7 network . Circuit switched gateway node s can authorize and authenticate traffic e.g. voice arising from such networks. Additionally CS gateway node s can access mobility or roaming data generated through SS7 network for instance mobility data stored in a visitation location register VLR which can reside in memory . Moreover CS gateway node s interfaces CS based traffic and signaling and gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network CS gateway node s can be embodied at least in part in gateway GPRS support node s GGSN . In an aspect CS gateway node s can embody at lease in part gateway node s .

In the subject innovation in addition to receiving and processing CS switched traffic e.g. content s that can be part of a content s transmitted by a service provider platform and signaling PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with served e.g. through RAN mobile devices non mobile devices WDMFs through femto cell access points. Data sessions can include traffic or content s exchange with networks external to the mobile network platform like wide area network s WANs or service network s it should be appreciated that local area network s LANs can also be interfaced with mobile network platform through PS gateway node s . It is to be noted that WANs and LANs can embody at least in part service provider platform . Packet switched gateway node s generates packet data contexts when a data session is established. To that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s such as femto network platform and associated radio access network e.g. femto APs and radio links Wi Fi networks. It should be further appreciated that the packetized communication can include multiple flows that can be generated through service e.g. provisioning and application server s . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG . In an aspect PS gateway node s can embody at lease in part gateway node s .

In embodiment mobile network platform also includes serving node s that convey the various packetized flows of data streams e.g. content s or signaling directed to a subscribed WDMF received through PS gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . In an aspect serving node s can embody at least in part content server s in service provider platform . In another aspect serving node s can embody at least in part serving node s .

Server s in mobile network platform can execute numerous applications e.g. location services online gaming wireless banking wireless device management . . . that can generate multiple disparate packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s for example can include add on features to standard services provided by mobile network platform . Data streams e.g. content s or signaling directed to a WDMF can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authorization authentication and initiation of a data session and to serving node s for communication thereafter. It should be appreciated that PS gateway node s associated with a macro network platform can authorize or grant access to content management service and PS gateway node s associated with femto network platform can carry out communication with serving node s related to femto network platform . Server s can also effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of mobile network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authorization and authentication procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. Moreover server s can provision services from external network s e.g. WAN or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . It is to be noted that server s can include one or more processor configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example. It is should be appreciated that server s can include a content manager which operates in substantially the same manner as described hereinbefore in connection with content manager component . Server s also can facilitate operation of alarm component in substantially the same or the same manner as alarm component . Furthermore server s can embody at least in part content server s in service provider platform . It is noted that service network s also can embody at least in part service provider platform .

In example wireless environment memory can store information related to operation of mobile network platform . Information can include content s directed to WDMF received from various sources of content s as described herein subscriber account s and associated credential s and delivery settings s additional subscriber data pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns technical specification s of served WDMFs and so forth. Memory can also store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN LAN SS7 network or service network s .

One or more embodiments of this application may relate to co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 325 812 filed on Dec. 1 2008 entitled PORTABLE WIRELESS ENABLED DIGITAL MEDIA FRAME. The entirety of this application is incorporated herein by reference.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In particular the aspects or features can be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor and or other combination of hardware and software e.g. firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. For example information relevant to operation of various components described in the disclosed subject matter and that can be stored in a memory can comprise provisioning information security credentials and algorithms files and applications policies such as alarm s criteria and alarm reports and so forth. It is to be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

