---

title: Remote blood pressure waveform sensing method
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a non-contact method and apparatus for continuously monitoring a physiological event in a human or animal, such as blood pressure, which involves utilizing a laser-based interferometer system in combination with a laser tracking system and a signal processor to produce a waveform that is representative of a continuous physiological event such as blood pressure or respiration in a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08444568&OS=08444568&RS=08444568
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08444568
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120206
---
This application is a divisional of pending prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 131 472 filed on 2 Jun. 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 177 721 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 121 of the prior application s filing date.

This patent application is co pending with the following related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 131 472 by the same inventor Lynn T. Antonelli.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for measuring and monitoring physiological events in humans and animals and more particularly to a non contact non invasive method and apparatus for continuously measuring and monitoring physiological events in humans or animals using a laser Doppler vibrometer to create waveforms which are directly related to the physiological events.

The measurement of physiological events such as blood pressure heart rate temperature and respiratory rate is fundamental to determining the fitness and wellbeing of humans and animals. The continuous recording and analysis of an accurate blood pressure waveform identifies important events in the cardiac cycle such as a subject s heart rate the timing of peak systole the dicrotic notch the pre ejection period PEP and the left ventricular ejection time LVET . The location of the dicrotic notch indicates the closure of the aortic valve which occurs at the end of left ventricular ejection representing the end of the systolic phase and the start of diastole and left ventricular relaxation. Information about the systolic time intervals is useful in assessing cardiac condition and various disease states including left ventricular failure myocardial infarction coronary artery disease and valve disorders.

The time intervals of the various stages of the cardiac cycle are also measured to detect changes under cardiac disease conditions and pharmacological influence. For example continuous monitoring of pre ejection period and left ventricular ejection time ratios may be utilized to test the effects of drugs exercise or other stimuli whereby an increase or decrease in the ratio may indicate an improvement or worsening of systolic efficiency.

The three basic systolic time intervals are the pre ejection period PEP left ventricular ejection time LVET and total electromechanical systole QS2 . Linear relationships between heart rate HR and the duration of the systolic phases of the left ventricle LV have been derived by observation. These following equations have been utilized in the prior art to predict the durations of the systolic time intervals for normal patient observations based on the heart rate alone 0.0004 0.126 1 0.0016 0.394 2 2 0.020 0.522 3 

The dicrotic notch as observed on a blood pressure waveform indicates the occurrence of the closure of the aortic valve and marks the end of left ventricular ejection. This event represents the end of the systolic phase and the start of diastole and left ventricular relaxation. The location of the dicrotic notch on a blood pressure waveform can be used for evaluating the above listed linear regression equations that may be utilized to predict the systolic time interval as a function of heart rate. The regression equations are expected to deviate for patients with cardiac dysfunction.

Traditionally the measurement of arterial or blood pressure waveforms in humans or animals is done either by non invasive methods that make physical contact with the patient or by invasive methods that require penetration of a patient s dermis. For example a noninvasive method of measuring blood pressure in small animals uses a sphygmomanometer cuff wrapped around the subject s foreleg foot or the base of the tail. As the cuff is being inflated an ultrasonic probe is used to hear the sounds that correspond to the systolic end points that are used to determine the corresponding blood pressure value. This method provides only systolic pressure values for a moment in time and does not provide a time continuous pressure waveform. There is not yet a method to measure diastolic pressure in small animals.

Alternatively an invasive method of measuring blood pressure utilizes a monitoring system having intra arterial catheters containing miniature pressure transducers for continuous monitoring of arterial pressure waveforms. These devices are also capable of measuring actual pressure amplitudes in time but by their design are inserted into the arterial system which may cause distress.

Typically monitoring of the blood pressure waveform for animals is not routinely done even though high blood pressure in animals can be symptomatic of a variety of diseases including chronic renal failure hyperthyroidism Cushing s disease diabetes mellitus acromegaly Glomerular disease polycythemia and pheochromocytoma.

There exists a need to continuously and accurately measure blood pressure without making physical contact with the subject especially for patients such as burn victims neonates and patients who need to be monitored without disturbing sleep or rest. There is also a need to take such measurements on a subject that may be prone to sporadic movement. The proposed laser based non contact and noninvasive technique is capable of measuring the arterial pressure waveform from which the timing of various events in the cardiac cycle can be determined without causing additional distress or discomfort.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide an improved non contact blood pressure waveform monitoring apparatus and method.

Another object is to provide a laser based system that may be utilized to continuously provide highly detailed information about the timing characteristics of the blood pressure waveform.

Another object is to provide a system that does not require elaborate adjustments of one or more lasers and laser detectors so that the system may be quickly utilized.

Another object is to provide a system that is capable of taking measurements from a subject when the subject is moving.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the drawings the descriptions given herein and the appended claims. However it will be understood that the above listed objects and or advantages of the invention are intended only as an aid in understanding aspects of the invention are not intended to limit the invention in any way and do not form a comprehensive list of objects features and advantages.

The above objects are accomplished with the present invention by a combined implementation of a laser Doppler vibrometer LDV as the remote sensor a signal processing unit a graphical user interface a glint tracker and a retro reflector target to enhance sensor performance. The LDV directs a single output laser beam onto a measurement surface to detect the surface vibration velocity at the point where the laser hits the surface. The measurement surface towards which the laser beam is directed is a section of the subject s skin surface orienting the laser beam such that it is substantially perpendicular to the skin surface at a location wherein the skin surface is moveable in response to a blood pressure pulse and or detecting one or more variables related to movement of the skin surface. A low power 1 mW continuous red laser beam is directed onto the measurement surface. By interfering the detected beam that was reflected by the measurement surface with a reference beam within the LDV a measure of the surface velocity is obtained.

The non contact method and apparatus may further comprise use of detectors capable of detecting the one or more variables related to movement of the skin surface in a direction substantially parallel to the laser beam and or producing the blood pressure waveform representation by plotting skin surface velocity with respect to time through the use of a signal processor. The signal processing unit provides skin displacement information which more directly corresponds to the blood pressure waveform than a measured velocity signal. The blood pressure waveform can be obtained by integrating the velocity signal to obtain surface displacement.

The retro reflector target provides a practical sensor mount scheme for veterinary use and is used in conjunction with the glint tracker to keep the laser Doppler vibrometer on target when a subject is prone to sporadic movement.

The present invention provides a non contact method and apparatus for continuously monitoring physiological events such as the anatomical blood pressure waveform with sufficient accuracy and precision to determine important timing related parameters such as for example the left ventricular ejection time LVET and pre ejection period PEP . For cardiac cyclic timing diagnostic purposes the timing of the blood pressure waveforms should be measured with sufficient accuracy so that the components of the waveform e.g. the dicrotic notch are available for accurate analysis. However it has been observed by the inventors that cardiac cyclic analysis of the blood pressure waveform does not require absolute values of blood pressure. Thus while the present technique does not necessarily directly measure or provide absolute values of blood pressure cyclic analysis of the blood pressure waveform can be readily performed utilizing the data produced by the present invention. Calibration techniques may be utilized as discussed hereinafter to provide absolute values in certain circumstances if desired.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown a non contact blood pressure waveform monitoring system for remotely and continuously measuring the blood pressure waveform of a human or animal through noninvasive means that require no physical contact. Measurements can be done on the skin over any artery that produces a measurable vibration of the skin surface. System utilizes laser Doppler vibrometer sensor to detect the movement of skin on a subject in this case the skin surface is above a major artery.

Laser Doppler vibrometer comprises laser source capable of emitting a laser beam that travels the distance from laser source to skin surface . The laser beam is preferably directed perpendicularly or substantially perpendicularly to skin surface . Blood flowing through the artery directly below the skin causes skin surface to pulsate in a rhythm corresponding to ventricular contractions of the subject s heart. Skin surface moves an amount x as indicated by numeral from its initial position to a position represented by plane . The maximum displacement of the skin surface is caused by the peak in the systolic cardiac cycle when the heart left ventricle forces the blood volume into the aorta. This corresponds to a peak in the displacement waveform. As the skin surface changes direction and begins to contract the skin velocity goes to zero during this change in skin direction. x represents the distance of movement of the plane of skin surface in a direction substantially parallel to the laser beam produced by laser source .

The accuracy and reliability of the laser Doppler vibrometer sensor is dependent upon it receiving laser reflections from the measurement surface. A surface with a poor reflective quality will degrade sensor performance by decreasing the detectable signal level and increase the noise. Reduced optical return and poor laser reflection from the skin surface will diminish the velocity amplitude measured by the laser beam . One solution is to prepare the skin surface by removing the hair around the detection area. Another alternative is to place a strip of retro reflective tape on the skin surface . The retro reflective tape can be located above an artery on the subject s neck carotid artery . The retro reflective tape can also be located on the subject s leg or on top of the foot which do not have breathing modes associated with it.

Laser beam is directed at and reflected by retro reflective tape . The reflected laser beam is focused by lens and recovered by detector . The reflected laser light beam is modulated by the movement of skin surface by means of a Doppler shift in the optical wavelength as compared to the original laser beam produced by laser source . Detector generates a signal corresponding to the velocity of the pulsatile skin motion as derived from the Doppler shift.

Since the measurement subject may move during monitoring a means for remote steering of the laser beam onto the desired measurement point on the skin surface can be achieved using a tracker system. A glint tracking system is utilized in conjunction with the placement of the retro reflective tape to steer the laser Doppler vibrometer sensor s laser beam automatically onto the retro reflective tape . The laser beam is continuously steered onto a position where it will receive a direct reflection from the desired position on the skin surface . The glint tracking system uses its own laser beam originating from the tracker light source and directed onto the retro reflective tape combined with the laser Doppler vibrometer sensor laser beam . The laser beam from the laser Doppler vibrometer sensor is directed into the glint tracking system which is designed to align the laser beam onto the tracker beam through a beam combiner such that both the laser beam and tracker beam are superimposed and both beams take advantage of the motion controlled mirror that provides mirror steering of the beams. Both the laser beam and tracker beam are directed onto the surface of the retro reflective tape placed on the desired skin surface location. The combined laser beam and tracker beam are steered through a search pattern until a reflection from the retro reflective tape is detected by the tracking beam detector . The glint tracking system is used in combination with a programmable computer that serves as the tracking system controller with an active feedback loop dependent upon the tracking beam detector response to continually steer the tracker beam to maintain a lock on the retro reflective tape .

The frequency bandwidth of the laser Doppler vibrometer sensor will be required to be approximately 500 Hz to accommodate various heart rates for both animal and human subjects. For example certain animals have a heart rate in the range of 60 to 220 beats per minute bpm range depending on the animal type and size.

LDV sensor preferably comprises an interferometer for comparison of the initially produced laser beam or a reference beam derived there from with the reflected laser beam. In a preferred embodiment laser Doppler vibrometer operates by splitting the laser beam with a beam splitter into a reference beam and a sensing beam . The reference beam is frequency shifted by a modulator not shown in detector so that the components of detector can discriminate between the direction of motion of the skin surface towards and away from the detector . Detector measures the Doppler frequency of the reflected beam as modulated by the movement of skin surface . The maximum and therefore optimum reflected signal occurs when laser Doppler vibrometer is oriented such that the laser beam produced by laser source is substantially perpendicular to skin surface .

Detector generates a continuous stream of analog output voltages corresponding to the pulsation velocity of skin surface . Detector is connected to computer that serves as a signal processor that can digitize record and analyze the analog voltage signals as desired. Alternatively the analog voltage may be fed to a device such as an oscilloscope for immediate display of the blood pressure waveform. Computer will have a data sample rate equal to or greater than 1 kHz which is at least twice the maximum detectable frequency of the laser Doppler vibrometer sensor to meet the Nyquist criterion. A sample rate of at least 10 times the Nyquist rate provides a better estimate of the blood pressure waveform.

Computer performs several processing functions to the signal generated by the detector . The computer will initially clean up the signal to deal with the surface velocity artifacts resulting from combining the laser beam with the tracker system and motion of the subject. The computer will determine the subject s pulse rate from the signal as well as information on the systolic time interval parameters. The computer provides both the velocity signal sometimes referred to as the impedance waveform and the displacement signal. The computer is also utilized for data storage of the voltage signal from detector to save the recorded signals for archiving and or for post analysis of the signals and to calculate the voltage to a velocity for plotting and graphically displaying the plot. The computer provides a visual readout of the skin displacement blood pressure waveform and or the skin velocity impedance waveform on a monitor. The computer can receive inputs from an electrocardiogram connected to the subject to receive the QRS complex which is used to calculate systolic time interval parameters. The computer has USB and BNC analog outputs and a graphical user interface. The computer can be calibrated to correlate the velocity and motion of the skin surface to the pressure of the blood in the artery beneath skin surface .

Utilizing the pulsation velocity of skin surface over time computer can plot a highly accurate representative blood pulse waveform represented as the skin velocity signal as indicated in . The blood pressure waveform is obtained by integrating the velocity signal to obtain surface displacement as indicated in . Such a waveform is highly suitable for cardiac cyclic analysis. For instance dicrotic notch which indicates the closing of the aortic valve is plainly visible in the displacement waveform in as is the peak systole . Heart rate is easily determined by calculating the time between the easily distinguishable peaks of successive velocity pulse waveforms as indicated in or in the displacement waveform in which shows multiple peak systoles over a period of time. Once heart rate is determined the PEP LVET and QS2 can be derived from formulae 1 2 and 3 as indicated above. Thus while the present invention does not directly measure arterial pressure nonetheless it has been found by the inventors that the blood pressure waveform so obtained is quite suitable for timing analysis of the cardiac cycle to thereby evaluate cardiac function with timing events such as the systolic peak and dicrotic notch .

It will be noted that all of the components of the laser Doppler vibrometer including the laser source the lens and the detector are preferably built into a single housing along with the glint tracking system and are therefore more easily and quickly set up than prior art laser sensor instruments discussed herein. Moreover suitable laser Doppler vibrometers are commercially available so that after review of the specification herein one of skill in the art will be able to practice the invention.

The arterial pressure velocity waveform obtained by laser Doppler vibrometer or the calculated displacement waveform may be analyzed to obtain various waveform characteristics. The timing of these waveforms may be combined with an electrocardiogram signal to estimate systolic time interval parameters. Alternatively the systolic time interval may be estimated using heart rate information from the recorded waveform and applied to regression equations 1 2 and 3 .

While absolute blood pressures are not available directly from the present invention such readings may be obtained by calibration techniques as described below. For example a patient to be monitored during sleep may have the maximum minimum blood pressures directly measured by existing contact means while awake to thereby calibrate the blood pressure waveform that is produced in accord with the present invention. Statistical techniques relating to expansion distances directly measured may be determined to estimate blood pressures in normal patients such as based on the amplitude of the movement parameters. Thus the present invention might also be utilized to predict abnormalities due to deviations from anticipated values of absolute blood pressures determined statistically.

The advantages of the LDV tracker retro reflector combination enhances the detection capabilities of the blood pressure waveform sensor providing a means of maintaining a continuous laser reflection back into the LDV from the retro reflecting measurement surface to accommodate measurements where the subject has limited motion. It is necessary to convert the measured velocity into a skin displacement signal. This is a critical aspect of the invention in order to provide medical personnel a waveform that is similar to those achieved by catheter pressure sensor. However further analysis of the velocity waveform may contain additional information beyond that observed in the displacement waveform.

The invention is practical to use on humans in places such as a trauma center and military medical facilities. This is because the optical sensor can be quickly administered to a patient to provide the medical staff with the waveform that provides information on the cardiac physiology of a patient. The information of the blood pressure waveform was a vital piece of information in additional to a patient s vital signs to indicate a patient s health status as used in a trauma center environment. The blood pressure waveform is not readily available without catheterization which adds to patient distress. Likewise field military application using the blood pressure waveform as an indicator of triage to determine which soldier s need immediate attention on the battlefield.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

