---

title: Method for virtual channel management, method for retrieving digital contents, and network-based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels
abstract: A method for virtual channel management is provided. The method includes the following steps. In response to a command, a control unit of a network-based multimedia reproduction system determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. When the command is associated with virtual channel switching, the control unit checks whether a channel value corresponding to the command exists in an application virtual channel table. When the channel value exists in the application virtual channel table, the control unit determines an application corresponding to the channel number from the application virtual channel table, and executes the application. According to a first operation parameter set corresponding to the application, the control unit sets the executed application to retrieve digital contents through a network unit of the network-based multimedia reproduction system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043842&OS=09043842&RS=09043842
owner: WISTRON CORPORATION
number: 09043842
owner_city: New Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20121217
---
This application claims the benefit of Taiwan application Ser. No. 101117473 filed May 16 2012 the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates in general to a method and apparatus for processing channels of a network based multimedia reproduction system and more particularly to a method for virtual channel management a method for retrieving digital contents and a network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels.

When watching conventional television programs based on wired or wireless RF broadcasting users can easily select a desired program channel for watching by directly entering a channel number or pressing up and down arrow buttons for increasing or decreasing a channel number. More specifically a user only needs to enter a number or press up and down arrow buttons for increasing and decreasing a number though a remote controller with one hand.

In addition transmitting video images via the broadband Internet is currently a prevalent alternative way for watching videos or television programs. To put an Internet video function or Internet TV to use a corresponding application i.e. App needs to be installed in advance or installed by a user. Each application has its dedicated user interface and approach of providing contents. A user generally selects desired contents by employing four direction buttons i.e. up down left and right arrow buttons a confirm or select button and a back or return button. The above operations are far more sophisticated than simply entering a number or increasing decreasing a number. Further a user needs to look directly and attentively at a screen in order to select desired contents. However with diversified contents and types rendered by the Internet a relaxed atmosphere of enjoying watching the television as originally intended may instead become rather tense and serious.

The invention is directed to a method for virtual channel management a method for retrieving digital contents and a network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method for virtual channel management is provided. The method includes the following steps. In response to a command a control unit of a network based multimedia reproduction system determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. When the command is associated with virtual channel switching the control unit checks whether a channel value corresponding to the command exists in an application virtual channel table. When the channel value exists in the application virtual channel table the control unit determines an application corresponding to the channel number from the application virtual channel table and executes the application. According to a first operation parameter set corresponding to the application the control unit sets the executed application to retrieve digital contents through a network unit of the network based multimedia reproduction system.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels is provided. The network based multimedia reproduction system includes a display unit a storage unit a control unit and a network unit. The storage unit stores an application virtual channel table. In response to a command the control unit determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. When the command is associated with virtual channel switching the control unit checks whether a channel value corresponding to the command exists in an application virtual channel table. When the channel value exists in the application virtual channel table the control unit determines an application corresponding to the channel number from the application virtual channel table and executes the application. The control unit sets the executed application according to a first operation parameter set corresponding to the application to retrieve digital contents through the network unit and to display the digital contents on the display unit.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method for retrieving digital contents of a virtual channel is provided. The method includes the following steps. At least one notification signal is received by an application executed by a network based multimedia reproduction system. The application includes commands for retrieving digital contents through a network unit of the network based multimedia reproduction system and displaying the digital contents on a display unit of the network based multimedia reproduction system. In response to the at least one notification signal each parameter of a first operation parameter set is accessed to retrieve the digital contents by the network unit accordingly. The first operation parameter set corresponds to a channel value and the application recorded in a virtual channel table. The virtual channel table is for virtual channel switching of applications of the network based multimedia reproduction system.

The above and other aspects of the invention will become better understood with regard to the following detailed description of the preferred but non limiting embodiments. The following description is made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A method for virtual channel management a method for retrieving digital contents of a virtual channel and a network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels are described in the embodiments below. According to the embodiments the technique of virtual channels is implemented in the network based multimedia reproduction system to allow a user to activate an application or to switch to another application by way of channel switching so that a user can select and watch desired digital contents with ease. For example the network based multimedia reproduction system is a display playback system that can be connected to a multimedia source on the Internet e.g. through wired or wireless approaches such an Internet TV a smart TV an Internet multimedia player or device.

In an embodiment a virtual channel corresponds to an operation mode of an application. Selecting the virtual channel is to activate the corresponding application so as to display desired contents on a screen of the network based multimedia reproduction system. In addition to a program to be installed such as an Internet TV application an application may also be a request or use of network services such as applications including watching videos from a video sharing website e.g. YouTube browsing webmail e.g. Gmail chatting online e.g. instant messaging tools and browsing online photo albums. shows a schematic diagram of a network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels and receiving a command associated with virtual channel switching. The network based multimedia reproduction system is capable of executing multiple applications to to display digital contents on a screen e.g. in full screen or in other proportions. The network based multimedia reproduction system receives a command sent from a controller e.g. an electronic device such as a remote controller or a handheld device and determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. For example in a mode of the network based multimedia reproduction system when a channel code of the virtual channels is entered by a user it means that the application is executed to select and watch a particular online program. Similarly pressing a channel value of the virtual channels triggers the execution of the application for browsing emails in an inbox of an email account. For another example a channel jump or return an input source change a setting of a favorite channel list or an electronic program guide EPG performed on the controller may all trigger channel switching.

With reference to a method for virtual channel management according to an embodiment includes the following steps. In step S in response to a received command the control unit of the network based multimedia reproduction system determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. For example the received command is a signal generated and sent by the remote controller on which a user presses an up or down arrow button or entering a numerical code of a particular channel e.g. a code of an arbitrary text or such as YouTube mail or ABC or a code such as or . According to contents and properties of the signal the control unit determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. For example a channel selected by the user when the network based multimedia reproduction system is in a virtual channel mode is regarded as a virtual channel. Alternatively for example a channel that a user selects after pressing a specific button on the remote controller is regarded as a virtual channel. Approaches for determining whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching are not limited to the above examples and may be implemented by various other methods. When the control unit determines that the command is not associated with virtual channels switching the method as shown in step S may proceed with other process of the command e.g. switching of other conventional wired or wireless channels or other system functions or settings of the network based multimedia reproduction system .

In step when the command is associated with virtual channel switching the control unit checks whether a channel value corresponding to the command exists in an application virtual channel table wherein the channel value may be a code or number as in the above examples. The application virtual channel table records a relationship between a virtual channel and a corresponding application. As shown in a column in Table 1 a channel 100 indicates that a corresponding application of a virtual channel is YouTube Top 10 i.e. top ten videos on this video sharing website.

When the channel value exists in the application virtual channel table the control unit determines an application corresponding to the channel value from the application virtual channel table as shown in step S. For example for a channel value a corresponding application of YouTube Top of a video sharing website is determined. When the channel value does not exist in the application virtual channel table an original channel e.g. a current channel or a predetermined channel is sustained as shown in step S.

In step S the control unit executes the application. In step S the control unit sets the executed application according to a first operation parameter set corresponding to the application so as to retrieve digital contents through a network unit of the network based multimedia reproduction system . For example the first operation parameter set is obtained from the application virtual channel table. The application virtual channel table may include one or multiple virtual channels. In an embodiment other data may be added into the application virtual channel table depending on actual requirements e.g. an operation parameter set or application category. Referring to the exemplary columns of parameters in Table 1 an operation parameter set includes at least one operation command for controlling an application to retrieve desired digital contents associated with a corresponding virtual channel. For example the operation parameter set corresponding to the channel 100 includes Top10 representing a command for selecting top ten videos AutoPlay representing a command for automatic playback and Repeat representing a command for playback again. Details of other examples can be derived from Table 1 similarly. In another embodiment the operation parameter set may be independent from the application virtual channel table and is stored in a memory in the form of another data table. Further the application virtual channel table may be implemented by a database or multiple databases.

The program management module activates and manages an operation state such as active or pending of an application and determines an operation of an application according to data in a user command queue in the system memory . The system memory stores applications in execution e.g. and and the program management module and provides the user command queue and a buffer . A non volatile memory such as a flash memory stores an application virtual channel table . Further the non volatile memory may also store another data table such as a channel list of wired or wireless television applications and other related data.

In an example the application needs to utilize an Internet service such as a video sharing website an online photo album browsing webmail or performing online communication. Data downloaded by the network unit is temporarily stored in a memory region BK dedicated for the application in the buffer . An application that has been activated can access data stored in its dedicated memory region of the buffer so as to display or to execute corresponding functions. In addition to being buffered in the buffer For example certain data may also be stored to the non volatile memory or an external storage device such as a flash drive or a hard drive.

The signal transmitted from a controller e.g. a remote controller by way of such as an infrared Bluetooth wired or wireless link by a user is received by a command receiver e.g. an infrared receiver of the network based multimedia reproduction system and stored in the user command queue .

The program management module performs the steps of the method for virtual channel management according to the embodiment. In response to a received command in the user command queue the program management module determines whether the command is associated with virtual channel switching. When the command is associated with virtual channel switching the program management module retrieves an application e.g. stored in a flash or another memory corresponding to a channel number e.g. of the command with reference to the application virtual channel table and loads the application to the system memory for execution as shown in step S in .

While the program management module performs step S if the application e.g. the application corresponding to the channel value e.g. has been previously activated and is still stored in the system memory the application is directly set or changed to an active state. That is the corresponding program code does not need to be fetched again from the flash or another memory.

Further when the program management module performs step S if the application corresponding to the channel value is not an application in execution e.g. the application the application in execution e.g. the application is set to a pending state and the application corresponding to the channel value is then executed after the corresponding program code is fetched from for example the flash or another memory. Further in normal circumstances only one application is in an active state whereas other applications e.g. the applications and having been loaded to the system memory are to be switched to a pending state.

In an example the user next presses a CH button i.e. for switching to the next channel on the remote controller. According to the application virtual channel table the next channel value is 200 and corresponds to an email application. The previous application for watching the video website is switched to a pending state and then the email application becomes usable for the user readily. As shown in step S the program management module activates an application B e.g. an email application to perform step S in . Since the application B corresponding to the channel value is not an application A in execution the application A is set to the pending state and operations of the application A are suspended as shown in step S. In another embodiment when the application A is suspended by the user activating a next virtual channel may be done i.e. to perform step S. As shown in step S the program management module sets initialization parameters of the application B to perform step S in so as to activate the application B to reproduce the desired contents on the screen of the network based multimedia reproduction system. Further the application B may also be designed to report to or notify the program management module after starting to retrieve digital contents i.e. after the initialization is completed as shown in step S.

In another example the user next presses a CH button i.e. for switching to the previous channel on the remote controller or suspends operations of the application B. According to the application virtual channel table the previous channel value is 100 which corresponds to the application A. As shown in step S the program management module enables the application A to resume operations. That is to say since the application A has been previously activated and is still stored in the system memory the program management module directly sets or switches the application A to an active state. Further as shown in step S the application A may also be designed to report to or notify the program management module after successfully resuming operations.

In further example when the user terminates operations of the application A by use of the remote controller as indicated in step S the program management module terminates the execution of the application A. In this situation the application A is no longer stored in the system memory . In another embodiment when the user terminates the application A activating a next virtual channel may be done i.e. to perform step S. For another example when the user presses the CH button on the remote controller as shown in step S the program management module enables the application B to resume operations. Further the application B may also be designed to report to or notify the program management module after resuming operations as shown in step S. Moreover the user may terminate operations of the application B by use of the remote controller as shown in step S. In this situation the application B is no longer stored in the system memory .

In some embodiments the program management module may be designed to switch the screen of network based multimedia reproduction system to display the digital contents received by the application in the active state upon receiving the notification in step S step S step S and step S.

Further in the above embodiment for example the application connects to a network service e.g. a file server a website providing multimedia data streams or contents or a cloud server to retrieve digital contents via the network unit such as a network interface for wired or wireless LAN or broadband network based on IEEE 802.3 802.11 or other network techniques.

In step S at least one notification signal SE e.g. transmitted from the control unit when the program management module is executed is received by an application e.g. the application in executed by a network based multimedia reproduction system e.g. with a processing unit thereof e.g. the control unit in . The application includes commands for retrieving digital contents through a network unit e.g. the network unit and displaying the digital contents on a display unit e.g. the display unit .

In step S in response to the at least one notification signal SE the application executed by the processing unit accesses a first operation parameter set e.g. one or more parameters from a memory e.g. the buffer or another memory region such as a stack in the system memory the non volatile memory or an external memory to retrieve the digital contents through the network unit accordingly. The first operation parameter set corresponds to a channel value and the application recorded in a virtual channel table. The virtual channel table is employed for virtual channel switching of applications of the network based multimedia reproduction system.

The operation parameter set corresponding to the application may include one or more parameters e.g. parameter parameter and parameter . These parameters correspond to a virtual channel and correspond to operations for activating the application to display the desired contents on a screen of the network based multimedia reproduction system. For example in the network based multimedia reproduction system the virtual channel table and the operation parameter set may be predetermined configured by a user or obtained from other sources. Thus a virtual channel may be set to correspond to an Internet TV application e.g. a PPTV application that automatically plays three most popular movies. Specifically the operation parameter set in this example may be set as selecting three most popular movies represented by a parameter TopMovie automatically playing the three selected movies represented by a parameter AutoPlay and repeating the three selected movies represented by a parameter Repeat . The above parameters may generally refer to data for interacting with the network based multimedia reproduction system e.g. by way of a program management module . Such data may be commands setting values required by the commands response or notification messages or other data.

In an embodiment an application implemented according to the method for retrieving digital contents of virtual channels may be designed to include or provide at least one application programming interface for interacting with the network based multimedia reproduction system. In addition the application may be designed to interpret and respond to parameters sent from the control unit of the network based multimedia reproduction system and to allow the network based multimedia reproduction system to control behaviors of the application. Thus the technique of virtual channels for the application can be implemented to facilitate convenient channel switching operations for a user thereby simplifying the user s operations or avoiding complicated user s operations with the remote controller.

In some embodiments a network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels may be configured such as providing other functions or applications by the control unit . For example when a user enters the virtual channel number 810 on the remote controller an application such as one for PPTV is activated and a series of previews of videos or programs are automatically played. Further channel values or corresponding program names of the videos or programs can be displayed as the series of previews are played or a channel number or a corresponding program name is displayed for the sake of the user s selection.

The behaviors of the application A in may be regarded as a step for setting initialization parameters such as step S or may be regarded as another embodiment of the method for retrieving digital contents of a virtual channel. Steps in may be regarded as an embodiment of step S for setting the initialization parameters in .

Other embodiments further disclose a non transitory computing apparatus readable storage medium for storing program code of one or more programs or program modules for the virtual channel technique. In one embodiment the program code may implement and perform when executed a method according to e.g. as system software of the network based multimedia reproduction system. In another embodiment the program code may implement and perform when executed a method according to or e.g. as an application for the network based multimedia reproduction system. The readable storage medium in each of the embodiments may be without limitation to an optical information storage medium a magnetic information storage medium or a memory such as a memory card flash memory firmware ROM or RAM.

With the above embodiments the method for virtual channel management the method for retrieving digital contents and the network based multimedia reproduction system are provided. According to some of the embodiments the network based multimedia reproduction system implements the technique of virtual channels so that a user can activate an application or switch to another application by way of channel switching and conveniently select and watch desired digital contents. According to some of the embodiments an application can interact with the network based multimedia reproduction system with virtual channels and the network based multimedia reproduction system can then control the application according to operational behaviors represented by the operation parameter set so that the user may conveniently select and watch desired digital contents.

Therefore the network based multimedia reproduction system offers a convenient and ready to use application platform for providing videos and digital contents in a household or in a group to bring users with enhanced user experiences. Without performing sophisticated operations of applications the technique of virtual channels can be implemented in the network based multimedia reproduction system to significantly promote the practicability of the above application platform more particularly for young and elderly users.

While the invention has been described by way of example and in terms of the preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. On the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements and procedures and the scope of the appended claims therefore should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements and procedures.

