---

title: Crew creation for quest progression
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs for creating a crew to participate in a mission challenge in an online game includes identifying quests to complete the mission challenge. Each quest includes a plurality of tasks and each task includes a plurality of subtasks. A request feed is sent to members of a social graph of a user requesting the members to join the crew and to participate in completing the subtasks of the challenge. Skill set associated with each member of the social graph responding to the request feed is determined and matched with the skill set required for completing each subtask. A distinct subtask is delegated to each member based on the match. Each crew member's progression in completing the challenge is monitored and managed based on the progression made in the delegated subtask. Status of the challenge is updated and shared with the members of the crew.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09656177&OS=09656177&RS=09656177
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09656177
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
This application claims priority as a continuation application under 35 USC 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 244 696 entitled CREW CREATION FOR QUEST PROGRESSION filed on Sep. 26 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 079 775 filed Apr. 4 2011 entitled Apparatus Method and System for Crew Mechanics in Multiplayer Games which is incorporated herein by reference.

Online games that allow players to interact with other players have become popular. Some online games such as chess or bridge have a small number of players that play together at the same time. Other online games such as Massively Multiplayer Online MMO games can have a large number of players playing simultaneously. Online game operators also referred to as social game operators harness the power of online social networks to design games that closely integrate the players social graph data with their existing friendship connections.

Many online games especially the social network games encourage collaboration between the player and his her friends in completing the quests. For instance some online games such as CityVille FarmVille use what is called a neighbor concept wherein the neighbors i.e. other players interact with each other during their game sessions. It would be desirable to have an alternate way for accomplishing various missions of an online game in a fast and efficient manner using help from members within an online game community so as to provide more user satisfaction.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods systems and computer programs for creating a crew to participate in a mission challenge in an online game. The various embodiments enable a player initiating the online game to delegate subtasks that are part of a mission quest to one or more friends and allow the player to monitor and manage progression of the delegated subtasks and of the mission. The embodiments also provide controls to nudge a slacking player to become active and participate in accomplishing the assigned subtask. Delegating and closely monitoring the progression of each subtask in the quest enables a user to quickly accomplish the various missions so that additional challenges may be accessed and conquered leading to greater user satisfaction and involvement in the online game.

In one embodiment a method for creating a crew to participate in a mission challenge in an online game is disclosed. The method includes identifying quests to complete the mission challenge or simply challenge . Each identified quest includes a plurality of tasks and each task includes a plurality of subtasks. A request feed is sent to a plurality of members of a social graph requesting the plurality of members of the social graph to join the crew for participating in the completion of the subtasks of the mission challenge. The plurality of members in the social graph have a social relation with a user initiating the online game wherein the user is a mission leader managing the mission challenge. The skill set of each member of the social graph that responded to the request feed is determined. The skill set is required for completing the one or more subtasks of the mission challenge. A distinct subtask is delegated to each member of the social graph that responds to the request feed by matching the skill set required for completing the subtask with the skill set of each crew member that responded to the request. The delegation enables each crew member of the crew to execute subtasks independent of other members of the crew. Progression of the challenge is monitored and managed based on progression made in the subtasks delegated to the members of the crew and status of the mission challenge is updated based on the progression made by individual members of the crew. The updated status of the challenge is shared with members of the crew.

In another embodiment a computer server platform for creating crew to participate in a mission challenge in an online game is disclosed. The computer server platform includes one or more game servers wherein each game server includes a memory and a processor. The memory is operable to store local game state of each member of a crew local game state of a mission leader and a game state of the online game. The processor is operable to execute an algorithm of the online game wherein during execution of the online game the algorithm is configured to identify quests tasks within each quest and subtasks within each task for completing the mission challenge send a request feed to a plurality of members of a social graph that have a social relation with a mission leader that initiated the online game requesting the plurality of members to join the crew for participating in completing the subtasks of the mission challenge receive response to the request feed from one or more of the plurality of members of the social graph determine skill set associated with each member of the social graph that responds to the request feed wherein the skill set is required to complete the subtasks of the challenge delegate a distinct subtask to each member of the crew that responds to the request feed by matching the skill set required for completing the subtask with the skill set of each crew member that responds to the request monitor and manage progression of the challenge based on progression made in the subtasks delegated to the members of the crew and update status of the mission challenge shared with members of the crew based on the progression made by each crew member of the crew wherein the update includes updating local and global game state of each member of the crew and the game state of the online game.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium having program instructions for implementing a method for creating a crew to participate in a mission challenge in an online game is disclosed. The program instructions include program instructions for identifying quests to complete the mission challenge or simply challenge . Each identified quest includes a plurality of tasks and each task includes a plurality of subtasks. The computer readable medium further includes program instructions for sending a request feed to a plurality of members of a social graph requesting the plurality of members of the social graph to join the crew for participating in the completion of the subtasks of the mission challenge. The plurality of members in the social graph have a social relation with a user initiating the online game wherein the user is a mission leader managing the mission challenge. The computer readable medium includes program instructions to determine skill set of each member of the social graph that responded to the request feed. The skill set is required for completing the one or more subtasks of the mission challenge. The computer readable medium includes program instructions to delegate distinct subtask to each member of the social graph that responded to the request feed by matching the skill set required for completing the subtask with the skill set of each crew member that responded to the request. The delegation enables each crew member of the crew to execute subtasks independent of other members of the crew. The computer readable medium further includes program instructions for monitoring and managing progression of the challenge based on progression made in the subtasks delegated to the members of the crew and program instructions for updating status of the mission challenge based on the progression made by individual members of the crew and sharing the updated status of the challenge with members of the crew.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations and structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

The following embodiments describe methods systems and computer programs for creating a crew to participate in a mission challenge and complete quests in an online social game. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

In order to initiate an online social game a user may access a webpage either directly or through an online social network. illustrates an embodiment of a web page for initiating and playing of an online game. A web page is a structured document or resource of information that is suitable for a computer network such as the World Wide Web the Internet or an Intranet. A web page is identified by a unique Uniform Resource Locator URL and may be accessed through a web browser and displayed on the screen of a network device. Some web pages are dynamic and are constructed at the time the web page is requested by a network user. As a result the actual content included in dynamic web pages may vary over time. In addition web pages may include multimedia content e.g. image video or audio or embedded references thereto as well as text content.

Web page is one embodiment of a page designed for playing games online via web browsers. In this embodiment the web page presents a list of games for selection by the player as well as a list of featured popular games . In one embodiment the game is played in game area as an embedded component that may use any technology for presenting multimedia dynamic content such as Hyper Text Markup Language 5 HTML5 AdobeFlash etc.

Adobe Flash formerly known as Macromedia Flash is a multimedia platform for adding animation and interactivity to web pages. A Flash component e.g. game area may be embedded in a web page e.g. web page to create animation advertisements or games and to integrate video into the web page. Adobe Flash can manipulate vector and raster graphics and support bidirectional streaming of audio and video. In one embodiment Adobe Flash libraries are used with the Extensible Markup Language XML capabilities of the web browsers to render rich content in the browsers. This technology is known as Asynchronous Flash and XML.

Another technology for displaying dynamic content in a web page is HTML5. HTML5 s features include media playback and offline storage. With HTML4 a predecessor version to HTML5 sites had to reach for Adobe Flash or Silverlight to show a video or play music. However HTML5 lets sites directly embed media using HTML tags e.g. and and plugins are not required.

In one embodiment games include objects such as characters rewards in the form of currencies tools decorations assets social relations etc. For example in a war game the characters may be the soldiers fighting on respective sides of the war. In addition there may be weapons e.g. spears guns swords wand etc. used by the soldiers and objects around the battlefield e.g. buildings trees animals mountains rivers and so on . Each game object may be defined according to a predetermined syntax. For example the definition of a game object may include shape texture physical capabilities connection or relationship with other game objects etc.

In another embodiment a game application is embedded in a web page e.g. web page and the players play the game via web browsers. The display of a game is sometimes referred to as the stage of the game. Thus the stage of the game may be implemented as Adobe Flash or HTML5 component embedded in the web page. For example the stage is essentially a data structure that defines some of the basic elements of the game such as aspect ratio and display size. At any given time a game scene may be rendered and displayed on the stage by attaching one or more game objects to the stage.

As the player advances in the game the player acquires assets which can take multiple forms. In one embodiment assets include virtual currency asset wood asset food asset energy asset sheep asset haystack asset dancing bear asset badges badge collections temporally tiered levels bonuses promotions penalties digital content e.g. image files icons audio files video files gifts tokens honor title rewards invitation permissions avatars rally points diaries footprints trophies competitions engagement modes user difficulty modes e.g. novice intermediate expert stars medals gems pets exploration quests etc. Each asset can be used for one or more purposes. For example virtual currency can be used during the game to make progress in the online game also referred to herein as advancement. The virtual currency can be used to acquire other assets e.g. animals fertilizers crops to remove an obstacle in the game e.g. removing blocks hurdles that affect hinder progress or to complete a subtask or a task e.g. finish decorating a house . In some online games such as gambling games players may purchase assets such as virtual currency in exchange for legal currency. The legal currency is transferred using a credit debit or charge card transaction conveyed over a financial network. A player interacts with the game server such that the player or a character i.e. avatar controlled by the player plays an online game in hopes of increasing the assets such as amount of virtual currency.

As mentioned with reference to the online game includes quests which identify one or more tasks missions. Each task mission includes subtasks that the player must complete before the task mission is considered satisfied or finished. Upon completion of each subtask the player is rewarded in some fashion such as being provided with a new asset increasing the amount of energy or an asset getting more virtual currency etc. As the player successfully completes subtasks missions and quests the value of one or more assets and the game score are increased and as the game score increases the experience level may also increase.

In one embodiment the avatar of the player is activated i.e. unlocked and given an amount of energy as the game starts. Each action that the avatar performs consumes some amount of energy. Once the energy runs out the avatar cannot perform some of the game actions. The amount of energy may be replenished periodically or can be increased by trading virtual currency for energy by consuming food or as a bonus obtained during game play.

Clicking on inventory icon causes the online game to display a list of all the items or assets owned by the player. In addition clicking on marketplace icon takes the player to a virtual marketplace where assets can be acquired. Assets can be from within different categories such as crops trees animals buildings decorations energy special items weapons etc. Each category includes a plurality of assets within the category. For example the animal category includes ducks chickens goats sheep pigs etc. Some of the items within a category can be freely acquired by the player while purchasing of some items can be blocked until certain game condition is met such as reaching some score finishing a mission completing a certain level purchasing the ability to unblock the blocked item etc.

In one embodiment avatar might be personalized by the player i.e. the avatar is defined by a personal expression configured by the player. The personal expression may include type of skin hair color mouth eyes gender age clothing etc. In one embodiment the personal expression can be enhanced by acquiring personal expression assets such as fancy clothing e.g. shoes suits hats . Acquisition of personal expression items is made with virtual currency in one embodiment.

In one embodiment the online game is an online social game which leverages social relationships between the player and other online game players socially linked to the player. For example the player might add a neighbor or a crew member to the game by inviting a friend from a social networking site. There are many types of online social networks run and maintained by various companies and any one of these companies can provide access to social graph data. One such company without limitation to others may include Facebook. Once a friend accepts being a neighbor or a crew member a social relationship is established in the game where the game played by the player and the game played by the neighbor or crew member can interact with each other. For example the player might visit the home of the neighbor or crew member and perform some game activities therein and will be rewarded accordingly. Some of the missions in the game might include social activities that promote the interaction between players. For example one task mission might include planting tomatoes in the neighbor s farm. In another example a task mission might include collecting tomatoes or medicine in the trail. Therefore the social interaction can provide advancement for the player for the neighbor and for the crew member.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different assets missions social interactions etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In some implementations a player of a multi player online game e.g. player A may play online games with his friends e.g. player Q and player R . Similarly player P may have friends player J and player K which means that player P may play online games with players J and K. In some embodiments a plurality of gaming servers also referred to as host execute the gaming application for the friend groups e.g. A Q R and P J K . In the embodiment of gaming servers and host the player groups.

Players within a single friend group may be hosted by different gaming servers while playing the same game with each other or may be hosted by the same gaming server. In one scenario players A Q and R are playing the same game with each other. Initially gaming server hosts player A and gaming server hosts players Q and R. However during game play player A may be moved to gaming server so the three players A Q and R are hosted by the same gaming server.

In some implementations a gaming server e.g. may host players from a plurality of player groups. For example gaming server may be hosting player A from group A Q R and players P J and K from group P J K. The gaming server performs computations necessary to provide gaming services for each of the hosted players and provides responses to various queries provided by the hosted players. In some embodiments a hosted player may observe gaming server response times for each of the user s queries that are dependent on the number of players hosted by the gaming server when the player presents the queries to the gaming server.

In one embodiment a gaming server may identify an overloaded gaming server. In the scenario of gaming server is overloaded while hosting players A P J and K. The gaming platform may transfer one or more players hosted by the overloaded gaming server to other gaming servers so as to reduce the load experienced by the currently overloaded gaming server. For example player A is transferred from gaming server to gaming server . In one embodiment players may be transferred based on the social network and online behavioral activities of the user. For example player A is identified as a transfer candidate to gaming server based on player A s friendship with players Q and R already hosted by gaming server or based on the observation that player A s gaming times overlap with those of players Q and R already hosted by gaming server

When a player provides an input into the player s client device the client device may in response send a message via the communications network to the social networking server. The social networking server may update the player profile save the message to a database send messages to other players etc. The social gaming network may include a social graph database which stores player relationships social player profiles player messages and player social data.

The gaming servers host one or more gaming applications and perform the computations necessary to provide the gaming features to the players and clients. One or more gaming realm databases e.g. store data related to the gaming services such as the gaming applications and modules virtual gaming environment realm data including game state player gaming session data including player asset state player status player scores player virtual gaming profiles game stage levels etc. The gaming servers may utilize the data from the gaming realm databases to perform the computations related to providing gaming services for the players. In some implementations a server load database stores gaming server load statistics such as computational load server responses times etc. The social gaming network may include a load balancing server .

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data might include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

With the general understanding of the web page to activate an online game game stage game management architecture social gaming network architecture and online game infrastructure embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the remaining figures. illustrates a sample structure of a social graph of a user who initiates an online social game. The social graph of a user includes a circle of friends and each friend in the circle has his her own circle of friends. In one embodiment of the invention the social graph may be generated using information provided by one or more social networking sites such as Facebook Linkedin Yahoo Google etc. The social graph identifies friends that have a social relation with the user. Thus as illustrated in user A s social graph identifies user A s friends F F F F F and F with friend F having 5 friends friend having 3 friends etc. When user A initiates an online social game with a plurality of quests the information from the user A s social graph is dynamically obtained from a social networking site and a request feed is sent to the circle of friends of user A requesting for their assistance in completing the quests in the online game.

In addition as the player progresses through various levels additional incentives may be awarded in the form of rewards points gifts or unlocking additional challenging quests. For instance in an online social game such as FrontierVille from Zynga Inc. the assignee of the current application a quest may include Beaver Valley. The Beaver Valley quest may include a plurality of missions tasks. illustrate a list of mission tasks that need to be accomplished within the Beaver Valley quest. Thus for instance in the Beaver Valley quest missions tasks may include Clear the Campsite Trailside Stew Settin Up Camp etc. Clear the Campsite task may include subtasks such as collect wood for the fire collect rocks for the fire pit etc. Similarly the subtasks within the task Settin Up Camp may include feed yer critters pitch yer tent etc. It should be noted that the list of missions illustrated in are exemplary and are provided for general understanding of the invention. Consequently the list of missions of should not be considered restrictive.

Each subtask identifies a specific focus that requires a specific skill set from the player or user. For instance the collect wood and collect rocks subtasks may require the skill set of a carpenter feed yer critter subtask may require the skill set of a hunter etc. The quests tasks and subtasks described above with reference to are exemplary and is used for illustrative purposes. It should be noted that the quests tasks and subtasks may include fewer more or different types of quests tasks subtasks and each subtask may have different focus than what is illustrated.

As used herein skill set maybe be broadly understood to mean some knowledge level or understanding level of a task or some level of experience or use by a user. In some cases the level of understanding can be learned so even a beginner that just starts playing can be considered to have some skill set level while some users with more experience can be thought of having a larger skill set level. In one embodiment the skill set can be determined based on experience or amount of use or interaction with the game either in a present session or based on a sum of all past sessions. The skill set can also be computed numerically and the numeric value can be weighted based on user experience use habits rewards accumulated or amount of money spent during game sessions. The numeric value can in some cases be scaled down or up based on a number of factors. In one embodiment the skill set may be used as a gauge to rate user usage experience game loyalty past reward accumulation money spent on the game or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the skill set can be dynamically adjusted over time as users progress through game play and the skill set value or level can be saved to a server for future recall and use by the game execution engine.

Each of the subtasks and tasks may be performed by the player with the help of a crew. In some approaches for playing an online game the tasks and subtasks of the online game were accomplished by the player alone or with help from one or more neighbors. When the player plays alone the subtasks and tasks are completed slowly and the quest takes a long time to complete. When the player seeks the help of neighbors the online game progresses faster and the quests get completed faster than when the player worked alone. However in the case when neighbors help the player complete the subtasks and tasks the neighbors can only assist the player in a subtask or task that the player has currently started embarked. As a result the subtasks are completed sequentially as the player moves through the various tasks missions.

In order to complete the online game faster the player may seek and receive help from friends in his social graph. In the case when the player seeks recruits members from his social graph to be part of his crew and receives assistance in completing the missions in the online game from the members of his crew the subtasks and tasks are completed faster than when the player plays alone or seeks the help of neighbors. This is due to the fact that each of the subtasks are assigned and completed independent of one another. In one embodiment each crew member assigned a particular subtask may have a specific skill set for completing the assigned subtask. As a result the subtasks of the task mission are delegated to different members of the crew based on each member s skill set and the crew members finish the assigned subtasks in parallel resulting in faster completion of the mission and hence the quests that the player has embarked on in the online game. In another embodiment the crew members may not need or have the skill set to accomplish the subtasks. In this embodiment the crew members accomplish the assigned subtasks by following a task leader who has the specific skills. The task leader for instance may include a hunter a doctor a carpenter etc. For instance the hunter may possess the tools and capabilities to follow a prey and hunt or may possess the skill set requirements to wield the tools. Similarly the doctor may have the tool set knowledge to gather medicines and the carpenter may have the toolset knowledge capability to cut gather and stack wood and to collect recover parts from buildings objects.

In one embodiment based on the assigned skill e.g. hunter the game mechanics will assign the user s avatar with capabilities that are commensurate with the types of skills needed to complete the specific tasks. Once again the task leaders and the skill sets for accomplishing the subtasks are exemplary and are used for illustrative purposes.

When one or more friends respond to the request feed the friends are recruited or hired to become part of the player s crew. Thus in the example illustrated in upon activation of the online game by User A request feed to join the crew is sent to friends F F F F F and F. Friends F F and F responded to the request and are hired to be part of the User A s crew.

Each member of the crew is assigned a distinct subtask associated with a task of the online game. In one embodiment an algorithm associated with the social game is configured to monitor responses from friends and automatically assign subtasks within a task that needs to be accomplished in the online game to the friends in the order of receipt of the responses. The player in one embodiment may have the ability to override the automatic assignments of the algorithm by re assigning the subtasks based on the social relation of the player with specific crew members. Each subtask identifies a specific focus and may need specific skills tools levels or other game objects that a crew member owns to complete the subtask. The player therefore may reconfigure the automatic assignment done by the algorithm based on the skills tools of the crew members in order to ensure that the assigned subtasks can be completed successfully.

In one embodiment when each crew member joins the game the crew member s avatar may be unlocked so as to enable the crew members to interact with the trail leader and other members of the crew through interactions with the avatars. In addition to rendering the crew members for the online game the message board may also be configured to present the avatar of each crew member when the crew is created and when providing status of the respective crew member as illustrated in . In one embodiment the message board may be rendered using mission graphics to provide a status of the mission during the online game. In this embodiment the mission graphics provide a visual rendition of the status of the various missions in the online game and may use the avatars of the various crew members. illustrates an alternate embodiment wherein the message board renders the status of each member of the crew including rewards points awarded to the different members of the crew while each crew member is participating in completing the assigned task during the online game play.

In one embodiment a player begins the game play with all non player character NPCs roles related to a game play assigned to himself. In a game such as FrontierVille mentioned in this application the NPC roles may include a hunter a doctor and a carpenter. These NPC roles are exemplary and should not be considered restrictive. As mentioned earlier the player initiating the game play is the trail leader. The trail leader then sends out invitations for friends to join his trail crew using social graph through feeds and requests. As and when a friend accepts an invitation to join the crew an avatar for the friend is unlocked and the friend is assigned a specific subtask. The specific subtask may include assuming a specific NPC role within the game play so as to complete the subtasks assigned to the specific NPC role. Thus in FrontierVille the friend may be assigned to take on the NPC role of a hunter a carpenter or a doctor. The in game avatar of the friend i.e. crew member takes over the assigned NPC role and works toward completing the subtasks related to the assigned NPC role. In one embodiment rewards points are awarded to the friend for joining the crew and accepting the designated NPC role. At this time the friend does not have to perform any action unless he wants to. However incentives are provided for the crew member and the trail leader to encourage the crew member to visit the mission challenge i.e. trail of the trail leader and additional incentives are provided for the crew member and the trail leader to participate in completing the subtasks. The participation may be in the form of interactions with virtual world objects such as pile of wood etc. in the game play. The incentives may be in the form of rewards points rations energy and or resources. As the trail leader encourages and fills each of the NPC roles of the game play the trail leader may be awarded suitable rewards points. For instance as and when the trail leader fills an NPC role his ration meter i.e. energy capacity or resource or points may be increased a pre defined unit such as 5 units. The rewards provided to the crew member for participating in the game play may be different from the reward provided to the trail leader for recruiting the crew member. In one embodiment in addition to the initial awarding of the reward points the algorithm may also replenish the reward periodically or upon achieving specific levels amount of the game play so long as the NPC roles remain filled and the assigned crew member is actively participating in the game play. In one embodiment both the crew member and the task leader may be provided with appropriate incentives for continuing to encourage or actively participate in the online game. In one embodiment the crew members may be recruited from a community of users that are willing to participate in the game play such as a Trail Pardners community in the FrontierVille game instead of recruiting members from the trail leader s social graph. In this embodiment a community matchmaking feature may be used to match the crew members interest to the trail leader s game play.

Still referring to the algorithm may use the assignment of subtasks to crew members to update a local state of each crew member and of the game. The algorithm monitors the progression made by each crew member in accomplishing the assigned subtasks and updates the respective local states accordingly. In one embodiment the algorithm may have predefined points rewards for responding to a request from a player for embarking on an assigned subtask and for completing the subtask. In one embodiment of the invention the subtask and the online game progresses when a crew member visits i.e. accesses the online game with the subtask progressing faster as the number of visits by the crew member to the online game increases.

For instance in the Clear the Campsite mission in the online game FrontierVille when the crew member visits the online game during the progress of the mission the crew member is awarded certain predetermined rewards points and the same is credited to the crew member s local state. In another embodiment the subtask and the online game progresses when the crew member visits the online game and the crew member performs certain actions towards completion of the subtask. For instance for the same mission Clear the Campsite the game progresses when the crew member visits the online game during the mission and the user performs the action of clicking on a pile of wood cut and stacked by the carpenter. As the subtask progresses the crew member is awarded points rewards. In one embodiment the actions performed by a crew member are context sensitive. Consequently the actions on particular world objects may be associated with specific crew members in order for the subtask to be considered complete for awarding points rewards. For instance a pile of wood stacked by a carpenter may require interaction such as clicking by a crew member following the carpenter in order for the subtask to be considered as completed and points rewards awarded to the crew member and the player. In the same example if a crew member following a hunter clicks on the same or different pile of wood within the task or within the challenge no points are awarded to the crew member or the leader and the subtask may still show as incomplete.

The algorithm may compute the rewards for each crew member as a function of the activities performed by the crew member in relation to the assigned subtask and updates the local state of the crew member with the computed value. Thus as illustrated in when a friend responds to the request from a player and becomes part of the crew when the crew member performs the subtask and completes the subtask the algorithm monitors such activities and updates a local state of the friend i.e. crew member . In addition to monitoring the activities of the crew member the algorithm may also monitor inactivities of one or more crew members and update the local state of the corresponding crew members. The algorithm updates the local state of each crew member to reflect activity inactivity of the crew member in relation to the online game. The updates may include any one or combination of increase decrease in an asset value increase decrease in awards dynamic adjustment of the status adjustment of skill level and or adjustment of any other object or characteristic related to the crew member.

In addition to updating the respective crew member s local state the algorithm may also compute and update a local state of the player i.e. trail leader and local game state of the online game based on each crew member s activity inactivity in relation to the assigned subtasks. In one embodiment based on the crew members activities inactivities the player may be awarded a proportional amount of rewards points and such rewards points are updated to the local state of the player i.e. trail leader and of the online game. The local game state of each crew member player and of the online game in one embodiment may be stored in distinct databases as illustrated in by box or in a single database as illustrated in by box and updated periodically based on the progression made in the online game. The local game state of each crew member and of the player are used to update the corresponding global states of the crew members and the player. The global state of each crew member and player may be stored in one or more databases as illustrated by box in and of . The one or more global state databases may be stored in one or more game servers. As a result the updates to the global state of each crew member and player may be performed remotely using communication links.

Continuing to refer to the algorithm of the online game tracks the progression of each task crew member including player and the online game as a whole and renders the progression of each quest task crew member on the message board. The algorithm may use the local and or global state of the crew member player and the game to populate the message board to provide status of the online game. illustrate sample message board that is rendered providing status of the online game in one embodiment of the invention. illustrates the overall status of a game upon completion of a task mission in a quest of the online game. illustrates the local state of each crew member that identifies the progression made by each crew member. The message board is dynamically updated during the online game to provide up to date status of each crew member and each task of the online game.

In addition to rendering game state of the online game the message board may also be used for crew interaction. The message board may be used to leave messages by the trail leader to other crew members and for the crew members to leave messages to the trail leader or to other members of the crew. As illustrated in the trail leader leaves a welcome message and heaps rewards on a crew member for joining the trail leader s crew and for helping to contribute toward completion of the assigned subtasks. illustrates a sample message that the crew member leaves for his trail leader after completing the assigned task.

The message may be in the form of a status update or may be a gift request that the crew member expects from the trail leader for his contribution toward the progression of the online game. In order to enable a crew member to leave a gift request the algorithm may recognize completion of the assigned subtask and present a list of awards available for selection based on the state of the crew member and of the game and allows the crew member to choose the gift that the crew member would like from the trail leader. illustrates a sample message board that may be used for crew interaction such as chatting with other crew members etc.

Still referring to in one embodiment the algorithm tracks the activity of each crew member and adjusts the representation of the avatar of the respective crew member accordingly. For instance one or more expressions on the avatar may be adjusted to reflect the social relation of the crew member with the trail leader. When a crew member has become inactive and has not contributed to the progression of the assigned subtasks the expression of the avatar of the corresponding crew member is dynamically adjusted to indicate this inactivity. For example when a crew member has not visited the online game for an extended period of time the avatar of the crew member is adjusted by the algorithm to show a sleeping crew member as illustrated in

It should be noted in this example that the avatars of the other crew members who are actively participating in the assigned subtasks are left untouched. In the case where a crew member falls asleep and is slacking off the trail leader is provided with the ability to nudge the crew member to become active and contribute towards completion of the assigned subtasks. In one embodiment the algorithm provides a control to enable the trail leader to poke the avatar of the crew member and send a message through the message board to the slacking crew member to become more active and to help with the completion of the assigned subtask. A sample message accompanying the poking is illustrated in

In one embodiment when a crew member is non responsive and is not participating in the online game the algorithm provides the trail leader with a control to enable the trail leader to fire the non responsive crew member and a control to hire a new crew member to replace the non responsive crew member. Still referring to when the trail leader encounters a non active crew member who is slacking off the trail leader may nudge the crew member to become active. Even after repeated nudging if the crew member is still non responsive the trail leader may fire the crew member and replace him with a new crew member. Thus in one embodiment in addition to adjusting the expression on the non responsive crew member s avatar when a non responsive crew member is encountered the algorithm may activate a control button to fire the non responsive crew member. Additionally the algorithm may provide a control button to hire a new crew member. In one embodiment the algorithm may indicate the number of nudges that the trail leader has to perform or the amount of time that the trail leader needs to wait before firing the non responsive crew member. When the non responsive crew member is fired his her avatar is locked so that interactions with the avatar are suspended. Additionally the local and global states of the crew member are updated to reflect the firing and to prevent additional updates to the fired crew member s local and global states.

When a new crew member is to be hired to replace the fired crew member the algorithm may select one of the friends that had previously responded to the initial request feed but had not been hired during initial crew creation to become the new crew member. Alternately a new request feed may be sent out to the friends in the player s social graph and a new crew member hired based on the response to the request feed. In either case the new crew member is assigned the task that was originally assigned to the non responsive crew member so that the new crew member can pick up from where the fired crew member left off and complete the assigned subtasks. In response to the hiring of the crew member the avatar of the new crew member is unlocked to enable interaction with other crew members. Additionally the local global states of the new crew member the player and the game state are updated to reflect the hiring. Such changes may also be rendered on the message board when providing status of the online game.

The algorithm thus provides the ability for a trail leader to delegate subtasks within a mission to a plurality of crew members so that the missions can be completed in a fast and efficient manner. The algorithm also provides the trail leader with the ability to monitor and manage the progression of the subtasks assigned to different members of the crew nudge the non responsive crew members to become active and contribute toward completion of the assigned subtasks fire non responsive crew members and hire additional crew members to complete his her mission faster. As the crew members complete the subtasks in parallel the trail leader is able to complete the quest in record time.

With the faster completion of the quests additional levels may be unlocked thereby allowing the trail leader to take on higher challenges leading to greater user satisfaction. In addition expressions on the avatars of the crew members are updated to reflect the current state of the crew members and their social relation with the player i.e. trail boss in the online game. It should be noted that the algorithm used in the description of various embodiments is exemplary and should not be considered restrictive. As a result embodiments described herein for assembling the crew to complete tasks can also utilize the algorithms defined in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 079 775 filed Apr. 4 2011 entitled Apparatus Method and System for Crew Mechanics in Multiplayer Games which is incorporated herein by reference.

After assigning the subtasks to the crew members progression of each crew member in accomplishing the assigned tasks are monitored as illustrated in operation . The monitoring may include monitoring user interactions at the missions and sending out periodic messages encouraging crew members for having made or for making progress in the assigned subtasks. The monitoring may also include sending out reminders to crew members who are slacking and to encourage them to participate in completing the assigned subtasks. The status of the mission including various tasks and subtasks are updated periodically during the online game play as illustrated in operation . The updating of the status may be in response to user interactions or lack thereof detected at the various subtasks or may be performed periodically. Such updates are captured and stored in each crew member s local and global states the player s local and global states and the online game state. The local and game state may be rendered on a message board for sharing with members of the crew. The process of monitoring and updating would continue for the various quests in the online game so long as the player and the crew members are engaged in the online game.

The actions and interactions of the crew members towards completion of the assigned subtask are monitored as illustrated in operation . The monitoring tracks not only the actions interactions of crew members with other crew members but also tracks the lack of performance of one or more crew members. Information related to the creation of the crew and of the state of the online game are rendered on a message board and shared with the crew members as illustrated in operation . During monitoring when a particular crew member is found to be non responsive the avatar representation of the crew member is adjusted to reflect the social relation of the crew member with the player of the online game. Thus when a non responsive crew member is encountered expression of the avatar is adjusted to show a sleeping avatar.

The non responsive crew member is nudged to encourage the crew member to become active and contribute toward completion of the assigned subtask as illustrated in operation . In one embodiment a control is provided to enable nudging. The controls maybe be in the form of interactive menus or icons that may be selected by the user s avatar or by way of a cursor or selection pointer or a controller input device. The nudging may include poking the sleeping avatar of the non responsive crew member and or sending a reminder message to the non responsive crew member using the message board. The nudging of the avatar may result in the crew member becoming active and contributing to the completion of the assigned task. Alternately the nudging may not result in any response from the non responsive crew member. In such case the non responsive crew member may be fired and a new crew member may be hired to fill the non responsive crew member s spot in the online mission. The firing and hiring may be accomplished using available one or more controls.

The controls maybe be in the form of interactive menus or icons that may be selected by the user s avatar or by way of a cursor or selection pointer or a controller input device. The new crew member may be selected from the alternate crew members who responded to the initial request feed or a new request feed may be sent and the friend responding to the new request feed is hired to replace the fired crew member.

The status of the crew members and of the avatars are updated based on the actions interactions of the crew members in the online game as illustrated in operation . The updates include updating of the local state of each crew member and of the player who initiated the online game as well as the game state of each quest and task in the online game. The local state of the crew members the player and the online game also reflect the firing and hiring of the crew members. As a result the updating may include increase decrease in asset values or increase decrease in other object values associated with the crew members. The updates may be performed either periodically or in response to actions interactions of the crew members in the online game. The status of the online game including status of each task and subtask status of each crew member and of the player are updated on the message board and shared with the crew members.

The embodiments of the invention thus provide a tool to enable parallel execution of subtasks to monitor and update the status of the online game including any avatar representations of the crew members thereby providing a more personal and interactive gaming experience.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments of the invention may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments of the present invention can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

