---

title: Presenting data records based on binning and randomization
abstract: In one embodiment, data records associated with attributes are received. A check is made to determine whether the data records are greater than a maximum data record limit of a graph. Further, when the maximum number of data records in the bin is less than or equal to the maximum data record limit of the graph, the data records are retrieved and presented in the graph. When the data records are greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph, the data records are grouped into bins based on initial bin sizes corresponding to the plurality of attributes. Furthermore, weighted densities of the bins are determined using a maximum number of data records associated with a bin and a maximum data record limit of the bin. Further, the graph is rendered to present the weighted densities of the bins using a randomization technique to analyze the data records.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218677&OS=09218677&RS=09218677
owner: Business Objects Software Limited
number: 09218677
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20121106
---
Embodiments generally relate to data presentation and more particularly to methods and systems to present data in a visual form.

Data presentation such as data presentation in a graphical user interface GUI on a display device of a computer system facilitates a user in understanding and interpreting the data. Today s visualization technology includes visualization techniques where resolution limits the volume of data that can be viewed and the types of views that can be achieved. However it may not be feasible to legibly present a large volume of data records on the GUI.

Furthermore current data visualization techniques require the data records to be stored locally in the computer system in order to plot them with suitable graphical representations such as scatter graph lattice chart bar graphs and the like. However storing data records locally in the computer system in cases where data records are in large volume hampers the performance of the computer system in terms of memory and processing time complexity.

Embodiments of techniques to present data records based on binning and randomization are described herein. According to various embodiments the data records can be stored in a database associated with one or more business objects. Further the data records may be associated with a plurality of attributes. The data records can be but are not limited to alphabets numbers special characters and any combination thereof. According to one embodiment an approach for mining large databases is achieved. In this regard the data records are grouped into bins weighted densities of the bins are determined and then determined weighted densities are presented in a graph e.g. on computer generated graphical user interface GUI using a randomization technique. Further a user can drill down the graph by selecting desired bins to visualize the data records. Since the weighted densities of the bins are presented using the randomization technique the data record points are plotted on the GUI without fetching the entire data set locally but the data records are fetched on the fly as per user s analysis perspective viewpoint. Therefore the complexity to visualize large data records is reduced by reducing requirement of memory space and processing time.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment the way in which the data records are presented is determined by a factor e.g. a maximum data record limit of a graph resolution limit . The maximum data record limit of the graph defines an upper limit on the number of data records that can be legibly presented in the graph for a given resolution. In one exemplary embodiment the maximum data record limit of the graph is provided by a user based on whether the user desires to view a high level view of the data records or a granular view of the data records. In another exemplary embodiment the maximum data record limit of the graph can be automatically determined based on the screen e.g. graphical user interface GUI resolution of the display device . Further the graph is a visual representation of the relations between attributes which are associated with the data records plotted with reference to a set of axes. For example the graph can be but is not limited to a scatter graph a bubble plot a line chart a radar chart and a tree map.

In one embodiment when the data records are less than or equal to the maximum data record limit of the graph the data records are plotted on the GUI of the display device . However when the data records are greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph then the data records are binned weighted densities of the bins are determined and the determined weighted densities are presented using a randomization technique. In one embodiment the analyzer determines whether the data records are greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph.

In one embodiment the binning component groups the data records into one or more bins based on initial bin sizes corresponding to the plurality of attributes when the data records are greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph. The initial bin sizes define a number of data records in each bin. Further the binning component determines weighted densities of the bins using a maximum number of data records associated with a bin and a maximum data record limit of the bin. Binning of the data records and determining weighted densities are described in greater detail with an example in . Furthermore the randomization component renders the weighted densities of the bins on the graph using the randomization technique such as but not limited to a sampling technique and a simulation technique. Since the data records are grouped into bins and the bin s weighted densities are presented the large volume of data records can be visualized on the GUI legibly without fetching actual data records from the database . An exemplary rendered graph is described in .

In one embodiment the user can drill down to visualize granular view of the data records by selecting desired bin in the rendered graph. As the user selects a bin the range of data records associated with the selected bin is further passed to binning component to group the data records within that range into bins and to determine weighted densities of the bins. Further the weighted densities are presented on the graph. In one embodiment the user can drill down the bin until the user reaches either the maximum data record limit of the graph or when a bin size is reduced to one. In that case actual data records are retrieved from the database and plotted on the graph. Drilling down the bin to present data records is described with an example in .

Table 1 depicts example data records of the attributes wealth and income . However for describing the method of presenting a large volume of data records Table 1 is considered to include 103103 data records.

At step a check is made to determine whether the plurality of data records is greater than a maximum data record limit of a graph. In one exemplary embodiment the maximum data record limit of the graph is provided by a user based on whether the user desires to view a high level view of the data records or a granular view of the data records. In another exemplary embodiment the maximum data record limit of the graph can be automatically determined based on a screen capacity. For example the maximum data record limit of the graph is considered as 50000. At step when the data records is less than or equal to the maximum data record limit of the graph the data records are retrieved from a database and are plotted in the graph. In the example the received data records e.g. 103103 data records are greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph e.g. 50000 data records .

At step when the plurality of data records is greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph the data records are grouped into one or more bins based on initial bin sizes corresponding to the plurality of attributes A . In one embodiment the initial bin sizes BS are determined using minimum attribute values mV A and maximum attribute values MV A of the plurality of attributes and an initial number of bins N A . In one embodiment the initial bin size is proportional to the difference between the maximum attribute value and the minimum attribute value and inversely proportional to the initial number of bins. In one embodiment the initial bin size is as shown in Equation 1 . In one exemplary embodiment the user is provided an option to input the initial number of bins corresponding to the attribute. BS MV mV 1 1 

For example to determine the initial bin size of the attribute wealth the minimum attribute value e.g. 10 from Table 1 and the maximum attribute value e.g. 50 from Table 1 are considered. Further consider the initial number of bins corresponding to the wealth as 5. Therefore the initial bin size of the attribute wealth BS wealth is determined as shown in Equation 2 . BS wealth 50 10 5 1 9 2 

Similarly to determine the initial bin size of the attribute income the minimum attribute value e.g. 10 and the maximum attribute value e.g. 100 are considered. Further consider the initial number of bins corresponding to the income as 10. Therefore the initial bin size of the attribute income BS income is determined as shown in Equation 3 . BS income 100 10 10 1 10 3 

Therefore the data records having attribute wealth value as 10 is grouped in wealth bin 0 and attribute income value as 20 is grouped in income bin 1. Similarly the data records are grouped into the bins as depicted in Table 2. Further since there are 103103 data records the number of data records in each bin i.e. density of the bins is depicted in Table 2. Each bin represents the count i.e. number of data records within that range of data records and not the real data record.

At step weighted densities of the one or more bins are determined using a maximum number of data records associated with a bin and a maximum data record limit of the bin. In the example the maximum number of data records associated with the bin is 55000 e.g. wealth bin 4 and income bin 3 represented as 4 3 and the maximum data record limit of the bin MDL B is determined by a function of the maximum data record limit of the graph MDL G and a total number of bins in the graph TB G . In one embodiment the maximum data record limit of the bin is proportional to the maximum data record limit of the graph and inversely proportional to the total number of bins in the graph. In one embodiment the maximum data record limit of the bin is as shown in Equation 4 . MDL MDL TB 4 

Since the number of bins corresponding to the wealth and the income are considered as 5 and 10 respectively the total number of bins in the graph is 5 10 i.e. 50 bins. Further the maximum data record limit of the bin MDL B is determined as shown in Equation 5 . MDL 50000 50 1000 5 

Further the weighted densities of the bins are determined using Equation 6 . In one embodiment the weighted densities of the bin WD B is proportional to the number of data records in the bin ND B and the maximum data record limit of the bin MDL B and inversely proportional to the maximum number of data records associated with the bin MD B . WD ND MDL MD 6 

At step the weighted densities of the one or more bins are rendered in the graph using a randomization technique. In one exemplary embodiment the randomization technique includes a technique selected from a group consisting of a simulation technique and a sampling technique. In the simulation technique random points corresponding to the weighted densities of the bins are plotted in the graph as shown in . The simulation technique can be used if a database is a conventional database where data records are stored using a disk storage mechanism. illustrates an exemplary rendered graph using the simulation technique. For example the rendered graph is a scatter graph. The scatter graph or scatter chart or scatter diagram or two dimensional histogram or co occurrence matrix uses Cartesian coordinates to display data record points. In one exemplary embodiment the attributes are represented by a plurality of axes of the graph. The x axis of the scatter graph represents wealth and y axis of the scatter graph represents income .

In one embodiment the weighted densities as depicted in Table 3 are plotted in the scatter graph as a number of representative points in the bins e.g. 0 0 0 1 . . . 5 9 5 10 . Random points corresponding to the weighted densities of the bins are plotted in respective bins. Further colors shading or symbols may be used to represent the weighted densities of the bins. The bin 4 3 having highest weightage is represented with more dots compared to other bins. Similarly bin 3 2 having least weightage is represented with few dots. Further the bin 2 2 is empty as there are no data records in the database within that range. The advantage of using the simulation technique is without fetching the data records from an underlying database entire data record points can be analyzed.

In another exemplary embodiment the weighted densities can be represented on the graph using the sampling technique. In sampling technique instead of plotting random plots in the bins a random set of data records or a normalized data records e.g. data records associated with a regular interval are plotted in the graph. The sampling technique can be used if the database is an in memory database where the data records are stored in main physical memory of a computer system. The advantage of using the sampling technique is only a few data records are fetched from the underlying database and yet provides the view of the entire data records. Further the user can drill down the rendered graph to view data records associated with a bin which is described in greater detail in .

At step when the number of data records in the selected bin is less than or equal to the maximum data record limit of the graph the data records associated with the selected bin are retrieved and are presented in the graph. In the example the number of data records in the selected bin is less than the maximum data record limit of the graph. Therefore the actual data records are presented in the graph as shown in . illustrates an exemplary graph presenting data records of the selected bin. For example the graph is a scatter graph. The x axis of the scatter graph represents wealth and y axis of the scatter graph represents income . Further the data records in the selected bin 3 2 as depicted in Table 4 are plotted in the graph .

In another example bin 4 3 of is selected. The bin 4 3 includes 55000 data records which is greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph e.g. 50000 data records . At step when the number of data records in the selected bin is greater than the maximum data record limit of the graph data records associated with the selected bin are grouped into one or more bins based on bin sizes corresponding to the plurality of attributes. The bin size corresponding to the attributes are determined as follows. When an initial bin size of the attribute is greater than an initial number of bins corresponding to the attribute then the bin size of the attribute is equal to the initial bin size of the attribute. Further when the initial bin size of the attribute is less than or equal to the initial number of bins corresponding to the attribute number of bins corresponding to the attribute is equal to the initial bin size. Then the bin size is determined using the maximum attribute value minimum attribute value and the number of bins corresponding to the attribute. In one embodiment the bin size BS is proportional to the difference between the maximum attribute value MV A and the minimum attribute value mV A and inversely proportional to the number of bins corresponding to the attribute N A . BS MV mV 1 7 

For example to determine the bin size of the attribute wealth representing x axis of the graph the initial bin size e.g. 9 and the initial number of bins e.g. 5 corresponding to the attribute wealth is considered. Since the initial bin size e.g. 9 is greater than the initial number of bins e.g. 5 corresponding to the attribute wealth the bin size of the attribute wealth is equal to the initial bin size of the attribute weight e.g. 9 .

Further to determine the bin size of the attribute income representing y axis of the graph the initial bin size e.g. 10 and the initial number of bins e.g. 10 corresponding to the attribute income is considered. Since the initial bin size e.g. 10 is same as the initial number of bins e.g. 10 corresponding to the attribute income the number of bins corresponding to the attribute income is equal to the initial bin size of the attribute income e.g. 10 . Further the bin size of the attribute income BS income is determined using the Equation 7 by considering the minimum attribute value e.g. 40 and the maximum attribute value e.g. 49 of the selected bin 4 3 as shown in Equation 8 . BS income 49 40 10 1 2 8 

Further the data records associated with the selected bin 4 3 are grouped into bins based on the bin sizes corresponding to the attributes. At step weighted densities of the one or more bins are determined as described in . At step the weighted densities of the one or more bins are rendered in the graph using a randomization technique as described in . Further the user can drill down the bin until the user reaches either the maximum data record limit of the graph or the bin size is reduced to one to visualize the data records. In one embodiment at any instance user can go back and forth to analyze the data records. In other words the user can drill down the selected range and view the data records in minute detail and can come back to the macro view again. Thus the user can interact with the graph using the forward and backward actions and can view the frequency of data records in each level. Therefore in large data records visualization entire data is not copied locally to the system rather is distributed into bins with efficient binning logic and only the bins and the corresponding frequencies i.e. count are being brought to the system locally providing the macro and micro view of data.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface GUI . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data sources accessible through an established protocol such as Open Data Base Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the one or more embodiments as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

