---

title: Stream-independent sound to haptic effect conversion system
abstract: A haptic conversion system is provided that receives a plurality of audio streams of an audio signal. The haptic conversion system further determines, for each stream of the plurality of streams, whether at least one parameter of the one or more parameters indicates that the corresponding stream is to be converted into a haptic effect, and thus, identifies one or more streams that include at least one parameter that indicates the corresponding stream is to be converted into the haptic effect. The haptic conversion system further generates, for the identified streams, a haptic signal based on each corresponding stream. The haptic conversion system further sends, for the identified streams, each haptic signal to an actuator to generate a haptic effect.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092059&OS=09092059&RS=09092059
owner: Immersion Corporation
number: 09092059
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a device and more particularly to a device that produces haptic effects.

Haptics is a tactile and force feedback technology that takes advantage of a user s sense of touch by applying haptic feedback effects i.e. haptic effects such as forces vibrations and motions to the user. Devices such as mobile devices touchscreen devices and personal computers can be configured to generate haptic effects. In general calls to embedded hardware capable of generating haptic effects such as actuators can be programmed within an operating system OS of the device. These calls specify which haptic effect to play. For example when a user interacts with the device using for example a button touchscreen lever joystick wheel or some other control the OS of the device can send a play command through control circuitry to the embedded hardware. The embedded hardware then produces the appropriate haptic effect.

Such devices can also be configured to play audio data such as a digital audio signal. For example such devices can include applications configured to play video data such as a movie or video game that contains an audio portion or audio data such as a song. Similar to haptics calls to additional embedded hardware capable of generating audio effects such as speakers can be programmed within the OS of the device. Thus the OS of the device can send a play command through control circuitry to the additional embedded hardware where the additional embedded hardware then produces the appropriate audio effect.

One embodiment is a system that converts one or more streams of an audio signal into one or more haptic effects. The system receives a stream of the audio signal where the stream includes one or more parameters. The system further determines whether at least one parameter of the one or more parameters indicates that the stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. The system further generates a haptic signal based on the stream when the at least one parameter indicates that the stream is to be converted into the haptic effect. The system further sends the haptic signal to an actuator to generate the haptic effect when the at least one parameter indicates that the stream is to be converted into the haptic effect.

One embodiment is a haptic conversion system that can receive an audio signal that includes a plurality of audio streams identify which audio streams of the plurality of audio streams are to be converted into haptic effects based on one or more parameters included within each audio stream generate a haptic signal for each identified audio stream and play the generated haptic signals through one or more actuators to produce one or more haptic effects. The haptic conversion system can generate a haptic signal for only the identified audio streams and thus can provide stream independent control of haptic conversion. Thus by assigning one or more parameters to each audio stream of an audio signal a user of the haptic conversion system can turn on or turn off audio to haptic conversion for each audio stream of an audio signal. Further the haptic conversion system can configure each haptic signal generated for each individual audio stream based on the one or more parameters included within each audio stream. The configuring of each haptic signal can occur before during or after audio to haptic conversion. Therefore by assigning one or more parameters to each audio stream of the audio signal the user of the haptic conversion system can individually configure the audio to haptic conversion for each individual audio stream by individually configuring the haptic signal that is generated for the corresponding audio stream. In an embodiment where the generated signals are played through a plurality of actuators the one or more parameters can include at least one actuator parameter that can configure the generated signal to be played through one or more specified actuators.

A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by processor and may include both a volatile and nonvolatile medium a removable and non removable medium a communication medium and a storage medium. A communication medium may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any other form of an information delivery medium known in the art. A storage medium may include RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of a storage medium known in the art.

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system as well as the rest of a mobile device in one embodiment. The modules further include a stream independent haptic conversion module that converts one or more audio streams of an audio signal into one or more haptic signals that are used to produce one or more haptic effects as disclosed in more detail below. In certain embodiments stream independent haptic conversion module can comprise a plurality of modules where each individual module provides specific individual functionality for converting one or more audio streams of an audio signal into one or more haptic signals that are used to produce one or more haptic effects. System will typically include one or more additional application modules to include additional functionality such as various mobile applications available for mobile devices.

System in embodiments that transmit and or receive data from remote sources further includes a communication device such as a network interface card to provide mobile wireless network communication such as infrared radio Wi Fi or cellular network communication. In other embodiments communication device provides a wired network connection such as an Ethernet connection or a modem.

Processor is further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD for displaying a graphical representation or user interface to a user. The display may be a touch sensitive input device such as a touchscreen configured to send and receive signals from processor and may be a multi touch touchscreen.

System in one embodiment further includes an actuator . Processor may transmit a haptic signal associated with a generated haptic effect to actuator which in turn outputs haptic effects such as vibrotactile haptic effects. Actuator includes an actuator drive circuit. Actuator may be for example an electric motor an electro magnetic actuator a voice coil a shape memory alloy an electro active polymer a solenoid an eccentric rotating mass motor ERM a linear resonant actuator LRA a piezoelectric actuator a high bandwidth actuator an electroactive polymer EAP actuator an electrostatic friction display or an ultrasonic vibration generator. In alternate embodiments system can include one or more additional actuators in addition to actuator not illustrated in . In other embodiments a separate device from system includes an actuator that generates the haptic effects and haptic feedback system sends generated haptic effect signals to that device through communication device .

In some embodiments system further includes one or more speakers . Processor may transmit an audio signal to speaker which in turn outputs audio effects. Speaker may be for example a dynamic loudspeaker an electrodynamic loudspeaker a piezoelectric loudspeaker a magnetostrictive loudspeaker an electrostatic loudspeaker a ribbon and planar magnetic loudspeaker a bending wave loudspeaker a flat panel loudspeaker a heil air motion transducer a plasma arc speaker or a digital loudspeaker.

In certain embodiments the audio signal is a digital audio signal such as a pulse code modulation PCM audio signal where the PCM audio signal includes one or more PCM audio streams. In other embodiments the audio signal is a structure based audio signal such as a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI audio signal where the MIDI audio signal includes one or more MIDI audio streams. In yet other embodiments the audio signal is a frequency domain audio signal such as an MPEG 2 Audio Layer III MP3 audio signal where the MP3 audio signal includes one or more MP3 audio streams. In yet other embodiments the audio signal is another audio format having multiple audio streams that is known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Each audio stream of the audio signal can include one or more parameters. As is described below in greater detail the one or more parameters can be used by interface to customize processing of each audio stream of the audio signal. The one or more parameters can include a haptic conversion indication parameter. The haptic conversion indication parameter can indicate whether the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect as is described below in greater detail. The one or more parameters can also include one or more haptic parameters. The one or more haptic parameters can be used to configure a haptic signal that is generated based on the audio stream and thus can be used to configure the haptic effect that is generated based on the audio stream as is also described below in greater detail. The configuring of the haptic signal can occur before during or after the generation of the haptic signal. Each of the one or more haptic parameters can include a value where each value corresponds to each of the one or more haptic parameters. Examples of such haptic parameters include a strength parameter which can be used to configure a strength of a haptic signal a density parameter which can be used to configure a density of a haptic signal a magnitude parameter which can be used to configure a magnitude of a haptic signal a frequency parameter which can be used to configure a frequency of a haptic signal an actuator parameter which can be used to configure a haptic signal to be sent to one or more specified actuators or a fail safe parameter which can be used to indicate a fail safe operation to execute in a case of one or more invalid haptic parameters .

In the illustrated embodiment application sends the one or more audio streams of the audio signal to mobile platform audio architecture via interface . Mobile platform audio architecture is a module or a collection of modules configured to send the one or more audio streams of the audio signal to one or more speakers not illustrated in . Mobile platform audio architecture can include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that can provide functionality for streaming one or more audio streams of an audio signal to one or more speakers. In one embodiment mobile platform audio architecture is an Android AudioTrack module or collection of modules of an Android operating system for a mobile device. In this embodiment mobile platform audio architecture can include one or more AudioTrack APIs where each AudioTrack API can represent a different audio stream of an audio signal that application is configured to play and where each AudioTrack API can be called or executed in order to play the audio stream at one or more speakers. In the illustrated embodiment each AudioTrack API can be called by a corresponding API within interface as is described below in greater detail. When each AudioTrack API is called each AudioTrack API can be passed an audio stream of the audio signal played by application and each AudioTrack API can play the corresponding audio stream at one or more speakers. Thus in the illustrated embodiment mobile platform audio architecture receives the one or more audio streams of the audio signal sent by application and sends them to the one or more speakers.

Interface is a module or a collection of modules configured to extend mobile platform audio architecture and provide functionality for a determining which audio streams of the audio signal utilize audio to haptic conversion and b configuring audio to haptic conversion for each audio stream that utilizes audio to haptic conversion. According to the embodiment APIs within interface are at a higher level of abstraction than APIs within either mobile platform audio architecture or haptic conversion block . This is because an API within interface can call an API within mobile platform audio architecture and or an API within haptic conversion block based on one or more parameters included within an audio stream of an audio signal. In one embodiment interface can include one or more APIs identified as HapticTrack APIs where each HapticTrack API of interface can represent an audio stream of an audio signal that application is configured to play and where each HapticTrack API of interface corresponds to an API within mobile platform audio architecture such as an AudioTrack API . According to the embodiment each HapticTrack API can be called by application in order to play an audio stream at one or more speakers and potentially to convert the audio stream into a haptic signal and to play the haptic signal at one or more actuators not illustrated in to generate one or more haptic effects.

When application calls a HapticTrack API of interface according to one embodiment application passes an audio stream of the audio signal where the audio stream includes one or more parameters. One of the parameters can be a haptic conversion indication parameter. As previously described a haptic conversion indication parameter can indicate whether the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect.

According to the embodiment the HapticTrack API of interface can call the corresponding AudioTrack API of mobile platform audio architecture and pass the audio stream to the corresponding AudioTrack API. The AudioTrack API can then play the audio stream at one or more speakers as previously described. The HapticTrack API can also analyze the one or more parameters and determine whether the haptic conversion indication parameter includes a value that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. If the haptic conversion indication parameter does include a value that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect the HapticTrack API can call haptics conversion block to convert the audio stream into a haptic effect as is described below in greater detail. If the haptic conversion indication parameter does not include a value that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into the haptic effect the HapticTrack API does not call haptics conversion block and the audio stream is not converted into a haptic effect.

In certain embodiments interface is an interface that can be operably coupled to mobile platform audio architecture and that can determine if an audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. In some of these embodiments interface can also configure how the audio stream is to be converted into the haptic effect. In some of these embodiments the configuration can include determining which actuator to send a haptic signal that represents the haptic effect in order to generate the haptic effect.

Further in some embodiments interface can also perform error detection on the one or more parameters included within the audio stream. For example interface can determine whether one or more of the parameters are invalid e.g. one or more of the parameters includes a value that is invalid . Examples of an invalid value for a parameter can include a value for a strength parameter that is outside of a pre defined range or a value for an actuator parameter that represents a non existent actuator. In the scenario that interface determines that one or more of the parameters are invalid interface can execute a fail safe operation for converting the audio stream into a haptic effect. An example fail safe operation is to use a default audio to haptic conversion process. Another example fail safe operation is to automatically bypass any audio to haptic conversion of the audio stream. In one embodiment interface can select the fail safe operation to execute based on a fail safe parameter included within the audio stream.

Thus in one embodiment interface provides a comprehensive interpretation of one or more parameters included within an audio stream. According to the embodiment there can be a finite number of combinations of the one or more parameters and a different HapticTrack API can be called depending on a number and type of parameters included within the audio stream. Also in one embodiment the one or more parameters can be an extension of one or more audio parameters that can be sent to an AudioTrack API. Thus any audio stream including any combination of parameters that can be sent to an AudioTrack API can also be sent to a HapticTrack API. In one embodiment the one or more parameters can include one or more audio parameters and one or more additional parameters. In the embodiment interface can be responsible for interpreting the one or more parameters to determine one or more operations to be performed on the audio stream.

Haptics conversion block is a module or a collection of modules that is configured to receive an audio stream convert the audio stream into a haptic signal and play the haptic signal at one or more actuators to generate one or more haptic effects. Further details of the audio to haptic conversion processing performed by haptic conversion block are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 365 984 SOUND TO HAPTIC EFFECT CONVERSION SYSTEM USING AMPLITUDE VALUE the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein U.S. application Ser. No. 13 366 010 SOUND TO HAPTIC EFFECT CONVERSION SYSTEM USING WAVEFORM the disclosure of which is also incorporated by reference herein and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 439 241 SOUND TO HAPTIC EFFECT CONVERSION SYSTEM USING MULTIPLE ACTUATORS the disclosure of which is also incorporated by reference herein.

In certain embodiments haptic conversion block is only called for audio streams that include a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. In these embodiments because haptic conversion block is only called for each audio stream that includes a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect haptic conversion block only converts these specific audio streams into haptic signals that are subsequently played at one or more actuators. Any audio streams that do not include such a haptic conversion indication parameter or any audio streams that include a haptic conversion indication parameter but the haptic conversion indication parameter indicates that the audio stream is not to be converted into a haptic effect are not converted into haptic signals by haptic conversion block according to these embodiments. In other embodiments haptic conversion block can only be called for audio streams that include one or more parameters that either expressly or contextually indicate that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. By expressly indicating that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect the one or more parameters include specific values that indicate that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. By contextually indicating that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect the one or more parameters do not necessarily include specific values that indicate that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect but the presence of the one or more parameters implies that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect.

In certain embodiments a HapticTrack API of interface can further analyze the one or more parameters and determine whether the one or more parameters include one or more haptic parameters. In certain embodiments each of the one or more haptic parameters can include a value where each value corresponds to each of the one or more haptic parameters. If the one or more parameters do include one or more haptic parameters the HapticTrack API can use the one or more haptic parameters to configure a haptic signal that is generated by haptic conversion block . In certain embodiments the HapticTrack API can use the one or more values that correspond to the one or more haptic parameters to configure the haptic signal that is generated by haptic conversion block . The configuration of the haptic signal can thus configure the haptic effect that is generated at one or more actuators. For example if one of the haptic parameters is a strength parameter the HapticTrack API can configure a strength of the haptic signal generated by haptic conversion block based on the value of the strength parameter. This configuration can configure a strength of the corresponding haptic effect. As another example if one of the haptic parameters is a density parameter the HapticTrack API can configure a density of the haptic signal generated by haptic conversion block based on the value of the density parameter. This configuration can configure a density of the corresponding haptic effect. As yet another example if one of the haptic parameters is a magnitude parameter the HapticTrack API can configure a magnitude of the haptic signal generated by haptic conversion block based on the value of the magnitude parameter. This configuration can configure a magnitude of the corresponding haptic effect. As another example if one of the haptic parameters is a frequency parameter the HapticTrack API can configure a frequency of the haptic signal generated by the haptic conversion block based on the value of the frequency parameter. This configuration can configure a frequency of the corresponding haptic effect. As yet another example if one of the haptic parameters is an actuator parameter the HapticTrack API can configure the haptic signal generated by the haptic conversion block to be sent to one or more specific actuators based on the value of the actuator parameter. This configuration can configure the corresponding haptic effect by causing the corresponding haptic effect to be generated by the specific one or more actuators. In one embodiment the value of the actuator parameter can be an array of actuator indices where each actuator index represents a specific actuator of the one or more actuators. As yet another example if one of the haptic parameters is a fail safe parameter the HapticTrack API can configure the haptic signal based on a fail safe operation indicated by the fail safe parameter in the event that at least one of the haptic parameters is invalid. In some of these embodiments the HapticTrack API can configure the haptic signal before the haptic signal is generated by haptic conversion block . In these embodiments the HapticTrack API uses the values of the one or more parameters to configure the one or more characteristics used by haptic conversion block to generate the haptic signal. In some of these embodiments the audio stream can be manipulated so that the corresponding haptic signal will include characteristics requested by the one or more parameters. In other embodiments the HapticTrack API can configure the haptic signal while the haptic signal is being generated by haptic conversion block . In some of these embodiments while generating the haptic signal the one or more parameters are considered in generating a final haptic signal. In other embodiments the HapticTrack API can configure the haptic signal after the haptic signal is generated by haptic conversion block . In some of these embodiments after first generating the haptic signal the haptic signal can be manipulated so that it includes characteristics requested by the one or more parameters.

The configuration of haptic effects can be useful to a haptic effect developer who designs haptic effects that are to be played in conjunction with audio effects. For example a haptic effect developer that is developing haptic effects to be played within a computer game can signify an explosion within the computer game by causing one or more audio streams of an audio signal representing an explosion to include haptic parameters with maximum values so that the resulting haptic effect is strong. As another example a haptic effect developer can signify footsteps within the computer game by causing one or more audio streams of an audio signal representing the footsteps to include haptic parameters with reduced values so that the resulting haptic effect is different from the haptic effect that represents an explosion.

According to the embodiment interface receives a plurality of audio streams of an audio signal illustrated in as audio streams where each audio stream includes one or more parameters. In certain embodiments the audio signal is a digital audio signal such as a PCM audio signal and the plurality of audio streams of the PCM audio signal is a plurality of PCM audio streams. For each audio stream interface determines whether at least one parameter included within the audio stream is a haptic conversion indication parameter that includes a value that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. In certain embodiments interface makes this determination when the audio stream includes a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. In other embodiments interface makes this determination when the audio stream includes one or more parameters that either expressly or contextually indicate that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. By expressly indicating that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect the one or more parameters include specific values that indicate that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. By contextually indicating that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect the one or more parameters do not necessarily include specific values that indicate that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect but the presence of the one or more parameters implies that the audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect.

Thus interface identifies one or more audio streams that include a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. Interface subsequently sends these identified audio streams to audio to haptics module . According to the embodiment interface does not send the other audio streams i.e. the audio streams that do not include a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect or the audio streams that include a haptic conversion indication parameter but the haptic conversion indication parameter indicates that the audio stream is not to be converted into a haptic effect to audio to haptics module . Thus interface sets up audio to haptic module and instructs audio to haptic module on how to process the audio stream that interface sends to audio to haptic module .

In the illustrated embodiment three audio streams of audio streams as indicated by thicker lines illustrated in include a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. Further three other audio streams of audio streams do not include a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. Thus in the illustrated embodiment interface identifies the three audio streams of audio streams that include a haptic conversion indication parameter that indicates that the corresponding audio stream is to be converted into a haptic effect and only send those three audio streams to audio to haptics module . Further audio to haptics module only converts those three audio streams into haptic signals and audio to haptic module only sends three haptic signals to an actuator. However the illustrated embodiment is only an example embodiment interface can be configured to identify and send any number of audio streams to audio to haptics module and audio to haptics module can be configured to convert any number of audio streams to any number of haptic signals and send any number of haptic signals to any number of actuators.

Audio to haptics module is a module or a collection of modules that is configured to receive an audio stream convert the audio stream into a haptic signal and play the haptic signal at one or more actuators to generate one or more haptic effects. In some embodiments audio to haptics module is identical to haptic conversion block of . In the embodiment audio to haptics module is configured to receive the one or more audio streams from interface and generate a corresponding haptic signal for each audio stream. Audio to haptics module is further configured to send the one or more haptic signals to one or more actuators illustrated in as haptic signals where the one or more haptic signals are played at the one or more actuators to generate the one or more haptic effects. In certain embodiments for each audio stream that interface sends to audio to haptics module interface further configures the haptic signal generated by audio to haptics module based on the one or more parameters included within the corresponding audio stream. The configuration of the haptic signal can thus configure the haptic effect that is generated at one or more actuators.

For example if one of the haptic parameters is a strength parameter interface can configure a strength of the haptic signal generated by audio to haptics module based on the value of the strength parameter. This configuration can configure a strength of the corresponding haptic effect. As another example if one of the haptic parameters is a density parameter interface can configure a density of the haptic signal generated by audio to haptics module based on the value of the density parameter. This configuration can configure a density of the corresponding haptic effect. As yet another example if one of the haptic parameters is a magnitude parameter interface can configure a magnitude of the haptic signal generated by audio to haptics module based on the value of the magnitude parameter. This configuration can configure a magnitude of the corresponding haptic effect. As another example if one of the haptic parameters is a frequency parameter interface can configure a frequency of the haptic signal generated by audio to haptics module based on the value of the frequency parameter. As yet another example if one of the haptic parameters is an actuator parameter interface can configure the haptic signal generated by audio to haptics module to be sent to one or more specific actuators based on the value of the actuator parameter. In one embodiment the value of the actuator parameter can be an array of actuator indices where each actuator index represents a specific actuator of the one or more actuators. As yet another example if one of the haptic parameters is a fail safe parameter and if at least one of the haptic parameters is invalid the HapticTrack API can configure the haptic signal based on a fail safe operation indicated by the fail safe parameter. In some embodiments interface can configure the haptic signal before audio to haptics module generates the haptic signal. In these embodiments interface uses the values of the one or more parameters to configure the one or more characteristics used by audio to haptics module to generate the haptic signal. In some of these embodiments the audio stream can be manipulated so that the corresponding haptic signal will include characteristics requested by the one or more parameters. In some other embodiments interface can configure the haptic signal while audio to haptics module generates the haptic signal. In some of these embodiments while generating the haptic signal the one or more parameters are considered in generating the ultimate haptic signal. In some other embodiments interface can configure the haptic signal after audio to haptics module generates the haptic signal. In some of these embodiments after first generating the haptic signal the haptic signal can be manipulated so that it includes characteristics requested by the one or more parameters.

The flow begins and proceeds to . At a plurality of streams of an audio signal is received where each stream includes one or more parameters. In certain embodiments the one or more parameters can include a haptic conversion indication parameter where the haptic conversion indication parameter can indicate whether the stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. In some of these embodiments the one or more parameters can further include one or more haptic parameters. The one or more haptic parameters can be used to configure a haptic signal that is generated based on the stream and thus can be used to configure the haptic effect that is generated based on the stream. In some of these embodiments the one or more haptic parameters can include at least one of a strength parameter which can be used to configure a strength of a haptic signal a density parameter which can be used to configure a density of a haptic signal a magnitude parameter which can be used to configure a magnitude of a haptic signal a frequency parameter which can be used to configure a frequency of a haptic signal an actuator parameter which can be used to configure a haptic signal to be sent to one or more specified actuators or a fail safe parameter which can be used to indicate a fail safe operation to be executed in the case of one or more invalid parameters . The flow proceeds to .

At it is determined for each stream of the plurality of streams whether at least one parameter of the one or more parameters indicates that the corresponding stream is to be converted into a haptic effect. Therefore according to the embodiment one or more streams that include at least one parameter that indicates the corresponding stream is to be converted into the haptic effect are identified. The flow proceeds to .

At for only the identified streams a haptic signal is generated based on each corresponding stream. The flow proceeds to .

At for only the identified streams each haptic signal is configured based on the one or more parameters where the one or more parameters includes one or more haptic parameters. The configuring of each haptic signal can include configuring one or more characteristics of each haptic signal based on the one or more haptic parameters. In embodiments where one of the one or more haptic parameters is a strength parameter the configuring of each haptic signal can include configuring a strength of each haptic signal. In embodiments where one of the one or more haptic parameters is a density parameter the configuring of each haptic signal can include configuring a density of each haptic signal. In embodiments where one of the one or more haptic parameters is a magnitude parameter the configuring of each haptic signal can include configuring a magnitude of each haptic signal. In embodiments where one of the one or more haptic parameters is a frequency parameter the configuring of each haptic signal can include configuring a frequency of each haptic signal. In embodiments where one of the one or more haptic parameters is an actuator parameter the configuring of each haptic signal can include configuring each haptic signal to be sent to one or more specific actuators. In embodiments where one of the one or more haptic parameters is a fail safe parameter the configuring of each haptic signal can include executing a fail safe operation indicated by the fail safe parameter in the case of one or more invalid parameters. In certain embodiments the configuring of each haptic signal performed at can be performed before the generating of each haptic signal performed at . In other embodiments the configuring of each signal performed at can be performed during the generating of each haptic signal performed at . In other embodiments the configuring of each signal performed at can be performed after the generating of each haptic signal performed at . The flow proceeds to .

At for only the identified streams each haptic signal is sent to the actuator to generate a haptic effect. In certain embodiments for all streams each stream is also sent to a speaker to generate an audio effect regardless of whether the haptic conversion indication parameter of the stream indicates that the stream is to be converted into the haptic effect. The flow then ends.

In certain embodiments the audio signal is PCM audio signal where each stream of the PCM audio signal is a PCM audio stream. In other embodiments the audio signal is a MIDI audio signal where each stream of the MIDI audio signal is a MIDI audio stream. In yet other embodiments the audio signal is an MP3 audio signal where each stream of the MP3 audio signal is an MP3 audio stream.

Thus a haptic conversion system can be provided that applies an audio to haptic conversion for individual audio streams of an audio signal on a stream by stream basis. Such a haptic conversion system can allow a haptic effect developer to have more control over developing and designing a haptic experience for a user by allowing an audio to haptic conversion to be applied at a customizable level of granularity. Further the haptic conversion system can provide a mechanism for haptic effect developers to be able to allow users to control which audio streams should produce haptic signals. Thus customized haptic signals which can be enabled or disabled for individual audio streams can be produced from audio signals based on user preference where the haptic signals can be used to generate haptic effects.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of one embodiment some embodiments certain embodiment certain embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases one embodiment some embodiments a certain embodiment certain embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

