---

title: Noninvasive characterization of mechanical properties of materials and tissues using magnetic resonance techniques
abstract: Techniques include determining, non-invasively and without applying deformational stress, a nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation rate at a volume inside a subject. The method also includes determining a mechanical property of material at the volume inside the subject based on the nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348008&OS=09348008&RS=09348008
owner: University of Maryland, College Park
number: 09348008
owner_city: College Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120903
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 530 125 filed Sep. 1 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Number EB004416 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Many diseases alter the mechanical properties of a tissue. Accordingly the mechanical properties can serve as biomarkers for disease diagnosis and tumor assessment. While some larger diseased tissues or abnormalities near the surface of a patient can be detected by palpitation many are located deep within the patient or too small to identify. Some indications include liver fibrosis or other growths inside the thoracic cavity. A non invasive means for detecting mechanical properties of a patient would provide physicians with a reliable tool to diagnose and monitor diseased tissue.

Viscoelastic materials also called complex fluids exhibit the elastic properties of solids as well as the viscous flow characteristics of fluids in response to shearing stresses. The study of the mechanical properties of viscoelastic materials is known as rheology. Rheo NMR uses nuclear magnetic resonance NMR to measure the fluid flow response to deformational stresses.

Magnetic Resonance Elastography MRE is one non invasive method for detecting mechanical properties in a tissue in the field of Rheo NMR. MRE mechanically excites the tissue by introducing shear waves through ultrasound. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Images MRI of the propagation of the shear waves are taken. Specific mathematical algorithms are used to interpret the images and generate quantitative images depicting tissue stiffness. The mechanical excitation drastically complicates the imaging process in terms of hardware design imaging implementation and data analysis. MRE cannot be performed using a conventional medical MRI machine.

Applicants have determined that there is a need for elasticity imaging methods and systems that overcome the limitations of the methods described above. Techniques are provided for the non invasive measurement of mechanical properties of materials and tissues. Embodiments described herein utilize conventional magnetic resonance imaging and nuclear magnetic resonance techniques to detect and quantify the mechanical characteristics of a target without the need for externally applied stress such as deformation devices or ultrasound sources.

In one set of embodiments a method includes determining non invasively and without applying deformational stress a nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation rate at a volume inside a subject. The method also includes determining a mechanical property of material at the volume inside the subject based on the nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation rate.

In other sets of embodiments an apparatus or non transitory computer readable medium is configured to cause an apparatus to perform one or more steps of one or more of the above methods.

Among other applications embodiments may be used to identify diseased tissue differentiate diseased tissue from healthy tissue quantify the level of the disease and monitor the progression of disease over time. Embodiments may be employed before treatment begins concurrently during treatment or post treatment. Embodiments may also be used for the quantification of mechanical characteristics of materials for non medical purposes.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method and apparatus are described for the non invasive stress free characterization of mechanical properties of materials and tissues. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of certain gelatinous materials external to a living body. However the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments one or more mechanical properties of tissues or portions thereof internal to a living subject are determined non invasively and without changing deformational stresses applied to the living subject. In yet other embodiments the mechanical properties of materials internal to an inanimate subject are determined non invasively and without changing deformational stresses applied to the inanimate subject.

In the following various references are cited the full citations for which appear in a references section at the end of this description. The entire contents of each of these cited references are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein except for terminology that is inconsistent with that used herein.

Nuclear magnetic resonance NMR studies magnetic nuclei by aligning them with an applied constant magnetic field B and perturbing this alignment using an alternating magnetic field B orthogonal to the constant magnetic field. The resulting response to the perturbing magnetic field is the phenomenon that is exploited in magnetic resonance spectroscopy MRS and magnetic resonance imaging MRI .

The elementary particles neutrons and protons composing an atomic nucleus have the intrinsic quantum mechanical property of spin. The overall spin of the nucleus is determined by the spin quantum number I. If the number of both the protons and neutrons in a given isotope are even then I 0. In other cases however the overall spin is non zero. A non zero spin is associated with a non zero magnetic moment as given by Equation 1a. 1a where the proportionality constant is the gyromagnetic ratio. It is this magnetic moment that is exploited in NMR. For example nuclei that have a spin of one half like Hydrogen nuclei H a single proton have two possible spin states also referred to as up and down respectively . The energies of these states are the same. Hence the populations of the two states i.e. number of atoms in the two states will be approximately equal at thermal equilibrium. If a nucleus is placed in a magnetic field however the interaction between the nuclear magnetic moment and the external magnetic field means the two states no longer have the same energy. The energy difference between the two states is given by Equation 1b. 1b where is Planck s reduced constant. Resonant absorption will occur when electromagnetic radiation of the correct frequency to match this energy difference is applied. The energy of photons of electromagnetic radiation is given by Equation 2. 2 where f is the frequency of the electromagnetic radiation and h 2 . Thus absorption will occur when the frequency is given by Equation 3. 2 3 The NMR frequency f is shifted by the shielding effect of the surrounding electrons. In general this electronic shielding reduces the magnetic field at the nucleus which is what determines the NMR frequency . As a result the energy gap is reduced and the frequency required to achieve resonance is also reduced. This shift of the NMR frequency due to the chemical environment is called the chemical shift and it explains why NMR is a direct probe of chemical structure. The chemical shift in absolute terms is defined by the frequency of the resonance expressed with reference to a standard which is defined to be at 0. The scale is made more manageable by expressing it in parts per million ppm of the standard frequency.

Applying a short electromagnetic pulse in the radio frequency RF range to a set of nuclear spins simultaneously excites all the NMR transitions. In terms of the net magnetization vector this corresponds to tilting the magnetization vector away from its equilibrium position aligned along the external magnetic field B . The out of equilibrium magnetization vector precesses about the external magnetic field at the NMR frequencies of the various spins. This oscillating magnetization induces a current in a nearby pickup coil acting as a radio frequency RF receiver creating an electrical signal oscillating at a combination of the NMR frequencies. A portion of this time domain signal intensity vs. time is known as the free induction decay FID and contains the sum of the NMR responses from all the excited spins. In order to obtain the frequency domain NMR spectrum intensity vs. frequency for magnetic resonance spectroscopy MRS and MRS imaging MRSI this time domain signal is Fourier transformed to a frequency domain signal. An example NMR spectrum for a volume element in a hydrogel material is describe below with reference to .

A typical NMR measurement does not substantially alter the system under study. The nuclear spins once promoted to the higher energy level quickly return to the lower energy level by some route. This process of returning to the pre experiment condition is called relaxation. The relaxation rate of a peak represents the time constant that indicates the rate of exponential decay of each peak over time. The relaxation rate is the reciprocal of the time called relaxation time it takes for a peak to reach 1 e of its initial height where e is the base of the natural logarithm. The relaxation rate for a component of the magnetic field parallel to the fixed field B the z component is called the spin lattice relaxation rate R. The relaxation rate for a transverse component of the magnetic field is called the spin spin relaxation rate R. The corresponding relaxation times are Tand T respectively.

If the relaxation is quick the peak areas reflect the number of contributing nuclei. If the relaxation is slow or the signal strength great enough and persistent enough nuclei are promoted to the higher energy spin state faster than they can leave it. Eventually the population excess of the lower energy level will be depleted and the two populations will become the same. This is called saturation. As the system begins to saturate the NMR signal will diminish in intensity and at full saturation will disappear.

The relaxation of nuclear spins is entirely due to interactions with the surroundings e.g. see Cavanagh et al. 1996 . Applicants have determined that nuclear spin relaxation rates have a significant repeatable dependency on the mechanical properties of the surrounding media. Such a relationship is valuable because it allows noninvasive evaluation of mechanical properties using magnetic resonance techniques such as NMR and MRI. Specifically significant relationships are determined between nuclear spin relaxation rates and elastic modulus in various materials with elastic modulus properties similar to those of human tissue.

The mechanical properties of viscoelastic materials such as organic tissue are characterized by the elastic modulus G and viscous modulus G which together gives the shear modulus G according to Equation 4 e.g. see Morrison 2001 . 4 .

Surprisingly significant repeatable relationships were observed when relaxation rates of diffusants unincorporated molecules in hydrogels are plotted against the shear modulus of the hydrogel. Hydrogels are viscoelastic materials with many natural e.g. collagen and manmade e.g. contact lenses examples. Hydrogels have mechanical properties similar to various mammalian tissues. Both the spin lattice and spin spin relaxation rates R and R respectively display a significant dependency on G. This dependency is also valid for G and G . The spin spin relaxation rate R is several times more sensitive to mechanical properties as is shown below and is recommended in some embodiments. This result is surprising not only because of its simplicity but also because R and R of the diffusants are measured without applying any force e.g. stress to the material.

Such relationships are useful in the detection or monitoring of disease. Table 1 shows the dependence of the elastic modulus G in kiloPascals kPa 1 kPa 10pascals 1 pascal Pa is one newton per square meter on healthy and diseased human tissues. Such variations are anticipated to lead to corresponding observable changes in relaxation rates.

NMR system may be any machine capable of performing conventional nuclear magnetic resonance. NMR system determines the nuclear magnetic resonance for each NMR system volume element in an NMR system volume . In some embodiments of non imaging nuclear magnetic resonance measurements the system volume and the system volume element are almost the same scale. In imaging systems such as a MRI system the system volume element is several orders of magnitude smaller than the system volume . Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging MRSI systems use a MSRI system volume element that is about an order of magnitude larger than the volume element in an MRI system.

Computer system such as computer system described below with reference to is configured to collect data from NMR system . According to an illustrated embodiment a process executing on computer system calculates one or more characterizations of the mechanical properties of the target material and optionally generates a stiffness intensity map with a resolution of one or more volume elements throughout the target material . Although process is depicted on the same computer system that receives the data from imaging system for purposes of illustration in various other embodiments process executes on a different computer in communication with computer system directly or indirectly via a communications or data network as described below with reference to .

In step calibration curves are determined that relate one or more relaxation rates to one or more mechanical properties. For example a calibration curve relates the R relaxation rate to the elastic modulus of liver tissue or surrogates for liver tissue. In some embodiments step includes making dynamic rheological measurements of sample material in various states of disorder along with measurements of one or more relaxation rates of one or more molecular elements in the material such as one or more mobile molecules called diffusants within the material. In various embodiments diffusants include peptides reference frequency standards and water among others. In some embodiments the calibration curves are based on rheological measurements and relaxation rates of a common molecule like water in a surrogate material like hydrogels of various bulk material properties to represent a wide range of different viscoelastic materials such as several different tissues in human organs. In such embodiments the relaxation rates of the common diffusant e.g. water is assumed to depend predominately on the shear or elastic modulus of the material regardless of the chemical makeup of the material. Thus in some embodiments separate calibration curves are not used for different tissues or organs of a human patient.

In some embodiments the mechanical values are derived by interpolating between points on the calibration curves. In other embodiments a simple functional form is fit to the data such as a linear or polynomial function or a log linear function and mechanical values are derived from the function form.

In some embodiments the calibration curves are predetermined and step involves simply receiving data indicating the calibration curves e.g. measured values statistical summaries of the measured values or functional forms . Any method may be used to receive the data indicating the calibration curves. For example in various embodiments the data is input manually by a user is retrieved from storage either on a local device or over a communication network from a remote device or is received in an unsolicited message or in a message received in response to a query message or some combination.

In step a subject is selected for NMR measurement. In various embodiments the subject is an inanimate object or a living being or a biological specimen such as a tissue sample or some combination. Any subject that includes a hydrophilic target material of interest may be selected so long as it can fit within the NMR measurement device.

In step a NMR measurement plan such as an imaging plan is developed. In some embodiments among other factors the imaging plan depends on the size shape and location of the target material in the subject . In various embodiments the target material can have any volume that is small enough to fit within the NMR system measurement volume and large enough to be resolved by the NMR system volume element . In certain embodiments the target material will include the entire subject. In other embodiments the target material will include only a portion of the subject such as one anatomical unit. For example an imaging plan may be created for a specific organ or localized area within a subject that is a human patient. In some embodiments the duration of the imaging process of the imaging plan depends on the size of the target material. In some embodiments the duration of imaging will last between about one minute and two hours. In other embodiments the duration of imaging will last between about 30 minutes and one hour. One having ordinary skill in the art would be able to select an optimal scan duration for a particular subject and target material.

In step the NMR measurement plan is carried out through the NMR system . NMR data is received by a computer in step . The data may be received during the measurement process or all of the data may be uploaded to the computer at the conclusion of the measurement process .

In step the relaxation rates of one or more mobile molecules diffusants in each volume resolved within the target material are determined. In some medical embodiments the spin lattice R or spin spin R relaxation rates of nuclei or both in each volume resolved in the target material nuclei are collected in step .

In step the desired mechanical characteristics of each volume in the target material are calculated using the methods described herein without changing stress applied to the subject e.g. with the subject in a rest posture. The mechanical characteristics of interest may include for example the shear modulus elastic modulus and viscous modulus alone or in some combination. In some embodiments step includes using calibration curves for each target material.

In some embodiments in step a map of values for one or more of the elastic shear or viscous moduli is generated and output for storage and subsequent display for a user or other analysis. In embodiment using MRI a stiffness intensity map may optionally be generated in step with each stiffness value based on some functional combination of the elastic shear or viscous moduli at each volume element .

In step the disorder state or change in disorder state is determined for the target material. For example it is determined whether a portion of a liver has changed from a healthy state to a fibrosis diseased state or a fibrosis diseased state has advanced or not based on current values of one or more mechanical properties of the liver or changes therein from previous measurements. Thus in some embodiments the actual values of the mechanical characteristics are determined based on tissue specific calibration curves.

In other embodiments relative mechanical characteristics are calculated compared to a baseline. For example derivations of mechanical properties of healthy tissue of one or more subjects or initial derivations of the same subject determine a baseline value and subsequent derivations of mechanical properties are determined relative to that baseline value e.g. an elastic modulus that is a particular percent more or less than the baseline value . In some instances a first baseline range is associated with healthy tissue and one or more different ranges are associated with varying degrees of pathological tissue based on prior experiments. The ranges enable a clinician to diagnose a diseased state of one or more resolved volumes in the target organ. In embodiments that use relative values of mechanical properties a generic calibration curve such as water in hydrogels is used in lieu of tissue specific calibration curves.

In step the subject is treated based on the disorder state or change in disorder state determined during step . For example the patient is treated for fibrosis of the liver determined by the increase in elastic modulus of volume elements in the liver tissue.

In step it is determined if there is another NMR measurement to be taken of the subject e.g. to determine a change in the target material mechanical properties. If so control passes back to step to measure the subject again. If not the process ends.

In one embodiment a class of shear responsive peptide hydrogels were formed to represent viscoelastic materials with wide variations in mechanical properties. In this work NMR spectroscopy is used to monitor diffusants inside hydrogels and dynamic rheometry is used to characterize the viscoelasticity of hydrogels. A surprisingly simple linear relationship is determined between nuclear spin relaxation rates of peptide diffusants and shear modulus in peptide hydrogels. In another embodiment a surprisingly simple log linear relationship is determined between nuclear spin relaxation rates of water and shear modulus in peptide hydrogels over an exceptionally wide range of shear modulus values. Such relationships are used as calibration curves in various embodiments.

Hydrogels were prepared using two decapeptides formyl OF OA OW amide OAW10 and formyl EF EA EW amide EAW10 which were synthesized on Rink amide MBHA resin by solid phase Fmoc protocol e.g. see Chan et al. 2000 . The N terminal of both peptides were formylated by 2 4 5 trichlorophenyl formate. The peptides are summarized in Table 2.

Analytical grade reagents and solvents were purchased from SIGMA ALDRICH INC. of St. Louis Mo. ALFA AESAR INC. of Ward Hill Mass. AMRESCO INC. of Solon Ohio and used without further purification. Rink amide MBHA resin for SPPS was purchased from CHEM IMPEX INC. of Wood Dale Ill. Fmoc protected amino acids were purchased from NOVABIOCHEM INC of Billerica Mass. Purifications of peptides were conducted on AGILENT of Santa Clara Calif. 1100 HPLC system with a VWD detector. Column AGILENTTMZORBAX 300SB C18 PrepHT 21.2 250 mm 7 micron particle size . Flow rate 5 mL min. Purity of peptides was verified on AGILENT 1100 HPLC with a DAD detector. Column AGILENTTMZORBAX 300SB C8 4.6 250 mm 5 micron particle size . Flow rate 1 mL min. Mass spectrometric analyses of the peptides were carried on FINNIGAN of San Jose Calif. LCQ mass spectrometer.

The crude peptide were cleaved by a TFA TIS HO cocktail trifluoroacetic acid 95 triisopropylsilane 2.5 water 2.5 for 3 hours and the side chain protect group were remove at the same time. Most TFA was removed by rotary evaporation and then the crude peptides were precipitated and washed twice by cold ethyl ether. The precipitation were dissolved in water and lyophilized to give white crude peptide powder.

Peptides were dissolved in PBS 50 mM NaHPO 100 mMNaCl pH 7.0 to form 10.0 mM stock solutions. The concentrations of the stock solutions were determined by ultraviolet UV absorption of the tryptophan residue in each peptide. The peptide stock solutions were pre equilibrated prior to experiments either at room temperature for 25 C. gelation or in cold room for 5 C. gelation . The NMR probe and rheometer geometry were pre equilibrated at the corresponding temperature as well.

Equal volumes of the peptide stock solutions were mixed and transferred into a 5 mm NMR tube. All samples contained 10 DO and about 17 M TSP trimethylsilyl 2 2 3 3 tetradeutero propionic acid as a chemical shift reference by definition plotted at 0.0 ppm in the H spectra e.g. peak in .

All NMR experiments were carried on a VARIANINOVA 500 spectrometer from VARIAN INC. Palo Alto Calif. NMR data acquisition started about 10 min after mixing the two peptide solutions. Proton signal intensity diffusion coefficient D relaxation times Tand T were measured in a sequential manner and repeated every hour until no noticeable further decrease in H signal intensity.

Pre saturated water suppression was applied in all experiments. Diffusion coefficients were measured by the BPP LED pulse sequence e.g. see Wu et al. 1995 . The inversion recovery e.g. see Vold et al. 1968 and CPMG e.g. see Meiboom et al. 1958 pulse sequences were used to measure the spin lattice and spin spin relaxation times Tand T respectively.

Similarly is a graph that depicts the additive nature of the signals in the initial gel ten minutes after mixture for a hydrogen proton in a CHportion at about 1.25 ppm based on the constitutive signals of the two peptides that form the gel. The horizontal axis is frequency shift in ppm and a vertical axis not shown is amplitude in arbitrary units. The EAW10 peptide has a CHportion signal shown by the bottom trace the OAW10 peptide has a CHportion signal shown by the middle trace and during initial gelation the mobile peptides have a CHportion signal shown by the top trace that is about equal to the sum of the two other traces indicating relatively few of the peptides are cross linked in the gel.

After the H NMR signals reached plateau a temperature switch experiment was conducted to form materials of very different mechanical properties. Such a range simulated mechanical property changes characterized by elastic modulus or shear modulus or both without a chemical change such as may occur in a disordered material like a diseased tissue. A gel initially formed at 25 C. was cooled to 5 C. and kept at 5 C. for 4 hr for NMR measurements. A gel initially formed at 5 C. was heated to 25 C. and kept at 25 C. for additional NMR measurements until a new plateau was reached. This NMR experiment is described in more detail below with reference to .

Dynamic rheometry DR measurements were performed to determine which NMR signals if any were dependent on the mechanical properties of the gels. This or a similar step is often part of determining a calibration curve as in step of the method described above. Dynamic rheological measurements were performed using a NOVA Rheometer REOLOGICAINSTRUMENTS INC. Lund Sweden with a sealed cell geometry and a simple in house built humidifier which prevents dehydration of the water based samples during prolonged measurements.

Time sweep measurements were conducted at 0.2 strain amplitude and 1 radian per second rad s angular frequency. Frequency sweep measurements were conducted at the respective temperatures with 0.2 strain amplitude while the frequency was varied from 0.01 to 100 rad s with 18 data points per frequency decade. and are graphs that illustrate example frequency sweep dynamic rheometry measurements of the hydrogels according to an embodiment. is a graph that shows the dynamic rheometry measurements for the gel formed at low temperature 5 C. while is a graph that shows the dynamic rheometry measurements for the gel formed at room temperature 25 C. . The horizontal axis in each graph indicates the angular frequency on a logarithmic scale that spans 4 orders of magnitude. The vertical axis in each graph indicates the elastic modulus G or viscous modulus G value in pascals on a logarithmic scale that spans 5 orders of magnitude.

Graph for the gel formed at low temperature shows the viscous modulus at the low temperature as frequency sweep trace and the viscous modulus when the gel is warmed to room temperature as frequency sweep trace . The two traces differ by less than a factor of two with greater difference at higher angular frequencies. Graph shows the elastic modulus at the low temperature as frequency sweep trace and the elastic modulus when the gel is warmed to room temperature as frequency sweep trace . The difference is about a factor of two with little change over the frequency range.

Similarly graph for the gel formed at room temperature shows the viscous modulus at room temperature as frequency sweep trace and the viscous modulus when the gel is cooled to 5 C. as frequency sweep trace . Graph shows the elastic modulus at room temperature as frequency sweep trace and the elastic modulus when the gel is cooled to 5 C. as frequency sweep trace .

All gels demonstrate very similar G and G vs. angular frequency profiles. Such frequency profiles are characteristic for viscoelastic solid like materials with G showing some signs of relaxation at higher frequencies around 100 rad sec especially for the gel formed at 5 C. . The G has very slight dependence on the angular frequency within the studied range from 0.01 to 100 rad sec confirming the formation of stable solid like hydrogel network with little or no mobility at time scales up to t 2 600 s i.e. up to the longest measurement duration

After the frequency sweep measurements a time sweep of 3 hr was performed on the gel at 0.2 strain amplitude 1 rad s frequency to confirm that the gel remains undisturbed by the frequency sweep. and are graphs and respectively that illustrates example time sweep measurements of viscoelastic properties of decapeptide hydrogels performed after frequency sweeps confirming the stability of the gels according to an embodiment. Each horizontal axis and respectively indicates time in hours. Each vertical axis and respectively indicates the elastic modulus G or viscous modulus G value in pascals on a logarithmic scale that spans 5 orders of magnitude. The top time sweep trace and respectively is elastic modulus and the bottom time sweep trace and respectively is viscous modulus. presents the measurements of the warmed gel formed at low temperature 5 C. 25 C. gel . presents the measurements of the cooled gel formed at room temperature 25 C. 5 C. gel .

Strain sweep measurements were then performed with a single integration cycle at 1 rad s angular frequency within the range of strain amplitudes from 0.1 to 100 with 23 data point per decade. and are graphs that illustrate example strain sweep measurements for hydrogels according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis indicates strain in percent on a logarithmic scale spanning three orders of magnitude and the vertical axis indicates measured shear modulus G in pascals on a logarithmic scale spanning five orders of magnitude. Recall that shear modulus G depends on the elastic modulus G and viscous modulus G as given by Equation 4 above. presents graph of the measurements of the gel formed at low temperature both at low temperature 5 C. as trace and warmed to room temperature 5 C. 25 C. gel as trace . presents graph of the measurements of the gel formed at room temperature both at room temperature 25 C. as trace and cooled 25 C. 5 C. gel as trace . The yield point for each trace and respectively is indicated by an arrow with a strain value in percent of 0.5 0.6 1.6 and 0.8 respectively.

The gel formed at 25 C. is much stronger than the gel formed at 5 C. in terms of 1.5 vs. 0.5 . Warming the 5 C. 25 C. gel results in an insignificant increase in from 0.5 to 0.6 while cooling down the 25 C. 5 C. gel makes the gel more brittle drops from 1.5 to 0.8 despite the fact that this gel has higher shear modulus.

Temperature switch measurements of dynamic rheometry were performed similar to the NMR studies described above. The gel formed at 25 C. was cooled down to 5 C. and the gel formed at 5 C. was heated up to 25 C. linear temperature gradient was 0.4 C. min for both cooling and heating . The changes in the viscoelastic properties of the materials were monitored by time sweep frequency sweep and strain sweep experiments with the same parameter settings as above during the temperature switch.

The hydrogen proton H signal centered at 1.27 ppm comes from the CHgroups in both peptides as shown in and is used to obtain gelation kinetic data. The peak intensity I H is proportional to the total concentration of mobile peptides. is a graph that illustrates example concentration of mobile unincorporated peptide in a hydrogel as a function of time according to an embodiment. The first data point represents the initial total peptide concentration of 10 milliMolar mM 1 mM 10Molar 10 centiMolar cM 1 cM 10Molar at both 25 C. and 5 C. Points give concentration of mobile peptides in the 5 C. gel and points give concentration of mobile peptides in the warmed 5 C. 25 C. gel. Points give concentration of mobile peptides in the 25 C. gel and points give concentration of mobile peptides in the cooled 25 C. 5 C. gel. After varying adjustment times each gel shows a plateau where the number of mobile peptides is stable over time.

In order to investigate the kinetics of gelation a bimolecular reaction model is used to describe this process as given by Equation 5.

At t 0 the total peptide concentration is C 10 mM . At time t the concentration of unincorporated mobile peptide is C t the concentration of each unincorporated module is 0.5C t due to the 1 1 molar ratio of the two peptides . Assuming at large t a portion of each peptide the concentration of which is 0.5C remains unincorporated and hence still contributes to the NMR signal intensity. Cis a constant under a given gelation condition C C 0 . Then the time rate of change of the concentration is given by Equation 6.

The results show that kat 25 C. is about 30 times as large as kat 5 C. At 25 C. about 4 0.4 mM of peptides remain mobile after 18 hours of gelation at 5 C. about 25 2.5 mM of peptides remain mobile after 26 hours of gelation. Thus at 25 C. gelation is not only faster but also has more peptides incorporated into the hydrogel matrix.

When the 5 C. gel is heated to 25 C. more peptides are immobilized into the hydrogel matrix 20 . In contrast when the 25 C. gel is cooled to 5 C. no peptides are released from the hydrogel matrix . This asymmetry between heating and cooling indicates these hydrogels are not equilibrium systems.

Diffusion coefficients of the peptides in solutions and in gels were measured by NMR spectroscopy using the H signals from CHand CH groups Table 4 . In all gels unincorporated peptides in hydrogels have the same diffusion coefficients as peptides in solutions. The results suggest that unincorporated peptides in hydrogels do not form clusters and can diffuse freely.

For hydrogels the numbers represent the average value and standard deviation in parentheses which is based on 10 data points except that for the 25 C. 5 C. gel which is based on 4 data points. The D Tand Tvalues were obtained from the H signal of the CHgroups in peptides. Using the H signal from the CH groups in peptides very similar D values are obtained D 5 C. gel 0.61 0.01 D 25 C. 5 C. gel 0.62 0.12 D 25 C. gel 1.07 0.12 D 5 C. 25 C. gel 1.14 0.04 all in 10m s. However CH groups give Tand Tvalues different from CHgroups as shown below with reference to As a result of gelation these NMR spectra had a poor signal to noise ratio which leads to a bigger standard deviation consequently.

The longitudinal and transverse relaxation times Tand T of the peptides were also measured by NMR spectroscopy Table 4 . Relaxation times satisfy the relationship of Equation 8 i 1 or 2 . 25 C. sol 5 C. sol 5 C. gel 5 C. 25 C. gel 25 C. gel 25 C. 5 C. gel 8 

In solutions relaxation times increase with temperature because peptides move faster at 25 C. their correlation times shorten and hence they have longer relaxation times e.g. T 25 C. sol T 5 C. sol . In hydrogels the mobile peptides interact with the hydrogel matrix and their relaxation times were shortened e.g. T sol T gel in all cases regardless of temperature. Such shortening has no direct correlation with temperature and depends on gelation history. For example T 5 C. gel T 25 C. 5 C. gel even though the two gels have the same temperature but different history. Similarly T 5 C. 25 C. gel T 25 C. gel . Thus gelation induced relaxation enhancement is not a temperature effect. In fact T 5 C. gel T 25 C. gel the opposite from what one would expect from a pure temperature effect.

Gelation was also monitored by dynamic rheometry which gives the elastic G viscous G and shear G moduli of the hydrogels as shown in . and are graphs and respectively that illustrate example mechanical properties during the gelation process monitored by dynamic rheometry according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis and respectively on each graph indicates time after mixture of the peptides in hours. The vertical axis and respectively indicates the value of the elastic or viscous modulus in pascals on a logarithmic scale spanning five orders of magnitude. The upper traces in each graph are the elastic modulus G the lower traces in each graph are the viscous modulus G . In traces and before a heating event at about 21 hours represent gelation at 5 C. 5 C. gel and traces and after the heating event represent a temperature switch to room temperature 5 C. 25 C. gel . In traces and before a cooling event at about 21 hours represent gelation at 25 C. 25 C. gel and traces and after the cooling event represent a temperature switch to colder temperature 25 C. 5 C. gel .

These data characterize gels with similar chemical composition but elastic modulus changes of about 3 orders of magnitude from about 30 pascals to about 50 000 pascals. Similarly these data characterize gels with similar chemical composition but viscous modulus changes of almost 3 orders of magnitude from about 5 pascals to about 3 000 pascals.

To explore the relationship between NMR relaxation rates R and R and mechanical properties of the hydrogels R and R of the diffusants unincorporated peptides and TSP were plotted vs. G G and G. A linear relationship was observed in all cases. As explained above this linear relationship is not the result of temperature effect.

The relaxation enhancement caused by G or G G is expressed by the linear relationship of Equation 9. 9 And parallels the paramagnetic relaxation enhancement caused by paramagnetic ions given by Equation 10. 0 10 where C is the concentration of paramagnetic ions. Hence Equation 9 amounts to an elastic relaxation enhancement . As ris called the paramagnetic relaxivity in M s bcan be called the elastic relaxivity in Pa s . Analogous to r r b bfor all three proton groups as shown in through .

According to the classic BPP Bloembergen Purcell Pound theory of NMR relaxation in solutions e.g. see Chan 2000 NMR relaxation rate R is linearly dependent on the correlation time of a molecule and it has been shown by Hill that the rotational component of has a linear dependency on the viscosity of the solution e.g. see Hill 1955 . However how this translates into a linear dependency of Ron G G and G in hydrogels remains to be clarified. It is anticipated that the slope of this linear dependency b reflects the strength of the interaction between the diffusants and the hydrogel matrix. This is supported by the observation that bfor the NMR standard TSP is much lower than bfor the peptides which are components of the hydrogel matrix. The fact that CHand CH groups have different bvalues suggests that different parts of the peptides interact differently with the hydrogel matrix.

The surprising significant repeatable relationship points to the possibility of non invasive and forceless mechanical characterizations of materials and tissues using NMR or MRI. The presented spin relaxivity based mechanical characterization combines the advantages of magnetic resonance elastography and rheo NMR which are non invasive with the advantage of passive microrheology which is forceless.

Of particular interest is water relaxation in soft tissues for its diagnostic value and use in standard high resolution NMR imaging MRI . Data have been collected to show that the spin spin relaxation rate constant R of water also increases with the elastic modulus G of hydrogels. In other words water also displays elastic relaxation enhancement.

Hydrogels of extended elastic modulus range were generated that increase from near zero to over 110 000 Pa. This range doubles the range of the hydrogels of and and covers the shear modulus ranges of diseased and normal tissues in the liver breast prostate muscle vocal fold kidney hypodermis lung and brain listed in Table 1. These hydrogels demonstrate the improved mechanical properties because they are co assembled from two oppositely charged undecapeptides carrying six charged amino acids each as opposed to five in the case of hydrogels of and . The amino acid sequences are given in Table 5.

In the horizontal axis indicates the natural logarithm of the elastic modulus values in pascals and the vertical axis indicates R values in s. Trace shows dependence of R relaxation rate on natural logarithm of the elastic modulus G . It is noted that plotted in this fashion a highly linear range is evident from about ln G 5 G 148 and greater. Furthermore the data show a well behaved relationship with little scatter down to the smallest values of the elastic modulus where ln G is about 3.5 G about 30 pascals .

Because magnetic resonance imaging MRI only measures water proton signal this result is especially advantageous. It implies that the stiffness of biomaterials and soft tissues can be assessed non invasively using MRI. In some embodiments the log linear relationship of is used as a calibration curve to determine relative elastic modulus of a target material in a subject.

A sequence of binary digits constitutes digital data that is used to represent a number or code for a character. A bus includes many parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus . A processor performs a set of operations on information. The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor constitute computer instructions.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for presenting images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit IC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. Carrier waves such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves travel through space without wires or cables. Signals include man made variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties of carrier waves. For wireless links the communications interface sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor except for transmission media.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term non transitory computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor except for carrier waves and other signals.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as application specific integrated circuit may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of a signal on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform one or more steps of a method described herein. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of one or more steps of the methods described herein.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. Throughout this specification and the claims unless the context requires otherwise the word comprise and its variations such as comprises and comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated item element or step or group of items elements or steps but not the exclusion of any other item element or step or group of items. elements or steps. Furthermore the indefinite article a or an is meant to indicate one or more of the item element or step modified by the article.

