---

title: Retrieving product information from embedded sensors via mobile device video analysis
abstract: A system for accessing product information from embedded sensors via mobile device video analysis is disclosed. The system includes a processing device configured for analyzing a video stream of the surrounding environment captured on a mobile device. At least one product that has one or more embedded sensors associated therewith is identified within the surrounding environment. The system retrieves information associated with the one or more products from the one or more embedded sensors. Information retrieved, or information derived from the information retrieved, from the embedded sensors is presented to the user via a display of the video stream on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09224166&OS=09224166&RS=09224166
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09224166
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 478 411 filed Apr. 22 2011 entitled Retrieving Product Information From Embedded Sensors Via Mobile Device Video Analysis the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional hardware and or software that provide features and functionality that are becoming increasingly more common and standardized. Such features and functionality include but are not limited to location determining functionality such as Global Positioning System GPS functionality hardware and or software for sensing operational conditions of the devices or even the ambient conditions in which the devices are located such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the software applications that control and operate the hardware. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality.

Previous application platforms analyze location data and compass direction data in combination with information related to the objects locations or other elements shown in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

However previous application platforms strictly utilizes GPS and compass data in order to create the reality browsing. They are incapable of actually identifying objects within a video stream. Furthermore they unable to search for predetermined objects in order to alert a user that a desired or undesired object is in the proximity.

Therefore a need exists to implement video analysis and present it to the user as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with accessing product information from embedded sensors.

The following presents a summary of certain embodiments of the present invention. This summary is not intended to be a comprehensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is not intended to identify all key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present certain concepts and elements of one or more embodiments in a summary form as a prelude to the more detailed description that follows.

Methods apparatuses systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using video analysis to process video streams and more specifically to access product information from embedded sensors and present information associated with the product to the user which information may be presented via AR or the like. The information presented may be information retrieved or obtained from the embedded sensors or it may be information compiled using the information retrieved or obtained from the embedded sensors. The methods apparatuses systems and computer program products may additionally provide for alerting the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. In one embodiment the user is presented with information pertaining to and or alerted to important or critical product information such as the depletion or expiration of a product that requires replacement or will require replacement in the near future or a requirement to obtain service for the product. In one embodiment the embedded sensors may provide information necessary or beneficial in order to present desired information to the user. In another embodiment through the use of vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features of a product referred to herein as attributes that can be recognized from the surrounding environment represented in the video stream and that can be identified and matched to stored data or data that can be accessed in real time collectively preexisting data in order to identify a product or information pertaining to the product or the user. In one embodiment the preexisting data may comprise customer financial behavior history customer credit score customer purchase power transaction history wish lists shopping lists to do task list vendor information contact information account information payment requirements and acceptable forms of payment etc. information regarding products and services e.g. costs availability etc. and or other financial information concerning the customer. In this regard embodiments of the present invention leverage institutional or proprietary financial data that is uniquely specific to a particular financial institution to provide information to users in connection with the video stream analysis.

To accomplish the foregoing and related objectives the embodiments of the present invention comprise the function and features hereinafter described. The following description and the referenced figures set forth a detailed description of the present invention including certain illustrative examples of the one or more embodiments. The functions and features described herein are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the present invention may be implemented and used and thus this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method is disclosed for accessing product information from embedded sensors. The method includes analyzing via a processing device a video stream representing the surrounding environment captured on a mobile device. The method further includes identifying one or more products within the video stream that has one or more embedded sensors associated therewith. Additionally the method includes retrieving information associated with the one or more products from the one or more embedded sensors. Finally the method includes presenting via a display of the video stream on the mobile device the information retrieved or obtained or information derived from the information retrieved or obtained from the one or more embedded sensors.

In one embodiment of the method the mobile device includes a camera capable of image and or video capture.

In one embodiment of the method the one or more embedded sensors emit a radio frequency signal. In yet other embodiments of the method the one or more embedded tags emit an other wave frequencies such as infrared or X ray.

Additionally in one embodiment of the method the mobile device is operated in the always on mode to continuously analyze the surrounding environment.

In one embodiment of the method the information presented is displayed as a virtual object overlaying a real time video stream of the surrounding environment. In one embodiment the virtual object is interactive.

In still another embodiment the method further includes alerting the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. Alerting the user may be accomplished by producing an audible sound vibration generating a Short Message Service or text message generating an email or combinations thereof. The important or critical information may include information regarding a product default or an impending product default. In one embodiment the product default is the depletion or expiration of the product requiring replacement. In another embodiment the product default is a mechanical default requiring maintenance or repair services.

In one embodiment of the method the one or more products is a food product. In another embodiment the one or more products is a household item such as a household appliance vehicle monitoring systems sensors in the handsets broadcasting the user s location for other friends to observe and or discover.

In one embodiment the method further includes presenting the user with an option to purchase the one or more products via the mobile device. In another embodiment the method further includes transmitting payment information via a wireless connection between the mobile device and a contactless payment terminal to purchase a product.

In one embodiment the method further includes transmitting financial data and or other user specific data to a financial institution.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system for accessing product information from embedded sensors is disclosed. The system includes a processing device configured for analyzing a video stream representing the surrounding environment captured on a mobile device. The processing device is further configured for identifying one or more products within the video stream that has one or more embedded sensors associated therewith. Additionally the processing device includes retrieving or obtaining information associated with the one or more products from the one or more embedded sensors. Finally the processing device is further configured for presenting via a display of the video stream on the mobile device the information retrieved or obtained from the one or more embedded sensors.

In one embodiment of the system the mobile device includes a camera capable of image and or video capture.

Additionally in one embodiment of the system the mobile device is operated in the always on mode to continuously analyze the surrounding environment.

In one embodiment of the system the information presented is displayed as a virtual object overlaying a real time video stream of the surrounding environment. In some such embodiments the virtual object is interactive.

In still another embodiment the system further includes alerting the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. Alerting the user may be accomplished by producing an audible sound vibration generating a Short Message Service or text message generating an email phone message or combinations thereof. The important or critical information may include information regarding a product default or an impending product default. In one embodiment of the system the product default is the depletion or expiration of the product requiring replacement. In another embodiment of the system the product default is a mechanical default requiring maintenance.

In one embodiment of the system the one or more products is a food product. In another embodiment the one or more products is a household item such as a household appliance.

Furthermore in one embodiment the system further includes presenting the user with an option to purchase the one or more products via the mobile device. In still a further embodiment the system further includes transmitting payment information via a wireless connection between the mobile device and a contactless payment terminal to purchase a product.

In another embodiment of the present invention a computer program product for accessing product information from embedded sensors includes a non transitory computer readable medium including one or more computer readable code portions configured for analyzing a video stream of the surrounding environment captured on a mobile device. The one or more computer readable code portions are further configured for identifying one or more products within the video stream that has one or more embedded sensors. Additionally the one or more computer readable code portions are further configured to retrieve or obtain information associated with the one or more products from the one or more embedded sensors. Finally the one or more computer readable code portions are further configured to present via a display of the video stream on the mobile device the information retrieved or information derived from the information retrieved from the one or more embedded sensors.

In one embodiment of the computer program product the mobile device includes a camera capable of image and or video capture.

In one embodiment of the computer program product the one or more embedded sensors emit a radio frequency signal or other light signal.

Additionally in one embodiment of the computer program product the mobile device is operated in the always on mode to continuously analyze the surrounding environment.

In one embodiment of the computer program product the information presented is displayed as a virtual object overlaying a real time video stream of the surrounding environment. In one embodiment the virtual object is interactive.

In still another embodiment of computer program product one or more computer readable code portions are further configured for alerting the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. Alerting the user may be accomplished by producing an audible sound vibration generating a Short Message Service or text message generating an email or combinations thereof. The important or critical information may include information regarding a product default or an impending product default. In one embodiment of the computer program product the product default is the depletion or expiration of the product requiring replacement. In another embodiment of the system the product default is a mechanical default requiring maintenance or repair services.

In one embodiment of the computer program product the one or more products is a food product. In another embodiment the one or more products is a household item such as a household appliance.

In one embodiment of the computer program product the one or more computer readable code portions if further configured to present the user with an option to purchase the one or more products via the mobile device. In still a further embodiment the system further includes transmitting payment information via a wireless connection between the mobile device and a contactless payment terminal to purchase a product.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein are directed to sensors associated with the product. A sensor may sense or read a product status. In this way a sensor may be any type of sensory device including but not limited to a tag RFID chip radio signal emitter or marker embedded in a customer product that may provide an indication as to the status of a product. The status of a product may include the amount of the product used by the customer. For example the status of a milk jug may be an indication as to how much milk is remaining in a container of milk stored in the customer s refrigerator. In some embodiments the terms sensor or sensors are intended to refer to a sensor working in conjunction with one or more other devices. For example in some embodiments one or more tags are disposed in on or proximate a product or other object and a sensor remote from tag reads the tag.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in one or more software modules also referred to herein as computer readable code portions executed by a processor or processing device and configured for performing certain functions or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of non transitory storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processing device such that the processing device can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processing device. Further in some embodiments the processing device and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processing device and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes or code portions and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions code or code portions on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both non transitory computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term financial institution refers to any organization in the business of moving investing or lending money dealing in financial instruments or providing financial services. This includes commercial banks thrifts federal and state savings banks savings and loan associations credit unions investment companies merchants insurance companies and the like.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using video analysis to process video streams and more specifically to access product information from embedded sensors and present information associated with the product to the user which information may be presented via AR or the like. The methods apparatus systems and computer program products may additionally provide for alerting the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. In one embodiment the user is presented with information pertaining to and or alerted to important or critical product information such as the depletion or expiration of a product that requires replacement or will require replacement in the near future. In one embodiment the embedded sensors may provide all of the necessary information in order to present desired information to the user. However in another embodiment through the use of vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features of a product referred to herein as attributes that can be recognized from the surrounding environment represented in the video stream can be identified and matched to stored data or data that can be accessed in real time collectively preexisting data . In one embodiment the preexisting data is specific to one or more financial institutions. For example the preexisting data may comprise customer financial behavior history customer credit score customer purchase power transaction history vendor information contact information account information payment requirements and acceptable forms of payment etc. information regarding products and services e.g. costs availability etc. and or other financial information concerning the customer. In this regard embodiments of the present invention leverage institutional or proprietary financial data that is uniquely specific to a particular financial institution to provide information to users in connection with the video stream analysis.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Thus embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or data stores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more data stores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access data stores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or data store local to the mobile device and or server as well as a data store remote from the mobile device and or server.

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server. In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a integrated circuit a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application an augmented reality AR presentation application described infra. in relation to a web browser application a Short Message Service SMS application an electronic mail i.e. email application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an object recognition experience in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture a video stream that includes an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing a video stream of the surrounding environment . The video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with an image capture device capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to an object recognition application that is either executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the object recognition application to identify specific objects . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object. For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby e.g. a tag or placard near the object . In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the object recognition data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For another example the mobile device may identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots including a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device and associated applications such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize facial recognition markers to identify a person and or utilize a separate marker such as the clothes the person is wearing to confirm the identification to the desired confidence level that the person is in fact the person the mobile device identified. For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechanism to determine the location of the user and or object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the AR presentation application is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . The indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable i.e. include an embedded link such that the user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator .

In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the indicator by any conventional means e.g. keystroke touch voice command or the like for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the indicator is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object e.g. just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernible behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent or an outline of the object such that the object remains discernible behind or enclosed by the indicator . In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the object recognition and AR presentation experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the indicator . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and an indicator associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one objects in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentation application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed indicators . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object . In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object . In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object . In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object . Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object . In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object . Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

In an exemplary embodiment the AR presentation application is capable of analyzing the surrounding environment in search of products with embedded sensors illustrates a high level flow diagram of a method for analyzing the surrounding environment in search of products with embedded sensors according to an embodiment of the invention.

At block a video stream of the surrounding environment is analyzed in search of at least one product with an embedded sensor. As used herein an embedded sensor is a device associated with a product in such a way that the sensors may monitor obtain collect emit and or indicate information about the product. In one embodiment the embedded sensors may include at least in part an RFID tag a chip a radio signal emitter an invisible marker etc. In another embodiment an embedded tag includes a nanosensor. For example the nanosensors or microsensors may be configured to measure acceleration conductivity electromagnetic field friction light movement quantity radiation sound stress temperature time vibration viscosity weight or some other measurable physical quantity or characteristic. The sensors may be capable of wireless transmission of such information either continuously or intermittently. In one embodiment the sensors may automatically transmit the information whereas in another embodiment the sensors may transmit the information in response to being interrogated. The information transmitted from an embedded sensor may include for instance defaults with the product. As used herein a default may be anything concerning the product that may lead to its replacement or maintenance. For instance a default may include a food product that has reached its expiration date i.e. replacement needed or a shortage in the circuitry of an electronic based product i.e. maintenance or repair services needed .

The mobile device may be capable of detecting or sensing embedded sensors within products. The detection may utilize any marker as described above in the identification of the product. However in one embodiment the only marker required for product identification is the embedded sensors. In such embodiments generally the embedded sensor emits a wireless signal which is detectable to the AR presentation application of the mobile device .

Block illustrates the step of identifying one or more products within the video stream that has one or more embedded sensors associated therewith. As the video stream is analyzed block the AR presentation application may detect an embedded sensors emitting a wireless signal e.g. an RF signal .

At block the mobile device retrieves the information associated with the products from the embedded sensors. In one embodiment the AR presentation application is capable of receiving information from multiple embedded sensors at once. For example a user may utilize the AR presentation application to scan the pantry or refrigerator for instance and receive information from a plurality of products at once. As noted above the information may include data concerning the products such that the user may determine what action needs to be taken e.g. product replacement .

At block the AR presentation application may present information to the user via the mobile device display of the video stream. For instance a indicator may be superimposed onto the video stream on the display of the mobile device . The indicator may be interactive. In one embodiment the indicator may include the information transmitted from the embedded sensors explicitly e.g. amount of product remaining expiration date etc. . However in one embodiment the AR presentation application may present information to the user that is derived from the information received from the embedded sensors. For example a user that utilizes the AR presentation application to analyze the products within a refrigerator may opt to have a shopping list automatically generated based on preset preferences that determine when certain products need to be replaced.

In one embodiment the mobile device is operated in the always on mode to continuously analyze the surrounding environment to detect product embedded sensors. Thus in one embodiment the user actively utilizes the mobile device in search of products with embedded sensors by viewing the mobile device display as the user pans around scanning for products. However in another embodiment the user passively utilizes the mobile device in search of predetermined objects. In such embodiments the mobile device may simply be affixed to or otherwise carried by the user and the mobile device simply scans the images captured in search of products with embedded sensors.

The mobile device may alert the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. As used herein important or critical information may be defined by the user but will generally include information concerning product defaults or impending product defaults. The user may opt to input preferences as to when to be alerted of an impending product default such as the quantity of product is approaching a predetermined threshold or the expiration date of a product is approaching. Similarly as noted above a product default may include something that is irregular with the product such as a power source malfunction a drop in efficiency hardware software malfunctions etc. The alert to the user may be one or more indicators that appear on the mobile device display . However when the AR presentation application is operated in a passive mode i.e. the user is not attentive to and watching the video stream being analyzed it is generally preferable that the alerts be of audible signals vibration of the mobile device Short Message Service text messages emails or the like which may identify the object provide access to an offer or direct the user to the video stream real time or recorded for access to the displayed indicators .

The product detectable to the AR presentation application will generally include any product that utilizes an embedded sensors capable of emitting a wireless signal. In one embodiment the product is a food product. In another embodiment the product is a household item such as a household appliance. In still further embodiments the product may be an automobile an electronic device a non food consumer product etc.

In a particular embodiment the indicator displayed to the user is interactive and may present the user with information regarding purchasing the product. For instance the information may include cost of replacement estimated time to failure nearest retailer stocking the product estimated delivery time etc. Additionally the user may be presented with the option to purchase the product. For instance the indicator displayed on the mobile device may include a link such as for example an internet hyperlink that gives the user the option to purchase the product.

As represented by block the user activates the AR presentation application of the mobile device . The AR presentation application may be operated in active mode or passive mode as discussed above. Once the mobile device loads the AR presentation application the mobile device initiates scanning of the environment to search for the products with embedded sensors as represented by block .

At block the mobile device then may identify a product within the surrounding environment . Upon identifying a product the mobile device alerts the user that the product has been identified as shown in block . The alert may be any way to bring the identification to the user s attention. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display may include an indicator and the mobile device may emit an audible sound and or vibration or other type of alert as discussed above.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate application and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server.

At block the mobile device may present information associated with the product to the user and as illustrated at block the user may receive the information associated with the object. The information displayed to the user may range from a simple identification of the object to a large amount of data associated with the object depending at least in part on the sophistication of the embedded sensors.

In a particular embodiment the information displayed to the user may include product purchasing information. In such embodiments the user may opt to purchase the product as shown in block . The user may opt to utilize any feasible means in purchasing the product. In some embodiments the business that sells the product may be capable of accepting online orders for the identified object via the Internet an intranet or other wireless connection utilizing the mobile device . In a particular embodiment the mobile device includes a mobile wallet and the business is capable of receiving payment vehicle data from the user s mobile device via a contactless payment terminal as discussed further below. Thus as illustrated at block the mobile device may transmit payment data for purchase of the product.

As represented by block a financial institution may monitor and record financial data and or video image analysis user data associated with the object identification. For instance the data the financial institution may record includes the amount of time the user reviewed the presented information whether the user was presented with an option to purchase whether the user purchased the product the price of the product the frequency in which the user utilizes the AR presentation application to identify and purchase objects etc. Such information may be beneficial to the financial institution in determining future business strategies.

The mobile device may be equipped to provide the user the ability to transmit payment information directly from the mobile device to a payment terminal in order to complete a purchase. Referring to a block diagram illustrating a contactless transaction environment configured for making a contactless transaction via a mobile device is shown. As illustrated the contactless transaction environment may include a mobile device operable by a user who may be a customer who wishes to make a contactless payment for the identified product. The contactless transaction environment may also include a contactless terminal that may be automated or may be operable by a cashier . The contactless terminal may permit a user to make a contactless payment with the mobile device .

Of course the environment may also include a contact terminal that may permit a user to make a payment via a contact transaction device such as a payment card that has a magnetic stripe which may be swiped through the contact terminal .

The contactless transaction environment may also include a workstation and a processing system that are in electronic communication with the contactless terminal via a network which may be the Internet an intranet or the like. The user interface situated on the contactless terminal may be any sort of device such as light emitting diodes LEDs for indicating that payment has been received invalid payment vehicle exceeded credit limit etc.

In the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or a global area network GAN . The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination of wireline and wireless communication between devices in the network. In some embodiments the network includes the Internet. In some embodiments the network may include a wireless telephone network.

As used with respect to the contactless terminal a communication interface may generally include a modem server transceiver and or other device for communicating with other devices on a network. The network communication interface may be a communication interface having one or more communication devices configured to communicate with one or more other devices in the contactless transaction environment such as the mobile device the workstation the processing system other processing systems data systems etc.

In one embodiment the transceiver interface is a separate module that may generally include a transceiver i.e. one or more antennas and or other electronic circuitry devices and software for receiving electronic payment vehicle data when the mobile device is held close to or tapped at the contactless terminal . In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term tap tapped tapping etc. may refer to bringing a mobile device close to or within the proximity of a payment terminal so that information can be communicated wirelessly between the mobile device and the payment terminal using short range wireless transmission technology such near field communication NFC technology radio frequency RF technology or the like. Tapping may include physically tapping the mobile device against an appropriate portion of the payment terminal or it may include only waving or holding the mobile device near an appropriate portion of the payment terminal without making physical contact with the payment terminal. In some embodiments the transceiver interface is part of the network communication interface . Furthermore the transceiver interface may also be used as an interface to send data to the mobile device when the mobile device is held close to or tapped at the contactless terminal .

An output device for the transceiver interface may include a display that provides instructions regarding the steps for making a contactless transaction. In some embodiments where the contactless terminal requests authentication such as a signature the display may also serve as a touchpad input device to input the user s signature via a stylus. Other output devices may include one or more LEDs or an audio speaker both which may indicate to the user that data has been successfully received from the mobile device . A printer that can print paper receipts may also be incorporated into the contactless terminal . Other embodiments of the contactless terminal may carry other input and output devices such as a mouse keyboard button touchpad touch screen microphone speaker light joystick switch or the like.

As used with respect to the contactless terminal a processing device may generally refer to a device or combination of devices having circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of a particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system may be allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may further include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer executable program code thereof which may be stored in a memory. As the phrase is used herein a processing device may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing particular computer executable program code embodied in computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function. The processing device may be configured to use the network communication interface and or the transceiver interface to transmit and or receive data and or commands to and or from the other devices that are visible in the contactless payment environment .

As used with respect to the contactless terminal a memory device may generally refer to a device or combination of devices that store one or more forms of computer readable media for storing data and or computer executable program code instructions. For example in one embodiment the memory device may include any computer memory that provides an actual or virtual space to temporarily or permanently store data and or commands provided to the processing device when it carries out its functions described herein. In one embodiment the memory device stores a transceiver application . The transceiver application may work in conjunction with the previously described transceiver interface to receive electronic payment vehicle data when the mobile device is held close to or tapped at the contactless terminal . In some embodiments the transceiver application may also be configured to send data to the mobile device when the mobile device is held close to or tapped at the payment terminal or potentially provide a power source to the mobile device in the event the primary power source is depleted.

As illustrated in a contactless terminal may be connected to a workstation via the network . The workstation may be used by the cashier or other personnel to interact with the contactless terminal . The workstation may include various features such as a network communication interface a processing device a user interface and a memory device.

As used with respect to the workstation a communication interface may generally include a modem server transceiver and or other device for communicating with other devices on a network. The network communication interface may be a communication interface having one or more communication devices configured to communicate with one or more other devices on the network such as the contactless terminal and or contact terminal the processing system other processing systems data systems etc.

As used with respect to the workstation a processing device may generally refer to a device or combination of devices having circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of a particular system as described above. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system may be allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may further include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer executable program code thereof which may be stored in a memory. As the phrase is used herein a processing device may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing particular computer executable program code embodied in computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function. The processing device may be configured to use a network communication interface and or the transceiver interface to transmit and or receive data and or commands to and or from the other devices that are visible in the network .

As used with respect to the workstation a user interface may generally include a plurality of interface devices and or software that allow a user to input commands and data to direct the processing device to execute instructions. For example the user interface may include a graphical user interface GUI or an interface to input computer executable instructions that direct the processing device to carry out specific functions. The user interface may employ certain input and output devices to input data received from the user or the cashier or output data to the user or the cashier . These input and output devices may include a display mouse keyboard button touchpad touch screen microphone speaker light joystick switch and or other customer input output device for communicating with one or more customers. As used with respect to the workstation a memory device may generally refer to a device or combination of devices that store one or more forms of computer readable media for storing data and or computer executable program code instructions. For example in one embodiment the memory device may include any computer memory that provides an actual or virtual space to temporarily or permanently store data and or commands provided to the processing device when it carries out its functions described herein.

As indicated above in some embodiments the user may opt to utilize the mobile device to wirelessly transmit payment vehicle data to a contactless terminal . Typically the payment vehicle data is stored within the mobile device or accessible externally through the network. This payment vehicle data is typically contained within a mobile wallet. In accordance with embodiments of the invention the phrase mobile wallet refers to the hardware and or software in a mobile device that enables the mobile device to be used to make contactless payments at a payment terminal. In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term payment vehicle may refer to an electronic payment vehicle such as an electronic credit or debit card. The payment vehicle may not be a card at all and may instead be account identifying information stored electronically in a mobile device such as in a cell phone.

Turning to one embodiment of a mobile wallet is illustrated. Importantly the mobile wallet of the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown in the figures. Indeed the manner in which the menu of payment vehicles is presented to the user or the type of additional information stored within the mobile wallet is not essential to the present invention.

As illustrated information contained within the mobile wallet and capable of being transmitted by the mobile device may include the payment vehicle type the unique payment vehicle account number associated with the payment vehicle the name associated with the payment vehicle the payment vehicle s expiration date the payment vehicle s security code whether the payment vehicle is credit or debit and the default payment vehicle for use in transactions.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using video analysis to process video streams and more specifically to access product information from embedded sensors and present information associated with the product to the user which information may be presented via AR or the like. The methods apparatuses systems and computer program products may additionally provide for alerting the user to important or critical information associated with one or more products. Many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile device users in connection with video stream analysis.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise. In this regard the term processor and processing device are terms that are intended to be used interchangeably herein and features and functionality assigned to a processor or processing device of one embodiment are intended to be applicable to or utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

