---

title: Composition and method for affecting male and female hormone levels
abstract: A composition and method for enhancing fertility of a male or female human by affecting levels of cortisol, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, testosterone, progesterone, and estradiol in the human. The composition comprises effective amounts of spermine and spermidine, administered at least once daily for a period of at least thirty days.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09333184&OS=09333184&RS=09333184
owner: NOKOMIS RESEARCH, INC.
number: 09333184
owner_city: Carefree
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121203
---
This disclosure claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 566 647 titled COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR RESTORING REGULATING AND BALANCING MALE AND FEMALE ESTROGEN BALANCE which was filed on Dec. 3 2011 in the names of the Applicants herein. This disclosure is also related to U.S. Pat. No. 6 555 140 issued on Apr. 29 2003 to the applications of the present invention.

This disclosure generally relates to the field of hormonal balancing and more particularly to a composition and method for affecting mammalian male and female hormone levels.

Researchers have concluded that an overabundance of estrogen is responsible for a vast number of today s health problems. This overabundance of estrogen is referred to as estrogen dominance and is an increasingly serious problem for both women and men. Some researchers believe that estrogen dominance is the primary cause of prostate enlargement and prostate cancer in men and a big risk factor for breast cancer in women.

Estrogen dominance can occur during the aging process and can also occur from exposure to estrogen like substances in the environment known as xenoestrogens. 

Xenoestrogens are synthetic substances that differ from those produced by living organisms and that imitate or enhance the effect of estrogens. The estrogenic stimulation is an unintended side effect of these agents or their metabolites. Xenoestrogens are part of a heterogeneous group of chemicals that are hormone or endocrine disrupters. They differ from phytoestrogens estrogenic substances from plants mycoestrogens estrogenic substances from fungi and pharmacological estrogens estrogenic action is intended . External estrogens from a variety of sources may have a cumulative effect upon living organisms and xenoestrogens may be part of a larger picture of a process of estrogenization of the environment. Xenoestrogens have only been recently less than 70 years introduced into the environment as produced by industrial agricultural and chemical companies.

Xenoestrogens have been implicated in a variety of medical problems. Foremost is the concern that xenoestrogens as false messengers disrupt the process of reproduction. Studies have implicated observations of disturbances in wildlife with estrogenic exposure. Reproductive issues which are of concern in humans are fetal exposure perhaps leading to hypospadias and decreased reproductive ability in men i.e. decrease in sperm numbers . Another issue is the potential effect of xenoestrogens as oncogenes specifically in relation to breast cancer.

Xenoestrogen environmental sources includes commercially raised meat beef chicken and pork canned foods plastic food wraps plastic drinking bottles STYROFOAM cups personal care products cosmetics birth control pills and spermicides detergents all artificial scents air fresheners perfumes etc pesticides and herbicides paints lacquers and solvents.

There are three basic estrogens E3 estriol the least powerful and most beneficial comprising 80 90 of human estrogen E2 estradiol the most powerful and most carcinogenic and E1 estrone which has similar properties to estradiol but is considerably less biologically active. As men age their levels of estrogen rise especially the levels of estrone and estradiol which are the two most dangerous and potent estrogens. This phenomenon is now identified as andropause . A man over 50 years of age literally has more estrogen than a postmenopausal woman. The prostate is embryologically the same as the uterus in females and research studies have shown that like the uterus when prostate cells are exposed to excess estrogen the cells proliferate and become cancerous. In fact it is becoming clear that the excess of estrogen in aging men is responsible for a variety of problems such as adiposity breast development many cancers prostate problems baldness and many other problems commonly associated with advanced age.

Men also produce progesterone but only about half the amount that females do. During the aging process progesterone levels in men fall especially after age 60. Progesterone is the primary precursor of the male hormone testosterone which is an antagonist to estradiol E2 and a protector against certain types of cancer. Progesterone is vital to good health in both men and women.

The concurrent increase of estrogen levels and decrease of progesterone levels create a very serious hormonal imbalance that is very unhealthy. Either one of these hormonal level changes alone would be bad enough but both changes occurring together leads to a vicious cycle.

Because progesterone is the chief inhibitor of an enzyme called 5 alpha reductase that is responsible for converting testosterone to dihydrotestosterone DHT when the level of progesterone falls in men the amount of conversion from testosterone to DHT increases. Increased levels of DHT lead to prostate enlargement and also an increased risk of cancer due to the decreased cancer protection that testosterone provides.

As the level of DHT increases and testosterone decreases the relative level of estradiol in men increases. This is compounded by the fact that there are inadequate amounts of progesterone present to exhibit its counteracting effect of stimulating the P53 cancer protection gene.

Like perimenopausal women men experience a tendency to gain weight in midlife. Rising estrogen production can result because fat cells contain the aromatase enzyme that converts testosterone into estrogen. Unmetabolized estrogen creates a vicious cycle resulting in further estrogen production. This occurs because fat is one source of more active aromatase enzymes causing further estrogen production and weight gain.

It is common for women to experience surges of abnormally high estrogen levels during menopausal and premenopausal periods as well as earlier in life. It is believed that an excess of estrogen coupled with a deficiency of progesterone the counter hormone to estrogen is the common denominator for a lot of female troubles.

Some women will develop the estrogen dominance syndrome much later in life sometimes as a result of diet liver impairment or environmental factors or also as a result of anovulatory cycles before menopause that is menstrual cycles in which no ovulation has occurred. Ovulation is necessary in order to produce the corpus luteum which means yellow body that is found on the surface of the ovary after ovulation. Surrounding the ripening egg the corpus luteum remains after ovulation to produce progesterone for the last half of the menstrual cycle. Without ovulation less progesterone is produced which can cause estrogen imbalance in some women. Diseases or problems that are thought to be related to or affected by excess estrogen and deficient progesterone in women and men are accelerated aging process allergies autoimmune disorders breast cancer cold hands and feet decreased sex drive depression dry eyes infertility uterine cancer fat gain in abdomen hips and thighs fatigue fibrocystic breast disease hair loss headaches hypoglycemia increased blood clotting early onset of menstruation menstrual disturbances irregular and heavy bleeding endometriosis disorder of uterine tissue insomnia foggy thinking and memory loss mood swings ovarian cysts pre menopausal bone loss prostate cancer sluggish metabolism thyroid dysfunction uterine cancer uterine fibroids water retention and bloating.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE. This summary is not intended to identify key features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure a composition for affecting hormone levels of a mammal is disclosed. The composition comprises effective amounts of spermine and spermidine.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method of affecting hormone levels of a mammal is disclosed. The method comprises the steps of providing a composition that comprises between approximately 2.5 mg and 2.7 mg spermine and between approximately 2.5 mg and 2.7 mg spermidine and administering the composition to the mammal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method of a method for increasing fertility in a mammal is disclosed. The method comprises the steps of providing a composition that comprises between approximately 2.5 mg and 2.7 mg spermine and between approximately 2.5 mg and 2.7 mg spermidine administering the composition to the mammal at least once daily for a period of at least thirty days and affecting levels of at least one of cortisol dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate testosterone progesterone and estradiol in the mammal.

The description set forth below is intended as a description of presently preferred embodiments of the disclosure and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present disclosure can be constructed and or utilized. The description sets forth the functions and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the disclosure. It is to be understood however that the same or equivalent functions and sequences can be accomplished by different embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

While there have been some treatments proposed for treating estrogen dominance none have been entirely successful and there remains a need for identifying improved and or alternative therapies for treating these disorders. In particular improved methods and compositions should be effective and efficiently delivered in a non invasive manner have minimum side effects and optionally be compatible with other hormonal treatments.

Spermine and spermidine are found in virtually every cell in the body. Both of these vital polyamines are found in plant meat and fish sources with higher levels of spermidine found in vegetables and strangely high amounts of spermine being found in meats and fish.

A chemical analysis has been performed in respect of corn namely the chemical constituents of L. Poaceae cucumber namely the chemical constituents of L. Cucurbitaceae oats namely the chemical constituents of L. Poaceae and radishes namely the chemical constituents of L. Brassicaceae The Clinicians Handbook of Natural Healing by Gary Null Kensington Publishing New York 1997 . Over ninety different chemicals and compounds were identified in the list of constituents. The present invention discloses that spermine and spermidine are the constituents that are capable of restoring balanced hormonal levels in male and female humans.

Spermine and spermidine are both known as polyamines. Polyamines are organic cations of low molecular weight which are present in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. The major polyamines in mammals are putrescine spermidine and spermine Colandra et al. p. 46 209 222 1996 Apptla .

Polyamines are ubiquitous chemicals that occur in every living cell. They fulfill an array of roles in cellular metabolism and are involved in many steps of protein RNA and DNA synthesis from the control and initiation of translation to the regulation of its fidelity Dunshea and King p. 73 819 828 1995 . There is a scarcity of information on the bioavailability and mechanism of polyamine uptake by the gut and the fate of polyamines derived from the gut rumen in humans Dunshea and King p. 73 819 828 1995 . It appears that polyamines can be readily taken up from the gut rumen and it has been suggested that this occurs by pass of diffusion Dunshea and King p. 73 819 828 1995 .

Polyamines have different patterns of tissue distribution between mammalian species and age and different hormone and environmental conditions will influence the polyamine pool Colandra et al. p. 46 209 222 1996 Apptla .

Biogenic amines exist naturally in many food stuffs and vegetables such as Chinese cabbage endive iceberg lettuce and radishes all of which have been found to contain varying levels of the aforementioned polyamines. However changes in the biogenic amine content from ungerminated seeds to young plants show a reduction in concentration of these polyamines. Furthermore it is not clear how such polyamines could be released from the aforementioned plants.

Both spermine and spermidine when ingested are transported from inside the intestine into the blood stream with only 30 of the ingested amount being metabolically degraded. Therefore about 70 of what is ingested is metabolically available for the body to use in various cellular processes.

Both spermine and spermidine are essential for healthy cell development in the human body Merck Index . Accordingly the present invention discloses a composition and method wherein effective amounts of spermine and or spermidine are used to affect hormone levels in both human males and females e.g. restoring balanced hormonal levels e.g. cortisol dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate testosterone progesterone and estradiol for both males and females with estrogen dominance. Spermidine and spermine are naturally derived from green plant materials. Although it is possible to produce synthetic or recombinant spermine and spermidine it is preferably derived from corn cucumber oats lettuce lentil seeds radish leaves radish seeds cabbage various meats and fish. Nonetheless it should be clearly understood that spermine and spermidine as disclosed herein may comprise the compounds as isolated from corn cucumber oat and radish leaves and stems or any other natural source but may also include any portion of the compounds which provide the biological activity of restoring balanced hormonal levels in human males and human females who have estrogen dominance. It should also be clearly understood that spermine and spermidine may include any and all synthetic analogs of the naturally occurring polyamines or biologically active portions thereof howsoever prepared.

Where a human male or a human female is the subject the composition may comprise a combined dose of approximately 5 mg 5.4 mg i.e. between approximately 2.5 mg 2.7 mg of spermine and between approximately 2.5 mg 2.7 mg of spermidine. It should be clearly understood however that the dosages of the active substances of the compositions disclosed herein may vary depending on many factors such as pharmacodynamic characteristics of the particular substance and its mode and routes of administration source of substance age health and weight of the patient nature and extent of symptoms kind of current treatment frequency of treatment and the effect desired.

The composition of the present invention when administering spermine and spermidine preferably contains suitable pharmaceutical carriers or diluents as appropriate. Other herbals may be added to fulfill the requirements of a homeopathic formula. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers and methods of preparing pharmaceutical dosage forms are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Veterinary Drug Handbook Donald C. Plum University of Minnesota and Canadian Compendium of Veterinary Products Canadian Animal Health Institute 6th Ed. North American Compendium Ltd. Hensal Ontario which is a standard of reference in this field. Suitable pharmaceutical diluents excipients or carriers may be suitably selected with respect to the intended form of administration that is oral tablets capsules elixirs syrups teas paste and the like and would be consistent with conventional pharmaceutical practices. Routes of administration may include oral transdermal and injection by intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous routes. A person skilled in the art would readily ascertain what a suitable pharmaceutical carrier would be.

The incidence and prevalence of infertility and sexual dysfunction in men and women is increasing. The biogenic polyamines spermine and spermidine are important for sexual function as well as fertility. Spermine and spermidine are present in plant foods and are synthesized from ornithine and methionine in mammals. Stress and stress associated hormone disruption are contributors to both poor sexual function and infertility. Spermine and spermidine are important in reducing the impact of stress on living organisms.

An study was designed to observe the impact of spermine and spermidine supplementation of hormone levels of otherwise healthy human subjects with no history of infertility or sexual dysfunction. Pre and Post supplement levels of cortisol dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate DHEAS testosterone progesterone and estradiol as well as 30 day post supplement levels of these hormones were performed on age gender equivalent subjects.

Clinically significant reductions in cortisol were seen in 30 days among 83 of male participants and 37 of female participants. 66 of male participants maintained lower cortisol levels 30 days after withdrawal of the study supplement. In women the cumulative effect of the spermine and spermidine supplementation continued with 50 reporting a significant reduction in cortisol levels 30 days after withdrawal of the study supplement. There was an average of 3.3 pounds of weight loss during the first 30 days of supplementation without any dietary or metabolic intervention.

Furthermore 7 out of 8 female participants demonstrated a moderate increase in DHEAS at 30 days while 5 of 7 male participants demonstrated a significant DHEAS increase in 60 days. 83 of men had a decrease in estradiol and 100 of men had a decrease of progesterone at 30 days while 75 of women in follicular phase of the menstrual cycle experienced both an increase in estradiol and a significant increase in progesterone. In men of the under 50 year age group testosterone levels increased by an average of 48.9 28.3 pg mL while in the over 50 age group testosterone levels decreased by an average of 36.7 33 pg mL . In women 75 had an average increase of 48.8 10.6 pg mL in testosterone levels at 30 days while the same number 75 had an average decrease of 32.7 10.5 pg mL in testosterone levels at 60 days.

For both fertility and sexual performance it is important to reduce cortisol levels. Also important to fertility is the balancing of various hormone ratios during reproductive years. Likewise it is important for sexual performance of women post menopause and men post andropause to achieve cortisol reduction and hormone balance. The biogenic polyamines spermine and spermidine show a trend toward hormone balance.

The biogenic polyamines spermine and spermidine are ubiquitous in plants since they are part of prokaryotic and eukaryotic stress response. They are present in mammalian tissues as well. In humans and other mammals spermine and spermidine are synthesized from the amino acids ornithine and methionine Groppa Benevides 2008 Loser C. et al. p. 84 S55 8 2000 Tabor C W et al. p. 53 749 90 1984 Loser C. p. 54 213 23 1993 and H. G. Williams p. 171 882 894 1970 . It has also been reported that spermine and spermidine participate with nitric oxide synthesis making spermine and spermidine critical to reproduction. Salts of spermine have also been isolated in seminal fluid Bardocz S. et al. p. 73 819 28 1995 .

Polyamines provided by food seem to be essential for the maintenance of normal growth and maturation Dandrifosse G Peulen O. et al. p. 59 81 6 2000 and Dufour C et al. p. 95 112 6 1988 . Dietary polyamines are associated with cellular growth and differentiation. This association was reported to be due to polyamine interaction with DNA RNA and proteins Loser C. et al. p. 84 S55 8 2000 and Dufour C. et al. p. 95 112 6 1988 . Furthermore exogenous polyamines modulate mucosal proliferation and absorption from diet Bardocz S. p. 6 341 6 1995 . Hence insufficient polyamine intake could hinder important health enhancing effects of polyamines such as induction of tolerance to dietary allergens Lovaas E et al. p. 11 455 61 1991 . A high intake of spermine is associated with a decreased risk of food allergy among suckling rats as well as in children due to the contribution of spermine to maturation of both the immune system and the small intestinal mucosa Tabor C W et al. p. 53 749 90 1984 Exton M S et al. p. 61 280 9 1999 and Exton N G p. 25 187 99 2000 .

Dietary polyamines provide both antioxidant and anti inflammatory properties Loser C. et al. p. 44 12 6 1999 and Sabater Molina M. et al. p. 23 87 95 2007 . The antioxidant activity of polyamines has been shown to be even stronger than that of some antioxidant vitamins Loser C. et al. p. 44 12 6 1999 and Sabater Molina M. et al. p. 23 87 95 2007 .

Glucocorticoids primarily cortisol are produced by the adrenal glands in response to stressors such as emotional upheaval exercise surgery illness or starvation. In response to a stressor most organisms have an automatic reaction that engages the mechanisms necessary for mobilization. This response automatically activated as a defense against any threat is designed to provide the energy resources necessary for survival and to shut down all unnecessary functions such as digestive and reproductive functions. Consequently in order for an organism to engage in sexual activity the stress response would need to be inactive.

Cortisol plays an essential role in the stress response. Although there are a series of autonomic and endocrine responses that occur when an organism is faced with a stressor cortisol has become commonly known as the stress hormone. Cortisol s role in the endocrine system is metabolic and it is released both after eating and in response to stressful situations. As part of the stress response cortisol acts on various metabolic pathways to provide energy where it is needed in the body during a stressful fight or flight situation. Although increased cortisol release is not the only marker of the stress response measuring cortisol response is a simple way to make a reasonable judgment about whether or not an organism is experiencing a stress response. This is particularly useful in sexual arousal studies because cortisol is only active in specific instances whereas for example the sympathetic nervous system is activated in a variety of situations including both sexual arousal and during stress. Eliassen K A et al. p. 78 273 80 2002 Igarashi K. et al. p. 271 559 64 2000 and Deloyer P. et al. p. 13 1027 32 2001 .

Cortisol is made from progesterone. See Table 1 . In situations where there is excessive cortisol production and release in response to stress progesterone levels decline. This happens because cortisol is much more necessary for life than progesterone therefore progesterone gets converted into cortisol. Since cortisol and progesterone compete for common receptors in the cells cortisol impairs progesterone activity setting the stage for estrogen dominance. Without adequate progesterone a fertilized egg will not be maintained in the uterus. According to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine infertility affects about 10 of men and women of childbearing age. Chronically elevated cortisol levels can be a direct cause.

In this study 83 of men and 37 of women experienced a significant reduction in cortisol during the 30 day supplementation with spermine and spermidine. Once the supplement was withdrawn the levels of cortisol began to rise among men but continued to decline among women reaching 50 after an additional 30 days. See Table 2 3 .

DHEA or dihydroepiandrosterone is one of the major steroid hormones produced by the adrenal glands and sometimes by the gonads ovaries and testes . The body converts DHEA into male and female sex hormones such as estrogen and testosterone. When a sulfate group a special molecule containing a sulfur atom and four oxygen atoms is added to DHEA it forms DHEAS dihydroepiandrosterone sulfate . Most DHEA is found as DHEAS in the blood. Women with infertility and men with erectile dysfunction frequently have low levels of DHEAS.

In this study 42.8 of men at 60 days and 87.5 of women at 30 days experienced a significant elevation in DHEAS following 30 day supplementation with spermine and spermidine. Table 4 5 .

Testosterone is the primary sex hormone in the male body. However it is also present and needed in the female body for the same process just in lesser quantities. Testosterone is responsible for the changes that come on around puberty in men such as the voice lowering enlargement of the penis and testes and hair growth. It is also the key hormone behind the male libido or the desire to have sex. In women it is largely responsible for enhancing the female libido and sexual function. Testosterone can be made in three different places. For men most of the testosterone is made in the testicles. For men and women small amounts of testosterone can be made by the adrenal glands. For women only small amounts can also be made in the ovaries.

Testosterone production starts with signals that are transported from the pituitary gland and the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus produces a hormone called gonadotropin. This hormone transmits to the pituitary gland which is then stimulated to produce follicle stimulating hormones. These hormones run from the pituitary gland to the testicles and tell the testes to produce testosterone. The brain is then able to sense when the body has enough or has too much testosterone and regulates its production through the pituitary gland. Elevated cortisol associated with stress may cause a shortage of testosterone in the body. Not getting enough testosterone for men can mean a decreased sex drive and erectile dysfunction. In women it can result in a lowered libido.

In this study men under age 50 experienced a 48.9 testosterone increase after 60 days and women experienced a 48.8 testosterone increase during the 30 day supplementation with spermine and spermidine. Table 6 7 .

Progesterone is secreted by the empty egg follicle after ovulation has occurred known as the corpus luteum. It is highest during the last phases of the menstrual cycle after ovulation. Progesterone causes the endometrium to secrete special proteins to prepare it for the implantation of a fertilized egg. When fertilization does not occur it prevents the body from creating and releasing more eggs in the later stages of the menstrual cycle.

If conception has occurred progesterone becomes the major hormone supporting pregnancy with many important functions. It is responsible for the growth and maintenance of the endometrium. It also suppresses further maturation of eggs by preventing release of luteinizing hormone LH and follicle stimulating hormone FSH . By relaxing the major muscle of the uterus progesterone prevents early contractions and birth. It does however also thicken the muscle helping the body prepare for the hard work of labor. Finally progesterone suppresses prolactin the primary hormone of milk production preventing lactation until birth.

Progesterone is a female hormone used for reproduction but it is also found in men. While progesterone still largely functions as a female reproduction facilitator it can also be beneficial to men suffering from benign prostatic hyperplasia or an enlarged prostate. Men produce about half as much progesterone as women. They use it to make testosterone the main male hormone and produce cortisone a hormone produced by the adrenal glands see .

The prostate is a gland a little larger than a walnut that wraps around the urethra just under the bladder. It helps the fertilization process by producing a fluid filled with nutrients that mixes with the sperm to form semen and helps the sperm survive in the vagina s environment. The prostate experiences a growth spurt from male puberty to about the age of 20. It begins to grow again during a man s 40 s as a natural part of aging. This is called benign prostatic hyperplasia and most men will have it by their 50 s and 60s .

Men produce both testosterone and estrogen another female hormone. The ratio of testosterone to estrogen is very high in a healthy man but as men age that ratio can change. Many scientists believe that this is what causes the growth of the prostate as men age. Progesterone counteracts the effects of estrogen in men and improves the testosterone estrogen ratios. It prevents testosterone from being converted into dihydrotestosterone DHT a weaker version of testosterone that dilutes the male hormone ratio.

In this study 100 of men achieved an average decrease of 11.0 pg mL 46.3 in progesterone levels at 30 days and 85.7 maintained an average decrease of 10.0 pg mL 37.2 in progesterone levels at 60 days. One hundred percent of women with a decrease of progesterone levels at 30 days were either post menopausal or in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. These levels remained lower than baseline at 60 days. On average progesterone levels decreased 22.8 pg mL. However 100 of women with an increase of progesterone levels at 30 days were in the follicular phase of menstruation. These levels remained higher than baseline at 60 days. On average progesterone levels increased 32.0 pg mL.

Estradiol is the form of estrogen produced by the ovary and is what is measured during routine infertility monitoring.

Estrogen is a group of hormones that are known best for their role in changing a girl into a woman with child bearing potential. Estrogen also helps regulate the menstrual cycle protects bones from thinning and keeps cholesterol levels low to protect the heart. Estrogen can sometimes help turn normal breast tissue into cancers. Estrogen is made in three ways within your body in nature and in a synthetic form used in medications.

Estrogen like any other hormone can be both beneficial and harmful. Research has shown that a few chemicals called estrogenic xenobiotics can mimic estrogen in the body and cause health problems the same way that excessive estrogen might do naturally. For example the chemical nonylphenol found in cleaning products paints herbicides and pesticides can damage human sperm.

Many medicinal and edible plants contain compounds called phytoestrogens which are chemically similar to the sex hormone estradiol the primary estrogen in humans. Although it is generally regarded as a woman s hormone estradiol also occurs naturally in a man s body it is produced in the testes . In addition as in a woman s body a man s body produces precursor hormones including testosterone which are converted to estradiol. Table 1 . In a man s body estradiol is involved in sexual functioning the synthesis of bone cognitive functioning and the modulation of several diseases including cancer and heart disease .

In this study 83 of men experienced a 55.9 decrease in estradiol in 30 days. This indicates that spermine and spermidine may be potent estrogen blocking supplements. 50 of women experienced an increase in Estradiol during the 30 day supplementation with spermine and spermidine 75 of these also experiencing a concomitant increase in progesterone. Once the supplement was withdrawn the levels of estradiol began to decline among women and increase in men. Table 10 11 .

As shown through the above studies spermine and spermidine the biogenic polyamines found in food and produced endogenously from the amino acids ornithine and methionine reduce cortisol levels in men and women opening the way for improved sexual function and fertility. Further they decrease estradiol in men potentially negating some of the loss of sexual function associated with estrogen dominance. Spermine and spermidine also improve the estrogen levels in some women and also improve the estrogen to progesterone ratio again potentially reducing the negative effects of estrogen dominance. Furthermore spermine and spermidine improve testosterone levels in men under age 50 and increase DHEAS levels in men over age 50 both markers correlated with improved sexual function.

Women who experienced non disabling mood swings and irritability associated with hormone fluctuations demonstrated a significant reduction in symptoms 80 after only 30 days on spermine spermidine supplementation. Further women who experience low back and hip pain associated with hormone fluctuations demonstrated a significant reduction in symptoms 80 after only 30 days on spermine spermidine supplementation. Men likewise experienced reduction in pain or fatigue in the legs or back 62 .

Men experiencing low energy level or stamina realized a 50 improvement in symptoms and women experiencing unusual fatigue realized a 75 improvement in symptoms after only 30 days on spermine spermidine supplementation.

Finally among men experiencing a sense of bladder fullness and frequent or urgent need to urinate fully 55 demonstrated a significant reduction in symptoms after only 30 days on spermine spermidine supplementation. And women experiencing urinary difficulties found their symptoms we relieved 66 after only 30 days on spermine spermidine supplementation.

The foregoing description is provided to enable any person skilled in the relevant art to practice the various embodiments described herein. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the relevant art and generic principles defined herein can be applied to other embodiments. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown and described herein but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language of the claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically stated but rather one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various embodiments described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public.

Several references have been described in this patent specification. A full citation is presented below and the contents of the cited references are incorporated by reference herein.

