---

title: Methods and systems for trade fee and rebate computation and order routing
abstract: Systems and methods for determining a trade fee charged by a trading venue to a market participant, or a rebate credited by a trading venue to a market participant are disclosed. The method may include a computer accessing and storing one or more order information parameters in memory, as well as accessing and storing one or more of market characteristics in memory. The method may further include calculating a trade fee or rebate that is based on at least one of the order information parameters and at least one of the market characteristics stored in memory. A system may include a memory containing instructions for calculating a trade fee or rebate and a processor in communication with the memory, the processor configured to execute the instructions according to the method set out above.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08612323&OS=08612323&RS=08612323
owner: Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated
number: 08612323
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120607
---
The present disclosure relates generally to the trading of financial products. More specifically the present disclosure relates to the calculation of trade fees charged and rebates granted by trade venues for the execution of financial product orders.

A trade venue is a location either physical virtual or some combination of the two where items such as financial products are bought and sold. Examples of trade venues include stock exchanges options exchanges futures exchanges and swap execution facilities. Financial products include but are not limited to securities currencies futures contracts swap contracts and options contracts. Trade venues that provide for the exchange of financial products e.g. options exchanges compete for order flow and an overall higher share of the order volume i.e. liquidity in the market. This competition for order volume has led trade venues to institute various features in an effort to gain competitive edge.

For example historically the trading of financial products at trading venues was conducted through a process known as open outcry trading. In open outcry trading market participants typically communicate verbally and or visually with each other to indicate their willingness to buy and sell financial products. However more recently some trade venues have been established that have no open outcry trading and instead trading is conducted through purely computer facilitated electronic communication. In these electronic exchanges market participants utilize computer based systems to transmit messages e.g. quotes and or orders to conduct trading. Still other trade venues use a hybrid trading system that combines the features of open outcry and electronic trading in a single exchange. The implementation of these different market models of trading is one way in which the trade venues have attempted to find competitive advantage and gain a greater share of liquidity.

Additionally trade venues compete with each other for order volume through the use of inter alia trade fees and rebates. Trade fees are the fees charged by a trade venue to the market participants for executing an order. Rebates are incentives paid out by a trade venue to market participants for executing orders at a trade venue. Trade fees and rebates are analyzed by market participants when deciding to which trade venues to send order flow.

Several different types of trade fee and rebate structures are currently in use or have been used by trade venues. For example some known fee structures include straight trade fee schedules traditional trade fee schedules and maker taker trade fee schedules. According to a straight trade fee schedule each market participant pays the same predefined trade fee for each trade executed at a trade venue.

According to a traditional trade fee schedule each market participant pays a predefined trade fee for each order executed at the trade venue based on one or more properties of the order or the market participant. For example trade fees may be set in a traditional trade fee schedule according to one or more of the following list including but not limited to the type of order e.g. market maker customer professional broker dealer etc. the type of financial product e.g. equity option contract index option contract future contracts etc. the symbol of a financial product the trade fee for one equity option may be set higher than the trade fee for another equity option the type of execution e.g. open outcry or electronic and the cumulative volume of trades executed by a market participant.

Maker taker trade fee schedules generally give a rebate to market participants that provide liquidity i.e. makers and charge a trade fee to market participants that take liquidity out of the market i.e. takers . Thus the maker taker trade fee schedule differs from the straight and traditional trade fee schedules because under the maker taker schedule only the taker pays a trade fee. However in some implementations of a maker taker fee schedule it is the maker that pays the fee and the taker that is given the rebate. While the determination of which order is the maker and which is the taker can be made in a number of different ways it is possible to make the determinations based on the book time of the orders. More specifically the order with the earlier book time is generally the maker .

One common feature of the prior art straight traditional and maker taker trade fee schedules is that they are all predefined static schedules which are incapable of accounting for the dynamic nature of the market.

Accordingly the present disclosure describes methods and systems for calculating a dynamic trade fee or rebate schedule in real time that accounts for ever changing market characteristics. Additionally the present disclosure describes systems and methods that route and execute orders based on calculated actual or estimated dynamic trade or rebate fees.

According to a first aspect a computer implemented method for calculating dynamic trade fees is described. The method includes a computer accessing order information having order information parameters and storing one or more of the order information parameters in memory. The method further includes the computer accessing one or more market characteristics and storing one or more of the market characteristics in memory. The computer then calculates a trade fee that is based on at least one of the order information parameters and at least one of the market characteristics stored in memory. The one or more order information parameters may include symbol strike price expiration type side order size order price contingency user identification origin code execution time execution size execution price or book time. The one or more market characteristics may include at least one of bid and ask information last price market spread order volume volatility or market direction.

According to another aspect a system for calculating dynamic trade fees is disclosed. The system comprising may include at least one memory containing instructions for calculating a dynamic trade fee. The system further includes a processor in communication with the at least one memory that is configured to execute the instructions to access order information having order information parameters store one or more of the order information parameters in the at least one memory access one or more market characteristics store one or more of the market characteristics in the at least one memory and calculate a trade fee that is based on at least one of the order information parameters and at least one of the market characteristics stored in the at least one memory.

In yet another aspect a computer implemented method for calculating dynamic rebates includes by a computer accessing order information having order information parameters and storing one or more of the order information parameters in memory. The method further includes the computer also accessing one or more market characteristics and storing one or more of the market characteristics in memory. The computer then calculates a rebate that is based on at least one of the order information parameters and at least one of the market characteristics stored in memory.

The above and or other aspects features and or advantages of various embodiments will be further appreciated in view of the following description in conjunction with the accompanying figures. Various embodiments can include or exclude different aspects features or advantages where applicable. In addition various embodiments can combine one or more aspects features or advantages where applicable. The descriptions of the aspects features or advantages of a particular embodiment should not be construed as limiting any other embodiment of the claimed invention.

According to the present invention computerized systems and computer implemented methods are disclosed that allow for the periodic or real time calculation of actual or estimated predicted dynamic trade fees and or rebates that are based on at least in part market characteristics e.g. market spread . According to an embodiment of the present invention the periodic or real time calculation is performed at a trade venue as part of the order execution or post order execution processes. According to another embodiment of the present invention the periodic or real time calculation is performed prior to execution by financial systems that are external to a trade venue e.g. smart routers order management systems execution management systems algorithmic trading systems etc. .

Embodiments of the present invention may be integrated into known trade venue computer architecture and or into known financial systems that are external to a trade venue. For example embodiments of the present invention could be implemented using the trade venue architecture shown in .

The exchange components of the trade venue system include a computer implemented trading platform that includes but is not limited to member interface and matching engine and computer implemented exchange back end systems . Member interface provides an electronic interface for receiving messages e.g. bids offers quotes orders and trading instructions from the computers or other electronic devices of traders or other entities transacting business at the financial exchange or any combination thereof. The member interface may be a graphical user interface GUI or an application programming interface API and other software components operating on a computer configured to perform trading functionality. Additionally according to the trade venue system the member interface analyzes received electronic trading instructions for proper format and information and if deemed execution eligible routes the trading instruction to the appropriate matching engine .

Matching engine provides an electronic mechanism for matching contra position bids and offers that are submitted to the trade venue by market participants. While trade venue system shows a single matching engine multiple matching engines may be included in a trading platform . Multiple matching engines may work independently or cooperatively depending on various factors related to the business of the trade venue. For example different exchange traded products e.g. stock futures contracts options contracts symbols etc. may utilize different matching engines. The matching engine executes trades by pairing contra orders. Further according to some financial trading systems non marketable orders are placed in an electronic order book. An electronic order book may be implemented using known computer hardware in combination with a database product. According to some implementations of trade venue systems a book time is recorded when an order enters the order book.

After a trade is executed matching engine sends information related to the executed trade to the exchange back end systems which further process trades that have been executed at the financial exchange. According to an embodiment of the present invention the exchange back end systems include electronic storage hardware and software e.g. database software that is used to store order and trade data and or records. The matching engine sends information related to the executed trade to the member firm back end systems . According to some examples of financial trading systems the matching engine also updates the electronic order book based on executed transactions.

The non exchange components of trade venue system include clearing corporation systems and member firm back end systems . The clearing corporation systems are used in the process of settling trades that have been executed at the financial exchange. An example of a clearing corporation is OCC which is a derivatives clearing organization. The member firm back end systems are used by the entities conducting business at the financial exchange to receive settlement information regarding their transactions.

According to the present exemplary trade venue system the computer implemented trading platform can be accessed in a variety of ways by market participants conducting business at the financial exchange. For example market makers may access the computer implemented trading platform through market maker computers that are in electronic communication with the member interface . Utilizing the market maker computers electronic messages e.g. bids offers quotes orders and or other trading instructions may be sent to the computer implemented trading platform . Alternatively the electronic messages may be routed through a member firm order routing system .

Further according to the present exemplary financial trading system a non member market participant wanting to transact business at the trade venue can enter an order using a customer computer . However such orders must be routed through a member firm order routing system . The member firms order routing systems transmits the electronic trading instructions to the member interface .

The exchange back end systems may according to some implementations of trade venue systems perform a number of functions. For example exchange back end systems may perform operations related to contract definitions listing data billing and storage of order and trade data and or records. According to an embodiment of the present invention the exchange back end systems include electronic storage hardware and software e.g. database software that stores trade records and other information e.g. trade fee and rebate variables . Additionally the exchange back end systems may transmit information to market data vendors perform operations related to the performance of underlying assets for derivative financial products determine appropriate contract settlement values and supply final settlement data to the clearing corporation systems and the member firm back end systems .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the exchange back end systems are configured to calculate in real time near real time or periodically a dynamic trade fee and or rebate that accounts for market characteristics e.g. market spread . According to an embodiment of the present invention the exchange back end systems include one or more databases that store parameters for calculating trade fees and or rebates. According to another embodiment of the present invention the parameters for calculating trade fees and rebates are encoded in computer readable instructions that when processed by one or more trade venue computers allow for the calculating of trade fees and rebates. Further the back end systems include electronic communication capabilities for transmitting calculated trade fees and rebates to the market participants. According to another embodiment of the present invention trade venue systems other than the back end systems include electronic communication capabilities for transmitting calculated trade fees and rebates to the market participants. For example a trade venue s front end systems may be configured to transmit calculated trade fees and rebates to market participants as part of trade fill reports that are generated after the execution of a trade.

According to the present invention a trade fee calculation for the execution of an order is based at least in part on one or more order information parameters and one or more market characteristics. According to an embodiment of the present invention the trade fee calculation may also be based on one or more market participant characteristics.

In the present disclosure an order information parameter is a piece of information that is related to or can be obtained from an order submitted by a market participant or a trade record generated by the execution of the submitted order against a contra order or contra quote. According to an embodiment of the present invention order information parameters may include information about an order contra order contra quote or trade execution.

For example order information parameters for an option contract include but are not limited to symbol strike price expiration date type of contract i.e. call or put side i.e. buy or sell order size i.e. the number of a financial product to be bought or sold order price e.g. a limit price or market order contingency e.g. restrictions on order such as good till cancel day immediate or cancel etc. order user identification i.e. who submitted the order order origin code i.e. what type of client the order was submitted for such as customer broker dealer market maker etc. order book time contra side contra user identification contra quote size contra quote time execution time estimated execution price execution size and execution price. Orders for other types of financial products e.g. stock and futures may include different order information parameters e.g. orders executed at an alternative trading system ATS may have order information parameters including but not limited to contra order side contra order user identification contra order size contra order time etc. . Additionally order information parameters regarding an order may be obtained before or after the order is executed. According to the present invention a determination of and whether an order is a maker or taker is an order information parameter.

In the present disclosure a market characteristic is a non static piece of information that is related to market behavior at a trade venue to which an order has been or is contemplated being sent. At a trade venue market characteristics can be accessed from internal market data communications. At a financial system that is external to a trade venue market characteristics can be accessed from commercially available market data feeds.

Market characteristics include but are not limited to execution volume at a trade venue e.g. total execution volume at a trade venue or a subset of the execution volume at a trade venue according for example to one or more symbols market spread i.e. the distance between the bid and ask at a trade venue or venues e.g. the best bid and offer BBO or national best bid and offer NBBO for one or more financial products midpoint of the market spread movement direction for the price of a financial product i.e. is the price of a financial product on average increasing or decreasing and volatility in a financial instrument. According to an embodiment of the present invention market characteristics can be observed in real time near real time and or periodically. Additionally historical market characteristics can be utilized by financial trading systems in performing data analysis for example the calculation of trade fee estimates predictions.

In the present disclosure a market participant characteristic is a piece of information that is specific to a market participant but is not specific to an order. Market participant information can include information that is static or dynamic. For example according to an embodiment of the present invention the market participant data could include total order volume submitted by a particular market participant at a trade venue and order volume submitted in a particular financial product or subset of financial products at a trade venue.

According to an embodiment of the present invention one or more order information parameters may be used to determine which market characteristics and market participant characteristics should be used in calculating a trade fee or rebate. For example a trade venue may list hundreds or thousands of different financial products for trading. According to an embodiment of the present invention if a market spread which is a market characteristic for a particular execution wanted to be accessed it would necessitate the use of several order information parameters including symbol strike price expiration and execution time.

At step order information for a financial product is accessed electronically. According to various embodiments of the present invention this step could be performed by retrieving order information from random access memory RAM by querying a database and retrieving order information or through some other form of electronic accessing. According to an embodiment of the present invention the order information may be accessed from order records trade records and or during the process of receiving and or executing an order.

According to various embodiments of the present invention this step could take place before during or after execution of an order. The order information includes at least one order information parameter as described above.

For example step could include the accessing of a trade record shown below that was generated when an option order was submitted and executed at a trade venue e.g. CBOE .

At step one or more order information parameters of the accessed order information are processed. According to an embodiment of the present invention at step particular order information parameters may be loaded into memory for future use in the calculation of a dynamic trade fee or rebate.

At step one or more market characteristics are electronically accessed and processed. According to an embodiment of the present invention at step particular market characteristics may be loaded into memory for use in the calculation of a trade fee or rebate. According to the present invention one or more order information parameters can be used to obtain a market characteristic For example if a market spread which is a market characteristic for a particular execution or contemplated execution had to be accessed it would necessitate the use of several order information parameters including symbol strike price expiration and execution time no execution time would be used for a contemplated execution . At step it is determined if a trade fee needs to be calculated for the executed order. According to an embodiment of the present invention the determination is made based on one or more of the order information parameters. According to another embodiment of the present invention the determination may also be made based on one or more market characteristics and or market participant characteristics. For example a trade fee structure may be set such that customer maker orders pay a trade fee while customer taker orders do not. Thus if the accessed order was a customer maker order step would yield a determination that a trade fee needs to be calculated.

For example according to an embodiment of the present invention the origin code of the order is used to determine if the order is a market maker professional or customer order. However there are numerous other origin codes that could be available including but not limited to broker dealer away market maker firm proprietary and underlying stock specialist.

According to an embodiment of the present invention market maker and professional orders are subjected to a trade fee. Further according to an embodiment customer makers are subjected to a trade fee and customer takers are given a rebate. It should be noted the different implementations of fee schedules may charge trade fees or give rebates based on any number of order information parameters market characteristics and or market participant characteristics. The examples discussed herein are not intended to and do not limit the scope of the present invention.

Continuing the example started above the origin code indicates that the order is a customer order and thus according to an embodiment of the present invention a determination must be made as to if the order is a maker or taker . This determination may be conducted according to an embodiment of the present invention by comparing the book time of the order and the book time of the contra quote or order i.e. the quote or order executed against the accessed order . In the present example the contra quote was submitted at 14 45 15 minutes after the book time of the buy order. Thus in this example the customer buy order is the maker order and subject to a trade fee. According to another embodiment of the present invention the determination of may be conducted by comparing the book time of an order and the execution time. If the book time was prior to the execution time then the order was a maker order. If the book time or a submission time if the order was not booked is equal to or substantially equal to the execution time then the order was a taker order. Additionally the maker taker determination could be made in a different way.

At step a trade fee is calculated. As described in further detail below the trade fee can be calculated according to numerous configurations so long as one of the inputs is a non static market characteristic e.g. market spread .

If at step it is determined that no trade fee need be calculated the process continues at step . At step it is determined if a rebate needs to be calculated for the executed order. If it is determined that no rebate need be calculated the process ends at step . However if it is determined that a rebate needs to be calculated the process continues at step . For example according to an embodiment of the present invention an order that is a customer taker order would receive a rebate and thus a rebate would need to be calculated.

At step a rebate is calculated. As described in further detail below the rebate can be calculated according to numerous configurations so long as one of the inputs is a non static market characteristic e.g. market spread.

After the trade fee or rebate is calculated an electronic trade fee or rebate message is transmitted at step . According to an embodiment of the present invention the message may be sent to a database a billing system and or a market participant. The trade fee or rebate message may include any number of parameters including but not limited to user identification origin code order execution time trade fee or rebate amount etc.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a financial system that is external to a trade venue uses a calculated actual or estimated trade fee rebate to determine where and when to route orders. For example a smart router system i.e. a computer system that decides to which trade venues orders should be routed for execution may calculate estimated predicted trade fees and rebates when determining to which trade venue an order should be sent. Additionally other financial trading systems e.g. computerized algorithmic trading systems may calculate estimated predicted trade fees and rebates when determining if orders should be created and sent to a particular trade venue.

At step market characteristics are electronically accessed and processed. Unlike step described above which took place at a particular trade venue step may include the taking in of commercial market data feeds from one or more trade venues. This is necessary because different trade venues may have different market characteristics and these different market characteristics could yield different trade fees and or rebates. Additionally it is possible that step could include the accessing and processing of historical market characteristics in an effort to estimate predict the state of the market when an order is sent for execution.

At step the smart router calculates the trade fees and or rebates for the trade venues that it could route the accessed order to i.e. trade venues 1 . . . n . Because the way that trade fees rebates are calculated may vary from trade venue to trade venue the smart router according to an embodiment of the present invention may be configured to calculate the trade fees rebates according to different trade venue dependent trade fee rebate calculations. According to the present invention at least one of the trade fee rebate calculations is based at least in part on a non static market characteristic e.g. market spread.

At step the smart router determines to which trade venue to route the accessed order. According to an embodiment of the present invention this determination may be based on a number of factors including but not limited to estimated predicted trade fees rebates.

At step the smart router routes the accessed order for potential execution based on the determination of step .

Trade fees and rebates may be calculated according to the present invention in a number of ways so long as the calculation uses a non static market characteristic e.g. market spread. The following trade fee rebate structure is an embodiment of the present invention that uses market spread in calculating trade fees and rebates. According to an embodiment of the present invention the following formulas and tables may be referred to as trade fee variables and rebate variable depending on which is being calculated.

According to an embodiment of the present invention trade fees are calculated according to the following formula Trade Fee Market Spread 100 Market Participant Rate. According to various embodiments of the present invention the multiplier of 100 could be substituted with any value or no value if for example the value were one. According to the present embodiment the multiplier of 100 was used because an options contract has 100 shares of an underlying as its basis. For example a call option contract for IBM conveys the right to buy 100 shares of IBM at a given strike price. According to another embodiment of the present invention if the trade fee were being calculated for a stock trade the multiplier may be the number of shares executed.

The market spread is calculated by subtracting the bid from the offer for a financial product at a trade venue or venues. For example if an option of JJJ stock listed at a trade venue has a bid 5.00 and offer of 5.05 the market spread is 0.05.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the market participant rate is a predefined percentage set according to the origin code. For example the following table lists according to an embodiment of the present invention the market participant rate.

Turning to the example order discussed above and shown below the following trade fee calculation could be made. This example assumes that customer makers pay a trade fee

According to an embodiment of the present invention the trade record which would be accessed to perform the calculation includes the following order information parameters that are necessary to calculate the trade fee symbol expiration strike price type execution size origin code book time and execution time. Utilizing the symbol expiration strike price type and execution time the market spread for the specified IBM contract listed at a trade venue can be obtained. For this example the bid is 10.10 and the offer is 10.15 thus the market spread which is also a market characteristic is 0.05.

Next the market participant rate must be determined. Because the origin code indicates that the order is a customer order according the present embodiment a further determination as to whether the order is maker or taker must be made. This determination could be made in a number of different ways including by determining if the order has a book time that is earlier than the execution time. As discussed above if the book time of the order is earlier than the execution time the order is a maker . If not the order is a taker .

Continuing the example the book time for the accessed order is 14 30 and the execution time is 14 45 thus the accessed order is a maker order and is subject to a trade fee. The rate for customer maker orders as set forth in the table above is 17.5 . Thus the fee calculation which yields a trade fee of 0.88 is as follows 0.0 100 17.5 0.88.

According to an embodiment of the present invention rebates are calculated according to the following formula Rebate Market Spread 100 Rebate Rate. According to various embodiments of the present invention the multiplier of 100 could be substituted with any value or no value if for example the value were one. According to the present embodiment the multiplier of 100 was used because an options contract has 100 shares of an underlying as its basis. For example a call option contract for IBM conveys the right to buy 100 shares of IBM at a given strike price. According to another embodiment of the present invention if the rebate were being calculated for a stock trade the multiplier may be the number of shares executed.

For this example the customer order shown above will be assumed to be a taker order and thus would receive a rebate. The market spread is identical to the market spread stated above. According to an embodiment of the present invention the order size rate is a predefined percentage set according to an orders size. For example the following table lists according to an embodiment of the present invention order size rate.

Continuing the example the accessed order had a size of 11 which corresponds to the 15 order size multiplier. Thus the rebate calculation which yields a rebates of 0.75 is as follows 0.05 100 15 0.75.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a maximum trade fee may be set such that if the calculated trade fee exceeded the maximum only the maximum trade fee would be charged for the order execution. For example if a maximum trade fee was set to 0.80 per contract the trade fee of 0.88 calculated above would be reduced to 0.80. The maximum trade fee can be a static number set for all market participants and all orders or the maximum trade fee could be a dynamic number that may be set according to one or more market characteristics or one or more market participant characteristics. For example a maximum trade fee could be reduced as the cumulative trade fees paid by a market participant increased. According to an embodiment of the present invention the degree to which the maximum trade fee is exceeded could be used in determining the fee that should be charged.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a maximum rebate may be set such that if the calculated rebate exceeded the maximum only the maximum rebate would be given. For example if a maximum rebate was set to 0.60 per contract the rebate of 0.75 calculated above would be reduced to 0.60. Alternatively the maximum rebate could be set to a calculated rebate that assumes that the market spread is a particular amount e.g. 3. In another embodiment of the present invention the maximum rebate could be set to a lesser of a fixed number e.g. 0.60 and a calculated rebate that assumes that the market spread is a particular amount e.g. 3.

The maximum rebate can be a static number set for all market participants and all orders or the maximum rebate could be a dynamic number that may be set according to one or more market characteristics or one or more market participant characteristics. For example a maximum rebate could be increased as the cumulative trade fees paid by a market participant increased. According to an embodiment of the present invention the degree to which the maximum rebate is exceeded could be used in determining the rebate that should be given.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system that may be used for one or more of the components shown in or in any other trading system configured to carry out the methods discussed above is shown and is designated . The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols commonly used by investment management companies the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the spirit and scope of this invention.

