---

title: Macrocyclic compounds as protein kinase inhibitors
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09284334&OS=09284334&RS=09284334
owner: Fundación Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Oncologicas Carlos III
number: 09284334
owner_city: Madrid
owner_country: ES
publication_date: 20120518
---
This invention relates to novel pharmaceutically useful compounds which compounds are useful as inhibitors of protein or lipid kinases such as inhibitors of the phosphoinositide 3 OH kinase PI3 kinase family particularly the PI3K class I sub type . The compounds may also be useful as inhibitors of the mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR and may optionally also be useful as inhibitors of a PIM family kinase e.g. PIM 3 and especially PIM 1 . The compounds are of potential utility in the treatment of diseases such as cancer. The invention also relates to the use of such compounds as medicaments to the use of such compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions to pharmaceutical compositions containing them and to synthetic routes for their production.

The malfunctioning of protein kinases PKs is the hallmark of numerous diseases. A large share of the oncogenes and proto oncogenes involved in human cancers code for PKs. The enhanced activities of PKs are also implicated in many non malignant diseases such as benign prostate hyperplasia familial adenomatosis polyposis neuro fibromatosis psoriasis vascular smooth cell proliferation associated with atherosclerosis pulmonary fibrosis arthritis glomerulonephritis and post surgical stenosis and restenosis. PKs are also implicated in inflammatory conditions and in the multiplication of viruses and parasites. PKs may also play a major role in the pathogenesis and development of neurodegenerative disorders.

Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases PI3Ks are a family of lipid and serine threonine kinases that catalyze the phosphorylation of the membrane lipid phosphatidylinositol PI on the 3 OH of the inositol ring to produce phosphoinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphoinositol 3 4 diphosphate PIP and phosphoinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP which act as recruitment sites for various intracellular signalling proteins which in turn form signalling complexes to relay extracellular signals to the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane. These 3 phosphoinositide subtypes function as second messengers in intra cellular signal transduction pathways see e.g. Trends Biochem. Sci 22 87 267 72 1997 by Vanhaesebroeck et al. Chem. Rev. 101 8 2365 80 2001 by Leslie et al 2001 Annu. Rev. Cell. Dev. Boil. 17 615 75 2001 by Katso et al and Cell. Mol. Life. Sci. 59 5 761 79 2002 by Toker et al .

Multiple PI3K isoforms categorized by their catalytic subunits their regulation by corresponding regulatory subunits expression patterns and signalling specific funtions p110 perform this enzymatic reaction Exp. Cell. Res. 25 1 . 239 54 1999 by Vanhaesebroeck and Katso et al. 2001 above .

The closely related isoforms p110 and are ubiquitously expressed while and are more specifically expressed in the haematopoietic cell system smooth muscle cells myocytes and endothelial cells see e.g. Trends Biochem. Sci. 22 7 267 72 1997 by Vanhaesebroeck et al . Their expression might also be regulated in an inducible manner depending on the cellular tissue type and stimuli as well as disease context. Inductibility of protein expression includes synthesis of protein as well as protein stabilization that is in part regulated by association with regulatory subunits.

Eight mammalian PI3Ks have been identified so far including four class I PI3Ks. Class Ia includes PI3K PI3K and PI3K . All of the class Ia enzymes are heterodimeric complexes comprising a catalytic subunit p110 p110 or p110 associated with an SH2 domain containing p85 adapter subunit. Class Ia PI3Ks are activated through tyrosine kinase signalling and are involved in cell proliferation and survival. PI3K and PI3K have also been implicated in tumorigenesis in a variety of human cancers. Thus pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K and PI3K are useful for treating various types of cancer.

The potential role of PI3K over signaling in the development of lymphoid malignancies was initially identified in an experiment by Borlado et al. Borlado L R Redondo C Alvarez B et al. Increased phosphoinositide 3 kinase activity induces a lymphoproliferative disorder and contributes to tumor generation in vivo. FASEB J 2000 14 7 895 903 . In that study a mouse model with PI3K over signaling developed infiltrating lymphoproliferative disorders as well as autoimmune disease. The PI3K pathway plays an important role in the development of B cell malignancies mainly through activation of the p110 subunit. Inhibition of p110 could have a role in the management of B cell malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL plasma cell myeloma PCM and Hodgkin s lymphoma HL . for a review see Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2012 January 21 1 15 22. CAL 101 a phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase p110 delta inhibitor for the treatment of lymphoid malignancies. Castillo J J Furman M Winer E S .

PI3K the only member of the Class Ib PI3Ks consists of a catalytic subunit p110 which is associated with a p110 regulatory subunit. PI3K is regulated by G protein coupled receptors GPCRs via association with subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. PI3K is expressed primarily in hematopoietic cells and cardiomyocytes and is involved in inflammation and mast cell function. Thus pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K are useful for treating a variety of inflammatory diseases allergies and cardiovascular diseases.

These observations show that deregulation of phosphoinositol 3 kinase and the upstream and downstream components of this signalling pathway is one of the most common deregulations associated with human cancers and proliferative diseases see e.g. Parsons et al. Nature 436 792 2005 Hennessey et al. Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 4 988 1004 2005 .

The mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR also known as FK506 binding protein 12 rapamycin associated protein 1 FRAP1 is a protein which in humans is encoded by the FRAP1 gene. mTOR is a serine threonine protein kinase that regulates cell growth cell proliferation cell motility cell survival protein synthesis and transcription. The inhibition of mTORs are believed to be useful for treating various diseases conditions such as cancer for example as described in Easton et al. 2006 . mTOR and cancer therapy . 25 48 6436 46 .

The listing or discussion of an apparently prior published document in this specification should not necessarily be taken as an acknowledgement that the document is part of the state of the art or is common general knowledge.

For the treatment of cancer targeted therapies are becoming more important. That is therapy that has the effect of interfering with specific target molecules that are linked to tumor growth and or carcinogenesis. Such therapy may be more effective than current treatments e.g. chemotherapy and less harmful to normal cells e.g. because chemotherapy has the potential to kill normal cells as well as cancerous cells . This and also the fact that targeted therapies may be selective i.e. it may inhibit a certain targeted molecule more selectively as compared to other molecular targets e.g. as described hereinafter may have the benefit of reducing side effects and may also have the benefit that certain specific cancers can be treated also selectively . The latter may in turn also reduce side effects.

PIM 1 is the protooncogene activated by murine leucemia virus Provirus Integration site for Moloney murine leucemia virus MoMuLV that induces T cell lymphoma Cuypers H. T. et. al. 1984 37 141 150 .

The expression of the protooncogene produces a non transmembrane serine threonine kinase of 313 residues including a kinase domain consisting of 253 amino acid residues. Two isoforms are known through alternative initiation p44 and p33 Saris C. J. M. et al. 1991 10 655 664 .

PIM 1 PIM 2 and PIM 3 phosphorylate protein substrates that are important in cancer neogenesis and progression. For example PIM 1 phosphorylates inter alia p21 Bad c myb Cdc 25A and eIF4B see e.g. Quian K. C. et al 2005 280 7 6130 6137 and references cited therein .

Two PIM 1 homologs have been described Baytel D. 1998 1442 274 285 Feldman J. et al. 1998 273 16535.16543 . PIM 2 and PIM 3 are respectively 58 and 69 identical to PIM 1 at the amino acid level. PIM 1 is mainly expressed in thymus testis and cells of the hematopoietic system Mikkers H. Nawijn M. Allen J. Brouwers C. Verhoeven E. Jonkers J. Berns 2004 24 6104 Bachmann M. Moroy T. 2005 37 726 730. 6115 . PIM 1 expression is directly induced by STAT Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription transcription factors and PIM 1 expression is induced by many cytokine signalling pathways such as interleukins IL granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF and interferon erythropoietin and prolactin Wang Z et al. 2001 2 167 179 .

PIM 1 has been implicated in lymphoma development. Induced expression of PIM 1 and the protooncogene c myc synergise to increase the incidence of lymphomagenesis Breuer M. et al. Nature 1989 340 61 63 van Lohuizen M. et al. Cell 1991 65 737 752 . PIM 1 functions in cytokine signalling pathways and has been shown to play a role in T cell development Schmidt T. et al. EMBO J. 1998 17 5349 5359 Jacobs H. et al. JEM 1999 190 1059 1068 . Signalling through gp130 a subunit common to receptors of the IL 6 cytokine family activates the transcription factor STAT3 and can lead to the proliferation of hematopioetic cells Hirano T. et al. Oncogene 2000 19 2548 2556 . A kinase active PIM 1 appears to be essential for the gp130 mediated STAT3 proliferation signal. In cooperation with the c myc PIM 1 can promote STAT3 mediated cell cycle progression and antiapoptosis Shirogane T. et sl. immunity 1999 11 709 719 . PIM 1 also appears to be necessary for IL 3 stimulated growth in bone marrow derived mast cells Domen J. et al. Blood 1993 82 1445 1452 and survival of FDCP1 cells after IL 3 withdrawal Lilly M. et al. Oncogene 1999 18 4022 4031 .

Additionally control of cell proliferation and survival by PIM 1 may be effected by means of its phosphorylation of the well established cell cycle regulators cdc25 Mochizuki T. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 1999 274 18659 18666 and or p21 Cip1 WAF1 Wang Z. et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 2002 1593 45 55 or phosphorylation of heterochromatin protein 1 a molecule involved in chromatin structure and transcriptional regulation Koike N. et al FEBS Lett. 2000 467 17 21 .

Mice deficient for all three PIM genes showed an impaired response to hematopoietic growth factors and demonstrated that PIM proteins are required for efficient proliferation of peripheral T lymphocyes. In particular it was shown that PIM function is required for efficient cell cycle induction of T cells in response to synergistic T cell receptor and IL 2 signalling. A large number of interaction partners and substrates of PIM 1 have been identified suggesting a pivotal role for PIM 1 in cell cycle control proliferation as well as in cell survival.

The oncogenic potential of this kinase has been first demonstrated in E PIM 1 transgenic mice in which PIM 1 over expression is targeted to the B cell lineage which leads to formation of B cell tumors van Lohuizen M. et al. 1989 56 673 682. Subsequently PIM 1 has been reported to be over expressed in a number of prostate cancers erythroleukemias and several other types of human leukemias Roh M. et al. 2003 63 8079 8084 Valdman A. et al 2004 60 367 371 

For example chromosomal translocation of PIM 1 leads to overexpression of PIM 1 in diffuse large cell lymphoma. Akasaka H. et al. 2000 60 2335 2341 . Furthermore a number of missense mutations in PIM 1 have been reported in lymphomas of the nervous system and AIDS induced non Hodgkins lymphomas that probably affect PIM 1 kinase activity or stability Pasqualucci L. et al 2001 412 341 346 Montesinos Rongen M. et al. 2004 103 1869 1875 Gaidano G. et al. 2003 102 1833 184 . Thus the strong linkage between reported overexpression data and the occurrence of PIM 1 mutations in cancer suggests a dominant role of PIM 1 in tumorigenesis.

Several other protein kinases have been described in the literature in which the activity and or elevated activity of such protein kinases have been implicated in diseases such as cancer in a similar manner to PIM 1 PIM 2 and PIM 3.

It has also been reported that PIM 1 has a role in pulmonary artery hypertension PAH see the journal article by Paulin et al. Signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 PIM 1 axis plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of human pulmonary arterial hypertension .

There is a constant need to provide alternative and or more efficacious inhibitors of protein kinases and particularly inhibitors of PIM 1 PIM 2 and or PIM 3. Such modulators are expected to offer alternative and or improved approaches for the management of medical conditions associated with activity and or elevated activity of PIM 1 PIM 2 and or PIM 3 protein kinases.

For the treatment of cancer targeted therapies are becoming more important. That is therapy that has the effect of interfering with specific target molecules that are linked to tumor growth and or carcinogenesis. Such therapy may be more effective than current treatments e.g. chemotherapy and less harmful to normal cells e.g. because chemotherapy has the potential to kill normal cells as well as cancerous cells . This and also the fact that targeted therapies may be selective i.e. it may inhibit a certain targeted molecule more selectively as compared to other molecular targets e.g. as described hereinafter may have the benefit of reducing side effects and may also have the benefit that certain specific cancers can be treated also selectively . The latter may in turn also reduce side effects.

Hence it is a clear goal of current oncologists to develop targeted therapies e.g. ones that are selective . In this respect it should be pointed out that several different molecular targets may exist that are linked to certain diseases e.g. cancer . However one simply cannot predict if a therapy e.g. a small molecule as a therapeutic that interferes with or inhibits one target molecule could inhibit a different molecular target be it one that will ultimately have the effect of treating the same disease or a different one .

International patent applications WO 2009 055418 WO 2010 108074 WO 2009 040552 WO 2010 112874 and WO 2011 022439 as well as journal article by Okseon Kim et al Design and Synthesis of Imidazopyridine Analogues as Inhibitors of PI3K Signaling and Angiogenesis all disclose various compounds for use as kinase inhibitors. However none of these documents disclose macrocycles.

The listing or discussion of an apparently prior published document in this specification should not necessarily be taken as an acknowledgement that the document is part of the state of the art or is common general knowledge.

in formula IB Wis CH CF or N Wis CH CF or N Wis CRor N Wis C or N Wis CRor N Wis C or N Wis C or N and wherein when Wrepresents N Wand Wrepresent C and Wrepresents C or N then R is hydrogen in all other cases R is absent 

in formula IC Wis CH CR N NR O or S Wis CH CR N NR O or S Wis C or N Wis CRor N Wis CRor N Wis C or N 

in formula ID Wis CH CR N NR O or S Wis CH CR N NR O or S Wis C or N Wis CRor N Wis C or N Wis C or N 

each R R Rand Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or cyclopropyl a 3 to 5 membered heterocycloalkyl group OR CN N R R S O CHor C O CH 

each R R Rand Ris independently selected from Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or cyclopropyl a 3 to 5 membered heterocycloalkyl group or C O CH 

each R R R R R R R R R R R Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen or a substituent selected from halo CN C O N R R C O R N R R C O OR OR OC O R S O CHor Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or Ccycloalkyl and a 3 to 8 membered heterocycloalkyl groups which alkyl and heterocycloalkyl groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

R R R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E or

Rand Rand or Rand Rmay be linked together to form a 4 to 8 e.g. 5 to 6 membered ring optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Calkyl and halo 

R Rand Rindependently represent Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Y represents arylene heteroarylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E heterocycloalkylene or Calkylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Rrepresents hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Z represents A or particularly A wherein each Aindependently represents C R R N R C O O S S O or S O 

each Eindependently represents halo C O R N R C O N R R Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl both of which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

R R Rand Reach independently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

each R R R R R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl both of which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q 

any two E E E Eand or Egroups for example on Calkyl groups e.g. when they are attached to the same or adjacent carbon atoms or on aromatic groups when attached to adjacent atoms may be linked together to form a 3 to 12 membered ring optionally containing one or more e.g. one to three unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J 

each Qand Qindependently represent on each occasion when used herein halo CN N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R C Y N R O R C Y R OC Y OR OC Y N R R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R R SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y N R R S O R SR S O R S O OR Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J 

each Rrepresents Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O 

each R R Rand Rindependently represent on each occasion when used herein hydrogen Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O or

any relevant pair of R Rand R may for example when attached to the same atom adjacent atom i.e. 1 2 relationship or to atoms that are two atoms apart i.e. in a 1 3 relationship be linked together to form e.g. along with the requisite nitrogen atom to which they may be attached a 4 to 20 e.g. 4 to 12 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms for example in addition to those that may already be present e.g. a heteroatom s selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur optionally containing one or more unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O 

 ii Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl both of which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q 

each Qand Qindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo CN N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R N R C Y R NRS O R S O N R R N R C Y N R R S O R SR S O R Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms or heterocycolalkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from halo ORand N R R 

each R R Rand Rindependently represents on each occasion when used herein hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from fluoro ORand N R R or

any relevant pair of R Rand Rmay for example when attached to the same or adjacent atoms be linked together to form a 3 to 8 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms for example in addition to those that may already be present heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur optionally containing one or more unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Calkyl 

R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms 

which compounds esters amides solvates and salts are referred to hereinafter as the compounds of the invention .

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include acid addition salts and base addition salts. Such salts may be formed by conventional means for example by reaction of a free acid or a free base form of a compound of formula I with one or more equivalents of an appropriate acid or base optionally in a solvent or in a medium in which the salt is insoluble followed by removal of said solvent or said medium using standard techniques e.g. in vacuo by freeze drying or by filtration . Salts may also be prepared by exchanging a counter ion of a compound of the invention in the form of a salt with another counter ion for example using a suitable ion exchange resin.

By pharmaceutically acceptable ester amide solvate or salt thereof we include salts of such an ester or amide and solvates of such an ester amide or salt. For instance pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides such as those defined herein may be mentioned as well as pharmaceutically acceptable solvates or salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides of the compounds of the invention are also included within the scope of the invention. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides of compounds of formula I may have an appropriate group for example an acid group converted to the appropriate ester or amide. For example pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acids that may be mentioned include optionally substituted Calkyl Caryl and or Caryl Calkyl esters. Pharmaceutically acceptable amides of carboxylic acids that may be mentioned include those of the formula C O N R R in which Rand Rindependently represent optionally substituted Calkyl Caryl or Caryl Calkylene . Preferably Calkyl groups that may be mentioned in the context of such pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides are not cyclic e.g. linear and or branched.

Preferably specific esters and amides of compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those esters and amides those mentioned herein in respect of compounds of formula I or compounds of the invention .

Further compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include carbamate carboxamido or ureido derivatives e.g. such derivatives of existing amino functional groups.

For the purposes of this invention therefore prodrugs of compounds of the invention are also included within the scope of the invention.

The term prodrug of a relevant compound of the invention includes any compound that following oral or parenteral administration is metabolised in vivo to form that compound in an experimentally detectable amount and within a predetermined time e.g. within a dosing interval of between 6 and 24 hours i.e. once to four times daily . For the avoidance of doubt the term parenteral administration includes all forms of administration other than oral administration.

Prodrugs of compounds of the invention may be prepared by modifying functional groups present on the compound in such a way that the modifications are cleaved in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. The modifications typically are achieved by synthesising the parent compound with a prodrug substituent. Prodrugs include compounds of the invention wherein a hydroxyl amino sulfhydryl carboxy or carbonyl group in a compound of the invention is bonded to any group that may be cleaved in vivo to regenerate the free hydroxyl amino sulfhydryl carboxy or carbonyl group respectively.

Examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to esters and carbamates of hydroxy functional groups esters groups of carboxyl functional groups N acyl derivatives and N Mannich bases. General information on prodrugs may be found e.g. in Bundegaard H. Design of Prodrugs p. 1 92 Elesevier New York Oxford 1985 .

Compounds of the invention may contain double bonds and may thus exist as E entgegen and Z zusammen geometric isomers about each individual double bond. Positional isomers may also be embraced by the compounds of the invention. All such isomers e.g. if a compound of the invention incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms are embraced and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of the invention e.g. single positional isomers and mixtures of positional isomers may be included within the scope of the invention .

Compounds of the invention may also exhibit tautomerism. All tautomeric forms or tautomers and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerisations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganisation of some of the bonding electrons.

Compounds of the invention may also contain one or more asymmetric carbon atoms and may therefore exhibit optical and or diastereoisomerism. Diastereoisomers may be separated using conventional techniques e.g. chromatography or fractional crystallisation. The various stereoisomers may be isolated by separation of a racemic or other mixture of the compounds using conventional e.g. fractional crystallisation or HPLC techniques. Alternatively the desired optical isomers may be made by reaction of the appropriate optically active starting materials under conditions which will not cause racemisation or epimerisation i.e. a chiral pool method by reaction of the appropriate starting material with a chiral auxiliary which can subsequently be removed at a suitable stage by derivatisation i.e. a resolution including a dynamic resolution for example with a homochiral acid followed by separation of the diastereomeric derivatives by conventional means such as chromatography or by reaction with an appropriate chiral reagent or chiral catalyst all under conditions known to the skilled person.

All stereoisomers including but not limited to diastereoisomers enantiomers and atropisomers and mixtures thereof e.g. racemic mixtures are included within the scope of the invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature or the most abundant one found in nature . All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified herein are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and for substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in e.g. the schemes and or Examples hereinbelow by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Unless otherwise specified Calkyl groups where q is the upper limit of the range defined herein may be straight chain or when there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of two or three as appropriate of carbon atoms be branched chain and or cyclic so forming a C cycloalkyl group . Such cycloalkyl groups may be monocyclic or bicyclic and may further be bridged. Further when there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of four of carbon atoms such groups may also be part cyclic. Such alkyl groups may also be saturated or when there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of two of carbon atoms be unsaturated forming for example a Calkenyl or a Calkynyl group .

Unless otherwise stated the term Calkylene where q is the upper limit of the range defined herein may be straight chain or when there is a sufficient number of carbon atoms be saturated or unsaturated so forming for example an alkenylene or alkynylene linker group . However such Calkylene groups are preferably not branched. Such alkylene groups may be appropriate linker groups that are a part of the macrocyclic structure of formula I. For the avoidance of doubt any optional substituents on the alkylene groups are not an integral part of the linking moiety i.e. when Y represents substituted alkylene then the substituent s are not linked to X or Z but are located on the alkylene moiety.

Ccycloalkyl groups where q is the upper limit of the range that may be specifically mentioned may be monocyclic or bicyclic alkyl groups which cycloalkyl groups may further be bridged so forming for example fused ring systems such as three fused cycloalkyl groups . Such cycloalkyl groups may be saturated or unsaturated containing one or more double or triple bonds forming for example a cycloalkenyl or cycloalkynyl group . Substituents may be attached at any point on the cycloalkyl group. Further where there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of four such cycloalkyl groups may also be part cyclic. For the avoidance of doubt optional substituents may also be other cyclic groups which may be attached via a single carbon atom common to both rings so forming a spiro cycle.

Heterocycloalkyl groups that may be mentioned include non aromatic monocyclic and bicyclic heterocycloalkyl groups in which at least one e.g. one to four of the atoms in the ring system is other than carbon i.e. a heteroatom and in which the total number of atoms in the ring system is from five to ten between five and ten . Such heterocycloalkyl groups may also be bridged. Further such heterocycloalkyl groups may be saturated or unsaturated containing one or more double and or triple bonds forming for example a Cheterocycloalkenyl where q is the upper limit of the range or a Cheterocycloalkynyl group. Cheterocycloalkyl groups that may be mentioned include 7 azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl 6 azabicyclo 3.1.1 heptanyl 6 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl aziridinyl azetidinyl dihydropyranyl dihydropyridyl dihydropyrrolyl including 2 5 dihydropyrrolyl dioxolanyl including 1 3 dioxolanyl dioxanyl including 1 3 dioxanyl and 1 4 dioxanyl dithianyl including 1 4 dithianyl dithiolanyl including 1 3 dithiolanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl morpholinyl 7 oxabicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl 6 oxabicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl oxetanyl oxiranyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyranyl pyrazolidinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl quinuclidinyl sulfolanyl 3 sulfolenyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyridyl such as 1 2 3 4 tetrahydropyridyl and 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridyl thietanyl thiiranyl thiolanyl thiomorpholinyl trithianyl including 1 3 5 trithianyl tropanyl and the like. Substituents on heterocycloalkyl groups may where appropriate be located on any atom in the ring system including a heteroatom. The point of attachment of heterocycloalkyl groups may be via any atom in the ring system including where appropriate a heteroatom such as a nitrogen atom or an atom on any fused carbocyclic ring that may be present as part of the ring system. Heterocycloalkyl groups may also be in the N or S oxidised form i.e. those heteroatoms may be substituted with one or two O substituents as appropriate . As stated herein other carbon atoms of the heterocycloalkyl groups mentioned herein may also be substituted by one or more O substituents. For the avoidance of doubt optional substituents may also be other cyclic groups which may be attached via a single carbon atom common to both rings so forming a spiro cycle .

The term heterocycloalkylene refers to a heterocycloalkyl group that is a part of a linker group. Each hyphen therefore represents the point of attachment to the moieties to which they are attached. For instance when Y represents heterocycloalkylene then the hyphens represent the point of attachment to X and Z . The point of attachment may be via any appropriate atom e.g. a nitrogen or carbon atom of that heterocycloalkyl moiety . Where it is indicated that such a moiety may be substituted the optional substituents are not an integral part of the macrocycle i.e. in the case where Y represents substituted heterocycloalkylene then those substituents are not directly linked to X or Z .

For the avoidance of doubt the term bicyclic e.g. when employed in the context of heterocycloalkyl groups refers to groups in which the second ring of a two ring system is formed between two adjacent atoms of the first ring. The term bridged e.g. when employed in the context of cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl groups refers to monocyclic or bicyclic groups in which two non adjacent atoms are linked by either an alkylene or heteroalkylene chain as appropriate .

Aryl groups that may be mentioned include Caryl groups. Such groups may be monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic and have from 6 to 10 between 6 and 10 ring carbon atoms in which at least one ring is aromatic. Caryl groups include phenyl naphthyl and the like such as 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl. The point of attachment of aryl groups may be via any atom of the ring system. However when aryl groups are bicyclic or tricyclic they are linked to the rest of the molecule via an aromatic ring. For the avoidance of doubt optional substituents include those defined herein and also include O substituents that may be attached to any non aromatic rings of a polycyclic e.g. bicyclic aryl group however in an embodiment O substituents are not included . For the avoidance of doubt optional substituents may also be other cyclic groups which may be when attached to a non aromatic ring of an aryl group attached via a single carbon atom common to both rings so forming a spiro cycle .

Unless otherwise specified the term heteroaryl when used herein refers to an aromatic group containing one or more heteroatom s e.g. one to four heteroatoms preferably selected from N O and S. Heteroaryl groups include those which have from 5 to 10 between 5 and 10 members and may be monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic provided that at least one of the rings is aromatic so forming for example a mono bi or tricyclic heteroaromatic group . However when heteroaryl groups are bicyclic or tricyclic they are linked to the rest of the molecule via an aromatic ring. Heteroaryl groups that may be mentioned include acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzodioxanyl benzodioxepinyl benzodioxolyl including 1 3 benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl benzothiadiazolyl including 2 1 3 benzothiadiazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxadiazolyl including 2 1 3 benzoxadiazolyl benzoxazinyl including 3 4 dihydro 2H 1 4 benzoxazinyl benzoxazolyl benzomorpholinyl benzoselena diazolyl including 2 1 3 benzoselenadiazolyl benzothienyl carbazolyl chromanyl cinnolinyl furanyl imidazolyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridyl indazolyl indolinyl indolyl isobenzofuranyl isochromanyl isoindolinyl isoindolyl isoquinolinyl isothiaziolyl isothiochromanyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl including 1 6 naphthyridinyl or preferably 1 5 naphthyridinyl and 1 8 naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl and 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxazolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl quinolizinyl quinoxalinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl including 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl and 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl including 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl and 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl including 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl and 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thiochromanyl thiophenetyl thienyl triazolyl including 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl and 1 3 4 triazolyl and the like. Substituents on heteroaryl groups may where appropriate be located on any atom in the ring system including a heteroatom. For the avoidance of doubt optional substituents include those defined herein and also include O substituents that may be attached to any non aromatic rings of a polycyclic e.g. bicyclic heteroaryl group but in an embodiment O substituents are not included . For the avoidance of doubt optional substituents may also be other cyclic groups which may be when attached to a non aromatic ring of a heteroaryl group attached via a single carbon atom common to both rings so forming a spiro cycle . The point of attachment of heteroaryl groups may be via any atom in the ring system including where appropriate a heteroatom such as a nitrogen atom or an atom on any fused carbocyclic ring that may be present as part of the ring system. Heteroaryl groups may also be in the N or S oxidised form.

The terms arylene and heteroarylene refer to aryl heteroaryl groups that are a part of a linker group. Each hyphen therefore represents the point of attachment to the moieties to which they are attached. For instance when Y represents arylene and heteroarylene then the hyphens represent the point of attachment to X and Z . The point of attachment may be via any appropriate atom e.g. a nitrogen or carbon atom of those moieties . Where it is indicated that those moieties may be substituted the optional substituents are not an integral part of the macrocycle i.e. in the case where Y represents substituted arylene or heteroarylene then those substituents are not directly linked to X or Z .

It may be specifically stated that the heteroaryl group is monocyclic or bicyclic. In the case where it is specified that the heteroaryl is bicyclic then it may consist of a five six or seven membered monocyclic ring e.g. a monocyclic heteroaryl ring fused with another a five six or seven membered ring e.g. a monocyclic aryl or heteroaryl ring .

Heteroatoms that may be mentioned include phosphorus silicon boron and preferably oxygen nitrogen and sulphur.

Linker groups for example as defined by X and Z are specified with hyphens s at the respective ends depicting the points of attachment with the rest of the compound of formula I. For the avoidance of doubt in relation to the linker groups defined by Z the first hyphen of the linking moiety is the point at which that moiety links to the requisite phenyl ring bearing Rand Rgroups and the last hyphen depicts the linking point to the Y group. Similarly for the X linker group the first hyphen represents the point of attachment to the Y group and the last hyphen represents the point of attachment to ring A B.

For the avoidance of doubt in cases in which the identity of two or more substituents in a compound of the invention may be the same the actual identities of the respective substituents are not in any way interdependent. For example in the situation in which there is more than one Qsubstituent present then those Qsubstituents may be the same or different. Further in the case where there are two Qsubstituents present in which one represents ORand the other represents C O R then those Rgroups are not to be regarded as being interdependent.

For the avoidance of doubt in the instance where cyclic substituents e.g. cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl groups are present on groups such as alkyl groups then those cyclic substituents may be attached to the same carbon atom so forming for example a spiro cyclic group.

All individual features e.g. preferred features mentioned herein may be taken in isolation or in combination with any other feature including preferred feature mentioned herein hence preferred features may be taken in conjunction with other preferred features or independently of them .

The skilled person will appreciate that compounds of the invention that are the subject of this invention include those that are stable. That is compounds of the invention include those that are sufficiently robust to survive isolation from e.g. a reaction mixture to a useful degree of purity.

For instance it is indicated herein that Amay represent various integers. However certain integers may not be linked together if unstable groups are formed e.g. O may not be linked to S etc. The skilled person will appreciate the combinations that are possible in order for the group to be sufficiently stable and or for the rules of valency to be adhered to.

For the avoidance of doubt when a term such as Eto E is employed herein this will be understood by the skilled person to mean E E Eand E inclusively. Likewise a term such as Rto R when employed herein will be understood by the skilled person to mean every single Rto Rgroup i.e. R R R R R R R R R R R R and R inclusively.

Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E and or

Rrepresents a substituent selected from hydrogen or particularly Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl and Ccycloalkyl such as cyclopropyl which alkyl groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E e.g. fluoro halo CN N R Rand OR 

when Rrepresents N R R then Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

when Rrepresents OR then Rpreferably represents Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

more preferably Rrepresents a substituent selected from hydrogen OCH CH or particularly OH or preferably halo CN OCH OCHCH N R R e.g. NH CH CHCHand CF.

Other preferred compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those in which ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of the following structure 

Other preferred compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those in which ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of the following structure 

In some embodiments these fused bicyclic groups are unsubstituted. In other embodiments they are substituted as described above in connection with rings A and B. In particular embodiments the above listed fused bicyclic groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from halo Calkyl or CN.

Particularly for compounds in which ring A and ring B together represent a fused bicyclic group of formula IC formula IC represents 

Rand R particularly R Rand R independently represent hydrogen one of W Wand W preferably W may represent N or CH and the others represent CH 

in formula IB Wis CF or preferably CH or N Wis CF or preferably CH Wis CRor N Wis C or N Wis CR Wis C or N Wis C 

in formula IC Wis O or particularly CR preferably CH or S Wis CR preferably CH or S Wis C Wis N or CR preferably N Wis CR Wis C 

Y represents arylene e.g. phenylene heteroarylene e.g. 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl thiophenyl i.e. thienyl furanyl or particularly pyridyl or pyrazolyl heterocycloalkylene e.g. piperidinyl or morpholinyl optionally containing a double bond or Calkylene all of which groups are optionally substituted as defined herein e.g. by E Eand if appropriate by O 

more preferably Y represents a cyclic group e.g. optionally substituted arylene heteroarylene or heterocycloalkylene 

more preferably still Y represents one of the following groups in which preferably the upper squiggly line represents the point of attachment to the Z group 

more preferably still Y represents one of the following groups in which preferably the upper squiggly line represents the point of attachment to the X group 

or particularly Y represents one of the following groups in which preferably the upper squiggly line represents the point of attachment to the X group 

X may represent a linker group i.e. other than a direct bond particularly in the case when Y represents a non cyclic group e.g. acyclic Calkylene optionally substituted as defined herein 

Rrepresents hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl preferably unsubstituted more preferably R Rand Reach independently represent Calkyl or particularly hydrogen 

each Eindependently represents halo C O R Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups may be attached to a single carbon atom and both of which are optionally substituted by one or more halo e.g. fluoro atoms more preferably each Erepresents halo or unsubstituted Calkyl and or each R R R R R R R R R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms.

E E E Eand Eindependently represent on each occasion when used herein Qor C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and preferably Q most preferably such Eto Egroups represent Q 

each Qand Qindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo CN N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R N R C Y R N R C Y OR NRS O R S O N R R S O R SR S O R or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from fluoro 

each R R Rand Rindependently represent on each occasion when used herein hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O or

any pair of R Rand R e.g. Rand R may be linked together to form e.g. when attached to the same nitrogen atom along with the requisite nitrogen atom to which they are attached a 4 to 8 membered ring optionally containing one or more double bonds e.g. one or two and which ring may contain a further two or preferably one heteroatom preferably selected from nitrogen and especially oxygen and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O 

each J J Jand Jindependently represents on each occasion when used herein I Q or ii C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q more preferably each J J Jand J e.g. each Jand J independently represents Q 

each Qand Q e.g. Q independently represents N R R ORor preferably halo e.g. fluoro or Calkyl e.g. methyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms 

each R R Rand Rsubstituent independently represents on each occasion when used herein hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from fluoro 

Preferred aryl arylene and heteroaryl heteroarylene groups that Y may independently represent include optionally substituted 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl or particularly optionally substituted phenyl naphthyl pyrrolyl furanyl thienyl imidazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl pyrazolyl pyridyl indazolyl indolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinolizinyl benzoxazolyl benzofuranyl isobenzofuranyl chromanyl benzothienyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl 1 3 benzodioxolyl tetrazolyl benzothiazolyl and or benzodioxanyl.

each E E E Eand Eindependently represent C e.g. C alkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and preferably Q or Eto Eindependently and more preferably represent Q in which Eis preferably halo e.g. fluoro each Qand Q e.g. Q independently represent halo e.g fluoro C Y OR N R R C Y N R Ror N R C Y OR preferably halo e.g fluoro C Y OR N R Ror C Y N R R 

Rand R when attached to the same nitrogen atom are linked together to form a 5 or 6 membered ring optionally containing a further heteroatom e.g. nitrogen or preferably oxygen so forming e.g. a morpholinyl group 

each R R R R R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms.

ring A B represents formula IA formula IB or formula ID optionally substituted as indicated above especially one of the following formulae optionally substituted as indicated above 

Rrepresents a substituent selected from OR in which Rpreferably represents hydrogen or especially Calkyl which is preferably unsubstituted e.g. Ris most preferably unsubstituted Calkyl particularly unsubstituted Calkyl e.g. methyl 

Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen Calkyl optionally substituted by halo e.g. fluoro or a substituent selected from halo e.g. fluoro 

Y preferably represents pyrazolyl e.g. 1 4 linked i.e. linked at the 4 position to the requisite bicycle of formula I 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl e.g. 2 7 linked i.e. linked at the 7 position to the requisite bicycle of formula I thiophenyl e.g. 2 5 linked furanyl e.g. 2 5 linked dihydropiperidinyl e.g. 1 4 linked i.e. linked at the 4 position to the requisite bicycle of formula I morpholinyl e.g. 2 4 linked i.e. linked at the 4 position to the requisite bicycle of formula I or particularly pyridyl e.g. 3 5 linked or 2 4 linked in the latter case linked to the requisite bicycle of formula I at the 4 position of the pyridyl phenyl 1 3 linked piperidinyl 1 4 linked i.e. linked at the 1 position to the requisite bicycle of formula I or unsubstituted acyclic Calkylene 

when Y represents arylene or heteroarylene such groups are optionally substituted by one or more e.g. two or preferably one substituent s selected from E which Esubstituent may be located at either of the positions ortho to the point of attachment to the requisite bicycle of formula I 

when Y represents pyridyl or pyridylene then that moiety is linked to Z and X via non adjacent atoms that are in a 1 3 relative relationship 

when Y represents arylene heteroarylene or heterocycloalkylene then X preferably represents a direct bond 

Z represents C O T or C O N R T in which Trepresents CH T e.g. CH T CH T or particularly T and Trepresents a direct bond or C O N H CH or particularly Z represents C O N H T in which Trepresents CH T e.g. CH T or preferably CH T and Trepresents a direct bond or C O N H CH .

In certain embodiments of the invention ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of any one of the following formulae 

and wherein when Wrepresents N and Wand Wrepresent C then R is hydrogen in all other cases R is absent 

each R R Rand Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or cyclopropyl OR or CN 

each R R R R R R R R Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen or a substituent selected from halo C O R N R R ORor Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or Ccycloalkyl which alkyl group is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Y represents arylene heteroarylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E heterocycloalkylene or Calkylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Rrepresents hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

R Rand Reach independently represents hydrogen halo C O Ror Calkyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

each R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms and or

each E E E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo or Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl both of which are optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms.

In certain embodiments of the invention ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of any one of the following formulae 

in formula IB Wis CH CF or N Wis CRor N Wis C or N Wis C or N and wherein when Wrepresents N and Wand Wrepresent C then R is hydrogen in all other cases R is absent 

each R R Rand Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or cyclopropyl OR or CN 

each R R R R R R R R R Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen or a substituent selected from halo C O R N R R ORor Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or Ccycloalkyl which alkyl group is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Y represents arylene heteroarylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E heterocycloalkylene or Calkylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Rrepresents hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E 

Rand Reach independently represents hydrogen halo C O Ror Calkyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

each R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms and or

each E E E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo Calkyl O Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter three groups are optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms.

In a further embodiment of the invention ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of any one of the following formulae 

in formula IB Wis CH or N Wis CH or N Wis C or N Wis C or N and wherein when Wrepresents N and Wand Wrepresent C then R is hydrogen in all other cases R is absent 

each R R R R R are independently selected from hydrogen or a substituent selected from halo ORor Calkyl 

Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

Y represents arylene heteroarylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E heterocycloalkylene or Calkylene which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

R Rand Reach independently represents hydrogen halo Calkyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

each E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo Calkyl O Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter three groups are optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms.

In a further embodiment of the invention ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of any one of the following formulae 

each R R R R R are independently selected from hydrogen or a substituent selected from halo ORor Calkyl 

Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

Y represents phenyl pyridinyl piperidinyl pyrazolyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl or thiophenyl which groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E tetrahydropyridinyl morpholinyl or pyrrolidinyl which latter three groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

R Rand Reach independently represents hydrogen halo Calkyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms 

each E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo Calkyl O Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter three groups are optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms.

In a further embodiment of the invention ring A and ring B represent a fused bicyclic group of any one of the following formulae 

Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

Y represents pyridyl thiophenyl which two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E morpholinyl or pyrrolidinyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

each E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter three groups are optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms.

Particularly preferred compounds of the invention include those of the examples described hereinafter.

Compounds of the invention may be made in accordance with techniques that are well known to those skilled in the art for example as described hereinafter.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a compound of formula I which process comprises 

 i compounds of formula I in which Z contains a C O N R or N R C O moiety may be prepared by intramolecular reaction of a compound of formula II 

wherein Zand Zindependently represent C O OH N R H or a partial Z moiety with a terminal C O OH group or terminal N R H group or derivatives thereof such as carboxylic acid ester derivatives and wherein one of Zand Zcontains the C O OH group or derivative and the other contains the N R H group or derivative and ring A ring B R R R R R X and Y are as hereinbefore defined which reaction is an amide coupling which may be performed under standard reaction conditions for instance the reaction may be performed in the presence of a suitable coupling reagent e.g. 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide or hydrochloride thereof N N disuccinimidyl carbonate benzotriazol 1 yloxytris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate 2 1H benzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexa fluorophosphate benzotriazol 1 yloxytris pyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluoro phosphate bromo tris pyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate 2 1H benzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetra fluorocarbonate 1 cyclohexyl carbodiimide 3 propyloxymethyl polystyrene O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate and or 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole optionally in the presence of a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride sodium bicarbonate potassium carbonate pyridine triethylamine dimethylaminopyridine diisopropylamine diisopropylethylamine sodium hydroxide potassium tert butoxide dimethylaminopyridine and or lithium diisopropylamide or variants thereof an appropriate solvent e.g. tetrahydrofuran pyridine toluene dichloromethane chloroform acetonitrile dimethylformamide trifluoromethylbenzene dioxane or triethylamine and a further additive e.g. 1 hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate . Preferred amide coupling reaction conditions include reaction in the presence of a coupling reagent HATU PyBOP and or HOAt in the presence of a base preferably DIPEA and optionally DMAP and solvent preferably DMF . In the case when reaction is performed on an ester functional group e.g. C O OCHor C O OCHCH in the presence of e.g. trimethylaluminium or alternatively the C O OH group may first be activated to the corresponding acyl halide e.g C O Cl by treatment with oxalyl chloride thionyl chloride phosphorous pentachloride phosphorous oxychloride or the like under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art e.g. optionally in the presence of a suitable solvent suitable base and or in an inert atmosphere 

 ii compounds of formula I in which Z contains O S or N R may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula III 

wherein Zrepresents OH SH N R H or L in which Lis a suitable leaving group such as chloro bromo iodo or a sulfonate group such as OS O CF OS O CHor OS O PhMe or Zcontains a partial Z moiety with a terminal OH N R H or Lgroup and Zrepresents L HO HS or H R N as appropriate or a partial Z moiety with a terminal L HO or H R N Lis a suitable leaving group such as one defined for L and ring A ring B R R R R R X and Y are as hereinbefore defined in which one of Zand Zcontains a OH SH or N R H moiety and the other contains the Lor Lmoiety which reaction may be performed under standard nucleophilic substitution reaction conditions for instance in the presence of a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride sodium bicarbonate potassium carbonate pyrrolidinopyridine pyridine triethylamine tributylamine trimethylamine dimethylaminopyridine diisopropylamine diisopropylethylamine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene sodium hydroxide N ethyldiisopropylamine N methylpolystyrene 4 methylamino pyridine potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide potassium tert butoxide lithium diisopropylamide lithium 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine or mixtures thereof and an appropriate solvent e.g. tetrahydrofuran pyridine toluene dichloromethane chloroform acetonitrile dimethylformamide trifluoromethylbenzene dioxane or triethylamine . However if there is a Lor Lgroup directly attached to an aromatic ring and reaction is performed with a nucleophilic OH or N R H or the like moiety the reaction may be performed in the presence of an appropriate metal catalyst or a salt or complex thereof such as Cu Cu OAc CuI or CuI diamine complex copper tris triphenyl phosphine bromide Pd OAc tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 Pd dba or NiCland an optional additive such as PhP 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl xantphos NaI or an appropriate crown ether such as 18 crown 6 benzene in the presence of an appropriate base such as NaH EtN pyridine N N dimethylethylenediamine NaCO KCO KPO CsCO t BuONa or t BuOK or a mixture thereof optionally in the presence of 4 molecular sieves in a suitable solvent e.g. dichloromethane dioxane toluene ethanol isopropanol dimethylformamide ethylene glycol ethylene glycol dimethyl ether water dimethylsulfoxide acetonitrile dimethylacetamide N methylpyrrolidinone tetrahydrofuran or a mixture thereof . This reaction may be carried out under microwave irradiation reaction conditions or alternatively the reaction may be performed in the absence of other reagents such as catalyst base and even solvent 

 iii compounds of formula I in which R R Rand or Rrepresent optionally substituted Cor Calkyl may be prepared by reaction of a corresponding compound of formula I in which R R Rand or Rrepresent hydrogen with a compound of formula IV L R IV

wherein Rrepresents R R Ror R as appropriate required and Lrepresents a suitable leaving group as defined for L e.g. under standard alkylation reaction conditions such as reaction in the presence of base and solvent e.g. under conditions such as those mentioned in step ii above or with a compound of formula V H O C R V

wherein Rrepresents Cor Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more halo atoms under reductive amination reaction conditions for example in the presence of a chemoselective reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride or alternatively as a two step process including condensation and then reduction which reduction step in this instance may be performed in the presence of a stronger reducing agent such as sodium borohydride or LiAlH 

 iv compounds of formula I containing a N R CH moiety e.g. when Z contains a N R CH moiety may be prepared by reduction of a corresponding compound of formula I containing a N R C O moiety e.g. when Z contains a N R C O moiety for example in the presence of appropriate reduction reaction conditions e.g. in the presence of a chemoselective reducing agent such as LiAlH.

wherein Lrepresents a suitable leaving group such as such as iodo bromo chloro a sulfonate group e.g. OS O CF OS O CHor OS O PhMe or a sulfide group e.g. S Calkyl such as SCH Zrepresents Zor Z depending on whether compound of formula II or III is being prepared and R R R R Rand ring A B are as hereinbefore defined with a compound of formula VII L X Y Z VII

and X and Y are as hereinbefore defined under standard reaction conditions for instance for b above under reaction conditions such as those hereinbefore described in respect of process ii above e.g. catalytic reaction conditions or for a above may be performed for example in the presence of a suitable catalyst system e.g. a metal or a salt or complex thereof such as Pd CuI Pd C PdCl Pd OAc Pd PhP Cl Pd PhP i.e. palladium tetrakistriphenylphosphine Pd dba and or NiCl preferred catalysts include palladium and a ligand such as PdCl dppf .DCM t BuP CH P PhP AsPh P o Tol 1 2 bis diphenylphosphino ethane 2 2 bis di tert butylphosphino 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 bi naphthyl 1 l bis diphenyl phosphino ferrocene 1 3 bis diphenylphosphino propane xantphos or a mixture thereof preferred ligands include PdCl dppf .DCM together with a suitable base such as NaCO KPO CsCO NaOH KOH KCO CsF EtN i Pr NEt t BuONa or t BuOK or mixtures thereof preferred bases include NaCOand KCO in a suitable solvent such as dioxane toluene ethanol dimethylformamide dimethoxyethane ethylene glycol dimethyl ether water dimethylsulfoxide acetonitrile dimethylacetamide N methylpyrrolidinone tetrahydrofuran or mixtures thereof. When Lrepresents a sulfide e.g. SCH then an additive such as CuMeSal copper I 3 methylsalicylate or CuTC copper I thiophene 2 carboxylate may also be employed. The reaction may be carried out for example at room temperature or above e.g. at a high temperature such as at about the reflux temperature of the solvent system . Alternative reaction conditions include microwave irradiation conditions for example at elevated temperature e.g. of about 130 C.

Alternatively compounds of formula II or III may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula VIII 

wherein Lrepresents OH or chloro bromo or iodo preferably chloro and Z R R Rand Rare as hereinbefore defined for example under reaction conditions such as those hereinbefore described in respect of process step i above sulfonamide coupling reaction conditions .

Compounds of formula II or III in which X represents C O N R or N R C O N R may be prepared by reaction of a corresponding compound of formula X 

wherein Xrepresents C O or C O N R and Lrepresents a suitable leaving group such as one hereinbefore defined in respect of L and Y and Zare as hereinbefore defined under standard reaction conditions such as those hereinbefore described in respect of process step i 

Compounds of formula II or III in which X represents N R C O may be prepared by reaction of a corresponding compound of formula XII 

wherein Lrepresents OH or a suitable leaving groups such as one hereinbefore defined for L e.g. chloro and Z R R R Rand ring A B are as hereinbefore defined with a compound of formula XIII HN R Y Z XIII

wherein R Y and Zare as hereinbefore defined under standard reaction conditions such as those hereinbefore described in respect of process step i .

wherein L Rand ring A B are as hereinbefore defined with a compound of formula IX as hereinbefore defined under reaction conditions such as those hereinbefore described in respect of process step i above sulfonamide coupling reaction conditions .

Compounds of formula VI and XIV in which Lrepresents halo may be prepared by reaction of a compound corresponding to a compound of formula VI and XIV but in which Lrepresents hydrogen with a source of halide ions for instance an electrophile that provides a source of iodide ions includes iodine diiodoethane diiodotetrachloroethane or preferably N iodosuccinimide a source of bromide ions includes N bromosuccinimide and bromine and a source of chloride ions includes phosphorus oxychloride POCl N chlorosuccinimide chlorine and iodine monochloride.

Other compounds of formula VI and XIV may also be prepared under standard conditions for instance such as those described herein for example for synthesis of those compounds in which Lrepresents a sulfonate group reaction of a corresponding compound but in which Lrepresents OH with an appropriate sulfonyl halide under standard reaction conditions such as in the presence of a base e.g. as hereinbefore described in respect of preparation of compounds of formula I process step ii .

Compounds of formula XII may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula VI as hereinbefore defined with an appropriate reagent for the introduction of the C O OH or C O Cl group for instance by metallation of the Lgroup e.g. conversion to the corresponding lithiated derivative and then quench with e.g. COor phosgene triphosgene or the like under conditions known to those skilled in the art.

wherein Lrepresents a suitable leaving group such as one hereinbefore defined by L and L ring A B are as hereinbefore defined with a compound of formula XVI 

wherein Lrepresents a suitable group such as one hereinbefore defined by L and Ris as hereinbefore defined under standard reaction conditions known to those skilled in the art for example those described in respect of preparation of compounds of formula II or III reaction of a compound of formula VI and VII see step a .

The core bicyclic ring structures A B e.g. of formulae VI X and XIV may be commercially available or prepared in accordance with known standard procedures e.g. starting from known commercially available starting materials for instance they may be prepared in accordance with the procedures described in e.g. WO2009 040552 WO2008 150827 and WO 2010 112874.

Certain other intermediate compounds may also be commercially available known in the literature or may be obtained either by analogy with the processes described herein or by conventional synthetic procedures in accordance with standard techniques from available starting materials using appropriate reagents and reaction conditions. Further the skilled person will appreciate that where reactions to introduce the 3 pyridyl moiety of compounds of formula I is described similar reactions may be performed to introduce the X Y Z moiety in compounds of formula I and vice versa. Further processes to prepare compounds of formula I may be described in the literature for example in 

Other specific transformation steps including those that may be employed in order to form compounds of formula I that may be mentioned include 

 i reductions for example of a carboxylic acid or ester to either an aldehyde or an alcohol using appropriate reducing conditions e.g. C O OH or an ester thereof may be converted to a C O H or CH OH group using DIBAL and LiAlH respectively or similar chemoselective reducing agents 

 ii reductions of an aldehyde C O H group to an alcohol group CHOH using appropriate reduction conditions such as those mentioned at point i above 

 iii oxidations for example of a moiety containing an alcohol group e.g. CHOH to an aldehyde e.g. C O H or of a S moiety to a S O or S O moiety or the reverse reduction reaction for example in the presence of a suitable oxidising agent e.g. MnOor mcpba or the like 

 iv reductive amination of an aldehyde and an amine under appropriate reaction conditions for example in one pot procedure in the presence of an appropriate reducing agent such as a chemoselective reducing agent such as sodium cyanoborohydride or preferably sodium triacetoxyborohydride or the like. Alternatively such reactions may be performed in two steps for example a condensation step in the presence of e.g. a dehydrating agent such as trimethyl orthoformate or MgSOor molecular sieves etc followed by a reduction step e.g. by reaction in the presence of a reducing agent such as a chemoselective one mentioned above or NaBH AlH or the like for instance the conversion of NHto N H isopropyl by condensation in the presence of acetone HC C O CH followed by reduction in the presence of a reducing agent such as sodium cyanaoborohydride i.e. overall a reductive amination 

 v formation of an amide or sulfonamide for example by reaction of a sulfonyl chloride with an amine or by an amide coupling reaction i.e. the formation of an amide from a carboxylic acid or ester thereof for example C O OH or an ester thereof may be converted to C O N R R in which Rand Rare as hereinbefore defined and may be linked together e.g. as defined above and which reaction may e.g. for COOH be performed in the presence of a suitable coupling reagent e.g. 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or the like or in the case of an ester e.g. C O OCHor C O OCHCH be performed in the presence of e.g. trimethylaluminium or alternatively the C O OH group may first be activated to the corresponding acyl halide e.g C O Cl by treatment with oxalyl chloride thionyl chloride phosphorous pentachloride phosphorous oxychloride or the like and in all cases the relevant compound is reacted with a compound of formula HN R R in which Rand Rare as hereinbefore defined under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art e.g. optionally in the presence of a suitable solvent suitable base and or in an inert atmosphere 

 vi conversion of a primary amide to a nitrile functional group for example under dehydration reaction conditions e.g. in the presence of POCl or the like 

 vii nucleophilic substitution e.g. aromatic nucleophilic substitution reactions where any nucleophile replaces a leaving group e.g. an amine may replace a S O CHleaving group 

 viii transformation of a methoxy group to a hydroxy group by reaction in the presence of an appropriate reagent such as boron fluoride dimethyl sulfide complex or BBr e.g. in the presence of a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane 

 ix haolgenation alkylation acylation or sulfonylation reactions which may be performed in the presence of base and solvent such as those described hereinbefore 

 x specific deprotection steps such as deprotection of an N Boc protecting group by reaction in the presence of an acid or a hydroxy group protected as a silyl ether e.g. a tert butyl dimethylsilyl protecting group may be deprotected by reaction with a source of fluoride ions e.g. by employing the reagent tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF 

 xi aromatic nitration reactions for instance which may be performed on compounds corresponding to compounds of formula X but in which the NHgroup is replaced with a NOgroup subsequent conversion of the nitro group may take place separately see xii below e.g. by reaction in the presence of nitric acid at low temperature followed by addition of conc. HSO 

 xii reductions of nitro groups to amino groups under standard conditions e.g. iron based reduction which may be followed by an acylation reaction see ix above or a reductive amination see iv above .

The substituents R R R R R Z X and Y or substituents on the main core structure including substituents on ring A B in final compounds of the invention or relevant intermediates may be modified one or more times after or during the processes described above by way of methods that are well known to those skilled in the art. Examples of such methods include substitutions reductions oxidations alkylations acylations hydrolyses esterifications etherifications halogenations or nitrations. Such reactions may result in the formation of a symmetric or asymmetric final compound of the invention or intermediate. The precursor groups can be changed to a different such group or to the groups defined in formula I at any time during the reaction sequence. For example in cases in which there is a COH present the skilled person will appreciate that at any stage during the synthesis e.g. the final step the relevant ester group may be hydrolysed to form a carboxylic acid functional group.

Compounds of the invention bearing a carboxyester functional group may be converted into a variety of derivatives according to methods well known in the art to convert carboxyester groups into carboxamides N substituted carboxamides N N disubstituted carboxamides carboxylic acids and the like. The operative conditions are those widely known in the art and may comprise for instance in the conversion of a carboxyester group into a carboxamide group the reaction with ammonia or ammonium hydroxide in the presence of a suitable solvent such as a lower alcohol dimethylformamide or a mixture thereof preferably the reaction is carried out with ammonium hydroxide in a methanol dimethylformamide mixture at a temperature ranging from about 50 C. to about 100 C. Analogous operative conditions apply in the preparation of N substituted or N N disubstituted carboxamides wherein a suitable primary or secondary amine is used in place of ammonia or ammonium hydroxide. Likewise carboxyester groups may be converted into carboxylic acid derivatives through basic or acidic hydrolysis conditions widely known in the art. Further amino derivatives of compounds of the invention may easily be converted into the corresponding carbamate carboxamido or ureido derivatives.

Compounds of the invention may be isolated from their reaction mixtures using conventional techniques e.g. recrystallisations .

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the processes described above and hereinafter the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by protecting groups.

The protection and deprotection of functional groups may take place before or after a reaction in the above mentioned schemes.

Protecting groups may be removed in accordance with techniques that are well known to those skilled in the art and as described hereinafter. For example protected compounds intermediates described herein may be converted chemically to unprotected compounds using standard deprotection techniques.

The type of chemistry involved will dictate the need and type of protecting groups as well as the sequence for accomplishing the synthesis.

The use of protecting groups is fully described in 3edition T. W. Greene P. G. M. Wutz Wiley Interscience 1999 .

Compounds of the invention are indicated as pharmaceuticals. According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound of the invention for use as a pharmaceutical.

For the avoidance of doubt although compounds of the invention may possess pharmacological activity as such certain pharmaceutically acceptable e.g. protected derivatives of compounds of the invention may exist or be prepared which may not possess such activity but may be administered parenterally or orally and thereafter be metabolised in the body to form compounds of the invention. Such compounds which may possess some pharmacological activity provided that such activity is appreciably lower than that of the active compounds to which they are metabolised may therefore be described as prodrugs of compounds of the invention.

A prodrug of a compound of the invention is as hereinbefore defined including compounds that form a compound of the invention in an experimentally detectable amount within a predetermined time e.g. about 1 hour following oral or parenteral administration. All prodrugs of the compounds of the invention are included within the scope of the invention.

Furthermore certain compounds of the invention may possess no or minimal pharmacological activity as such but may be administered parenterally or orally and thereafter be metabolised in the body to form compounds of the invention that possess pharmacological activity as such. Such compounds which also includes compounds that may possess some pharmacological activity but that activity is appreciably lower than that of the active compounds of the invention to which they are metabolised may also be described as prodrugs .

Thus the compounds of the invention are useful because they possess pharmacological activity and or are metabolised in the body following oral or parenteral administration to form compounds which possess pharmacological activity.

Compounds of the invention may inhibit protein or lipid kinases such as a PI3 kinase especially a class I PI3K or a PIM family kinase e.g. PIM 1 PIM 2 and or PIM 3 for example as may be shown in the tests described below for example the test for PI3K and PIM inhibition described below and or in tests known to the skilled person. The compounds of the invention may also inhibit mTOR. Thus the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of those disorders in an individual in which the inhibition of such protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K particularly class I PI3K mTOR and or a PIM family kinase e.g. PIM 1 PIM 2 or PIM 3 is desired and or required for instance compounds of the invention may inhibit PI3K particularly class I PI3K and optionally may also inhibit either or both of mTOR and PIM . Hence certain compounds of the invention may be dual e.g. PI3K and mTOR PI3K and PIM or mTOR and PIM inhibitors. Further certain compounds of the invention may be triple e.g. PI3K PIM and mTOR inhibitors.

The term inhibit may refer to any measurable reduction and or prevention of catalytic kinase e.g. PI3K particularly class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM activity. The reduction and or prevention of kinase activity may be measured by comparing the kinase activity in a sample containing a compound of the invention and an equivalent sample of kinase e.g. PI3K particularly class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM in the absence of a compound of the invention as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. The measurable change may be objective e.g. measurable by some test or marker for example in an in vitro or in vivo assay or test such as one described hereinafter or otherwise another suitable assay or test known to those skilled in the art or subjective e.g. the subject gives an indication of or feels an effect .

Compounds of the invention may be found to exhibit 50 inhibition of a protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM at a concentration of 100 M or below for example at a concentration of below 50 M or even below 10 M such as below 1 M when tested in an assay or other test for example as described hereinafter or otherwise another suitable assay or test known to the skilled person.

Compounds of the invention are thus expected to be useful in the treatment of a disorder in which a protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM is known to play a role and which are characterised by or associated with an overall elevated activity of that kinase due to for example increased amount of the kinase or increased catalytic activity of the kinase . Hence compounds of the invention are expected to be useful in the treatment of a disease disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behaviour associated with the protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM . Such conditions disorders include cancer immune disorders cardiovascular diseases viral infections inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders.

Compounds of the invention alone or in combination with another active may be shown to be active e.g. in the biochemical assays described herein may be shown to have predictive activity based on e.g. the phosphorylation assay described herein and or may reduce the rate of cell proliferation e.g. as may be shown in the cell proliferation assays described herein for instance using cancer cell lines e.g. known commercially available ones such as those described herein or others that are known and publically available .

The disorders conditions that the compounds of the invention may be useful in treating hence includes cancer such as lymphomas solid tumours or a cancer as described hereinafter obstructive airways diseases allergic diseases inflammatory diseases such as asthma allergy and Crohn s disease immunosuppression such as transplantation rejection and autoimmune diseases disorders commonly connected with organ transplantation AIDS related diseases and other associated diseases. Other associated diseases that may be mentioned particularly due to the key role of kinases in the regulation of cellular proliferation include other cell proliferative disorders and or non malignant diseases such as benign prostate hyperplasia familial adenomatosis polyposis neuro fibromatosis psoriasis bone disorders atherosclerosis vascular smooth cell proliferation associated with atherosclerosis pulmonary fibrosis arthritis glomerulonephritis and post surgical stenosis and restenosis. Other disease states that may be mentioned include cardiovascular disease stroke diabetes hepatomegaly Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis hormone related diseases immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation chronic myelogenous leukaemia liver disease pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation CNS disorders and pulmonary artery hypertension PAH .

As stated above the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of cancer. More specifically the compounds of the invention may therefore be useful in the treatment of a variety of cancer including but not limited to carcinoma such as cancer of the bladder breast colon kidney liver lung including non small cell cancer and small cell lung cancer esophagus gall bladder ovary pancreas stomach cervix thyroid prostate skin squamous cell carcinoma testis genitourinary tract larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma keratoacanthoma epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone adenoma adenocarcinoma follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papilliary carcinoma seminona melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukaemia hematopoietic tumors of lymphoid lineage including leukemia acute lymphocitic leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia B cell lymphoma T cell lymphoma Hodgkin s lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma hairy cell lymphoma and Burkett s lymphoma hematopoietic tumors of myeloid lineage including acute and chronic myelogenous leukemias myelodysplastic syndrome and promyelocytic leukemia tumors of mesenchymal origin including fibrosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma tumors of the central and peripheral nervous system including astrocytoma neuroblastoma glioma and schwannomas and other tumors including melanoma seminoma teratocarcinoma osteosarcoma xeroderma pigmentosum keratoxanthoma thyroid follicular cancer and Kaposi s sarcoma.

Further the protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM may also be implicated in the multiplication of viruses and parasites. They may also play a major role in the pathogenesis and development of neurodegenerative disorders. Hence compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of viral conditions parasitic conditions as well as neurodegenerative disorders.

Compounds of the invention are indicated both in the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of the above mentioned conditions.

According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of treatment of a disease e.g. cancer or another disease as mentioned herein which is associated with the inhibition of protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM is desired and or required for example a method of treatment of a disease disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behaviour associated with protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM which method comprises administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined to a patient suffering from or susceptible to such a condition.

 Patients include mammalian including human patients. Hence the method of treatment discussed above may include the treatment of a human or animal body.

The term effective amount refers to an amount of a compound which confers a therapeutic effect on the treated patient. The effect may be objective e.g. measurable by some test or marker or subjective e.g. the subject gives an indication of or feels an effect .

Compounds of the invention may be administered orally intravenously subcutaneously buccally rectally dermally nasally tracheally bronchially sublingually by any other parenteral route or via inhalation in a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form.

Compounds of the invention may be administered alone but are preferably administered by way of known pharmaceutical formulations including tablets capsules or elixirs for oral administration suppositories for rectal administration sterile solutions or suspensions for parenteral or intramuscular administration and the like. The type of pharmaceutical formulation may be selected with due regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Such pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be chemically inert to the active compounds and may have no detrimental side effects or toxicity under the conditions of use.

Such formulations may be prepared in accordance with standard and or accepted pharmaceutical practice. Otherwise the preparation of suitable formulations may be achieved non inventively by the skilled person using routine techniques and or in accordance with standard and or accepted pharmaceutical practice.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is thus provided a pharmaceutical formulation including a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent and or carrier.

Depending on e.g. potency and physical characteristics of the compound of the invention i.e. active ingredient pharmaceutical formulations that may be mentioned include those in which the active ingredient is present in at least 1 or at least 10 at least 30 or at least 50 by weight. That is the ratio of active ingredient to the other components i.e. the addition of adjuvant diluent and carrier of the pharmaceutical composition is at least 1 99 or at least 10 90 at least 30 70 or at least 50 50 by weight.

The amount of compound of the invention in the formulation will depend on the severity of the condition and on the patient to be treated as well as the compound s which is are employed but may be determined non inventively by the skilled person.

The invention further provides a process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical formulation as hereinbefore defined which process comprises bringing into association a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined or a pharmaceutically acceptable ester amide solvate or salt thereof with a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier.

Compounds of the invention may also be combined with other therapeutic agents that are inhibitors of protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR Flt3 a PIM family kinase e.g. PIM 1 PIM 2 or PIM 3 EGFR and or MEK and or useful in the treatment of a cancer and or a proliferative disease. Compounds of the invention may also be combined with other therapies e.g. radiation .

For instance compounds of the invention may be combined with one or more treatments independently selected from surgery one or more anti cancer anti neoplastic anti tumoral agent one or more hormone therapies one or more antibodies one or more immunotherapies radioactive iodine therapy and radiation.

More specifically compounds of the invention may be combined with an agent that modulates the Ras Raf Mek pathway e.g. an inhibitor of MEK the Jak Stat pathway e.g. an inhibitor of Jak the PI3K Akt pathway e.g. an inhibitor of Akt the DNA damage response mechanism e.g. an inhibitor of ATM or ATR or the stress signaling pathway an inhibitor of p38 or NF KB .

wherein each of components A and B is formulated in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier.

Such combination products provide for the administration of a compound of the invention in conjunction with the other therapeutic agent and may thus be presented either as separate formulations wherein at least one of those formulations comprises a compound of the invention and at least one comprises the other therapeutic agent or may be presented i.e. formulated as a combined preparation i.e. presented as a single formulation including a compound of the invention and the other therapeutic agent .

 1 a pharmaceutical formulation including a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined another therapeutic agent that is useful in the treatment of cancer and or a proliferative disease and a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier and

which components a and b are each provided in a form that is suitable for administration in conjunction with the other.

In a particularly preferred aspect of the invention compounds of the invention may be combined with other therapeutic agents e.g. chemotherapeutic agents for use as medicaments e.g. for use in the treatment of a disease or condition as mentioned herein such as one in which the inhibition of growth of cancer cells are required and or desired e.g. for treating hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer e.g. specific cancers that may be mentioned herein e.g. in the examples in mammals especially humans . Such active ingredients in combinations may act in synergy.

In particular compounds of the invention may be combined with known chemotherapeutic agents as may be demonstrated by the examples for instance where a compound of the examples is employed in combination and inhibits cellular proliferation in vitro in particular such combinations may be useful in treating lung and or ovarian cancer for instance 

The MEK inhibitor PD 0325901 CAS RN 391210 10 9 Pfizer is a second generation non ATP competitive allosteric MEK inhibitor for the potential oral tablet treatment of cancer U.S. Pat. No. 6 960 614 U.S. Pat. No. 6 972 298 US 2004 1147478 US 2005 085550 . Phase II clinical trials have been conducted for the potential treatment of breast tumors colon tumors and melanoma. PD 0325901 is named R N 2 3 dihydroxypropoxy 3 4 difluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino benz amide and has the structure 

Docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis is used to treat breast ovarian and NSCLC cancers U.S. Pat. No. 4 814 470 U.S. Pat. No. 5 438 072 U.S. Pat. No. 5 698 582 U.S. Pat. No. 5 714 512 U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 561 Mangatal et al 1989 Tetrahedron 45 4177 Ringel et al 1991 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 83 288 Bissery et al 1991 Cancer Res. 51 4845 Herbst et al 2003 Cancer Treat. Rev. 29 407 415 Davies et al 2003 Expert. Opin. Pharmacother. 4 553 565 . Docetaxel is named as 2R 3S N carboxy 3 phenylisoserine N tert butyl ester 13 ester with 5 20 epoxy 1 2 4 7 10 13 hexahydroxytax 11 en 9 one 4 acetate 2 benzoate trihydrate U.S. Pat. No. 4 814 470 EP 253738 CAS Reg. No. 114977 28 5 or named as 1 7 10 trihydroxy 9 oxo 5 20 epoxytax 11 ene 2 4 13 triyl 4 acetate 2 benzoate 13 2R 3S 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropanoate and has the structure 

Lapatinib TYKERB GW572016 Glaxo SmithKline has been approved for use in combination with capecitabine XELODA Roche for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors over express HER2 ErbB2 and who have received prior therapy including an anthracycline a taxane and trastuzumab. Lapatinib is an ATP competitive epidermal growth factor EGFR and HER2 neu ErbB 2 dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 256 U.S. Pat. No. 6 713 485 U.S. Pat. No. 7 109 333 U.S. Pat. No. 6 933 299 U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 147 U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 466 U.S. Pat. No. 7 141 576 which inhibits receptor autophosphorylation and activation by binding to the ATPbinding pocket of the EGFRIHER2 protein kinase domain. Lapatinib is named as N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorobenzyloxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonyl ethylamino methyl furan 2 yl quinazolin 4 amine or alternatively named as N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorophenyl methoxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonylethylamino methyl 2 furyl quinazolin 4 amine and has the structure 

The invention further provides a process for the preparation of a combination product as hereinbefore defined which process comprises bringing into association a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined or a pharmaceutically acceptable ester amide solvate or salt thereof with the other therapeutic agent that is useful in the treatment of cancer and or a proliferative disease and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier.

For instance compounds of the invention may be combined with a chemotherapeutic agent. A chemotherapeutic agent is a biological large molecule or chemical small molecule compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors proteins antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and non targeted conventional chemotherapy.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include those mentioned in e.g. WO 2010 105008 for instance dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents also include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX doxorubicin ADRIAMYCINO Akti HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib TYKERB Glaxo SmithKline .

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 MEK inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 A R R Y 8 8 6 MEK inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis ABT 869 multi targeted inhibitor of VEGF and PDGF family receptor tyrosine kinases Abbott Laboratories and Genentech ABT 263 Bc1 2 Bcl xL inhibitor Abbott Laboratories and Genentech PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid lonafamib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson capecitabine XELODA Roche ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg I1 vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thioTepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma II calicheamicin omega II dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone antiadrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfomithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid tiaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thioTepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i antihormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors VVO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG rhuMab 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanised monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab rolizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

By bringing into association we mean that the two components are rendered suitable for administration in conjunction with each other.

Thus in relation to the process for the preparation of a kit of parts as hereinbefore defined by bringing the two components into association with each other we include that the two components of the kit of parts may be 

 i provided as separate formulations i.e. independently of one another which are subsequently brought together for use in conjunction with each other in combination therapy or

 ii packaged and presented together as separate components of a combination pack for use in conjunction with each other in combination therapy.

Depending on the disorder and the patient to be treated as well as the route of administration compounds of the invention may be administered at varying therapeutically effective doses to a patient in need thereof. However the dose administered to a mammal particularly a human in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to effect a therapeutic response in the mammal over a reasonable timeframe. One skilled in the art will recognize that the selection of the exact dose and composition and the most appropriate delivery regimen will also be influenced by inter alia the pharmacological properties of the formulation the nature and severity of the condition being treated and the physical condition and mental acuity of the recipient as well as the potency of the specific compound the age condition body weight sex and response of the patient to be treated and the stage severity of the disease.

Administration may be continuous or intermittent e.g. by bolus injection . The dosage may also be determined by the timing and frequency of administration. In the case of oral or parenteral administration the dosage can vary from about 0.01 mg to about 1000 mg per day of a compound of the invention.

In any event the medical practitioner or other skilled person will be able to determine routinely the actual dosage which will be most suitable for an individual patient. The above mentioned dosages are exemplary of the average case there can of course be individual instances where higher or lower dosage ranges are merited and such are within the scope of this invention.

Compounds of the invention may have the advantage that they are effective inhibitors of protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K mTOR and or PIM . In an embodiment compounds of the invention may have the advantage that they are both PI3K e.g. class I PI3K such as PI3K inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors i.e. they may exhibit dual kinase inhibition. In a further embodiment compounds of the invention may have the advantage that they are PIM inhibitors and are also either PI3K e.g. class I PI3K such as PI3K inhibitors or mTOR inhibitors i.e. they may exhibit dual kinase inhibition. In a yet further embodiment compounds of the invention may have the advantage that they are PI3K e.g. class I PI3K such as PI3K inhibitors mTOR inhibitors and PIM inhibitors i.e. they may exhibit triple kinase inhibition.

Compounds of the invention may also have the advantage that they may be more efficacious than be less toxic than be longer acting than be more potent than produce fewer side effects than be more easily absorbed than and or have a better pharmacokinetic profile e.g. higher oral bioavailability and or lower clearance than and or have other useful pharmacological physical or chemical properties over compounds known in the prior art whether for use in the above stated indications or otherwise.

Pharmacokinetic data for a selection of the compounds of the invention are shown in Table 4. These data demonstrate that the macrocyclic compounds are stable under physiological conditions. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the activity that is observed for the compounds of the invention is associated with the compounds in their macrocyclic forms as opposed to in ring open forms.

As stated hereinbefore compounds of the invention may have the advantage that they may exhibit triple e.g. dual kinase inhibitory activity e.g. may act as inhibitors of combinations of PI3K such PI3K mTOR and PIM e.g. PI3K such PI3K and mTOR . In this respect advantageously compounds of the invention may be considered as multi targeted kinase inhibitors. Compounds of the invention that exhibit single selectivity for a kinase may have the additional benefit that they exhibit less side effects whereas compounds of the invention that exhibit multiple kinase selectivity may have the additional benefit that they exhibit better potency and or efficacy.

To date clinical development of PI3K and dual PI3K mTOR inhibitors have shown moderate activities suggesting that either more potent efficacious inhibitors are required or that inhibition of multiple targets or even pathways might be required for effective treatments see e.g. Bunney Tom D. Katan Matilda Phosphoinositide signalling in cancer beyond PI3K and PTEN Nature Reviews Cancer 2010 10 5 342 352 Cleary James M. and Shapiro Geoffrey I. Development of phosphoinositide 3 kinase pathway inhibitors for advanced cancer Current Oncology Report 2010 12 87 94 and van der Heijden Michiel S and Bernards Ren Inhibition of the PI3K Pathway Hope We Can Believe in Clinical Cancer Research 2010 16 3094 3099 .

Advantageously the compounds of the invention may have the benefit that they inhibit multiple targets or even multiple pathways . For instance in addition to being inhibitors of PI3K mTOR and PIM e.g. PI3K e.g PI3K and mTOR they may also be effective inhibitors of other protein or lipid kinases as may be demonstrated by known tests . In this respect compounds of the invention may be considered to have an improved kinase inhibition cross reactivity profile e.g. by being selective against multiple kinases of therapeutic interest for instance compared to compounds known in the prior art. They may have advantages in the clinic.

Compounds of the invention may combine dual PI3K mTOR activity optionally together with PIM activity with activity on other key kinases indeed combination products covering this spectrum of kinases are currently being evaluated as mentioned above thereby allowing single agent administration or potentially combination products with reduced dosages and providing the associated benefits e.g. reducing the risk of drug drug interactions etc.

Compounds of the invention may be beneficial as they are medicaments with targeted therapy i.e. which target a particular molecular entity by inferring or inhibiting it e.g. in this case by inhibiting one or more protein or lipid kinases as hereinbefore described . Compounds of the invention may therefore also have the benefit that they have a new effect for instance as compared to known compounds in the prior art for instance the new effect may be a particular mode of action or another effect resultant of the targeted therapy. Targeted therapies may be beneficial as they may have the desired effect e.g. reduce cancer by reducing tumor growth or carcinogenisis but may also have the advantage of reducing side effects e.g. by preventing the killing of normal cells as may occur using e.g. chemotherapy .

Furthermore compounds of the invention may selectively target particular protein or lipid kinases e.g. the ones described herein compared to other known protein or lipid kinases. Accordingly compounds of the invention may have the advantage that certain specific cancers may be treated selectively which selective treatment may also have the effect of reducing side effects.

Determination of PI3 and PIM kinase activity of compounds of the invention such as those exemplified is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were prepared characterized and assayed for their PI3K PIM and mTOR enzymatic activities using the methods described herein. The compounds may also be tested in cell based assays.

The kinase activity was measured by using the commercial ADP Hunter Plus assay available from DiscoveR 33 016 which is a homogeneous assay to measure the accumulation of ADP a universal product of kinase activity. The enzyme PI3K p110 p85 was purchased from Cama Biosciences 07CBS 0402A . The assay was done following the manufacturer recommendations with slight modifications Mainly the kinase buffer was replace by 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 100 mM NaCl 1 mM EGTA 0.04 CHAPS 2 mM TCEP and 0.01 mg ml BGG. The PI3K was assayed in a titration experiment to determine the optimal protein concentration for the inhibition assay. To calculate the ICof the ETP compounds serial 1 5 dilutions of the compounds were added to the enzyme at a fixed concentration 2.5 g ml . The enzyme was preincubated with the inhibitor and 30 M PIPsubstrate P9763 Sigma for 5 min and then ATP was added to a final 50 M concentration. Reaction was carried out for 1 hour at 25 C. Reagent A and B were sequentially added to the wells and plates were incubated for 30 min at 37 C. Fluorescence counts were read in a Victor instrument Perkin Elmer with the recommended settings 544 and 580 nm as excitation and emission wavelengths respectively . Values were normalized against the control activity included for each enzyme i.e. 100 PI3 kinase activity without compound . These values were plotted against the inhibitor concentration and were fit to a sigmoid dose response curve by using the Graphad software.

The enzymatic mTOR activity was measured using a LanthaScreen kinase activity assay Invitrogen . The enzyme was purchased from Invitrogen PV4754 as well as the GFP labeled substrate 4EBP1 GFP PV4759 and the Tb anti p4EBP1 pThr46 antibody PV4757 . The assay was performed in 50 mM HEPES buffer pH 7.5 containing 1.5 mM MnCl 10 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA 2.5 mM DTT and 0.01 Tween 20. The concentration of the assay components were the following 0.24 nM mTOR kinase 400 nM 4EBP1 GFP 10 mM ATP and serial dilutions of the compound inhibitor to be evaluated. After 1 h incubation at room temperature 20 mM EDTA was used to stop the reaction and terbium labeled antibody 4 nM added to detect phosphorylated product. The antibody associates with the phosphorylated product resulting in an increased TR FRET value. The TR FRET value a dimensionless number was calculated as the ratio of the acceptor signal GFP emission at 520 nm to the donor signal terbium emission at 495 nm . Values were plotted against the inhibitor concentration and fitted to a sigmoid dose response curve using GraphPad software.

The biochemical assay to measure PIM 1 activity relies on the ADP Hunter assay kit DiscoveRx Corp. Cat. 90 0077 that determines the amount of ADP as direct product of the kinase enzyme activity.

The enzyme has been expressed and purified in house as a recombinant human protein with a C terminal histidine tag. The protein is active and stable.

Assay conditions were as indicated by the kit manufacturers with the following adaptations for the kinase activity step 

Assays were performed in either 96 or 384 well plates. The final outcome of the coupled reactions provided by the kit is the release of the fluorescent product Resorufin and has been measured with a multilabel HTS counter VICTOR V PerkinElmer using an excitation filter at 544 nm and an emission filter at 580 nm.

Experiments were done using BALB c female mice 10 weeks old. Compounds were dissolved in selected vehicles at a concentration calculated in order to administer the dose selected in 0.1 mL. Animals were administered by i.v and oral route by gavage and sacrificed at different time points n 3 at each time point . Time points were 0.08 0.25 0.5 1 4 and 8 h for the i.v branch and 0.08 0.16 0.25 0.5 1 4 8 and 24 h for oral branch. Blood was collected and processed for plasma which was analyzed and quantified by means of tandem mass spectrometry coupled with liquid chromatography. Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated by fitting the experimental data to a compartmental model using Winnonlin software for pharmacokinetic analysis.

The cell lines are obtained from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . U20S human osteosarcoma is cultured in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM . PC3 human prostate carcinoma MCF human breast cardinoma HCT116 human colon carcinoma 768 0 human neuroblastoma U251 human glyoblastoma are grown in RPMI. All media are supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS Sigma and antibiotics antimycotics. Cells are maintained in a humidified incubator at 37 C. with 5 COand passaged when confluent using trypsin EDTA.

Cell viability in the presence of test compounds is measured by the CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of Coleoptera luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiterGlo Assay was conducted in 96 making it amenable to automated highthroughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 .

The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 96 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

Activity is measured as endogenous levels of phospho Akt1 Ser473 protein. Osteosarcoma U20S cells are plated in 96 Poly D Lysine coating tissue culture plates 18.000 cells well . After the treatment with serial dilutions of the compound during 3 h the cells are fixed directly in the wells with 4 paraformaldehyde.

After fixing individual wells go through the same series of steps used for a conventional immunoblot including blocking with 5 BSA incubation with 1 1000 of primary antibody AKT Ser 74 in PBS containing 5 BSA at 4 C. overnight Cell Signalling washing and incubation with second antibody HRP anti mouse IgG for 1 h at RT Amersham . After the addition of SuperSignal ELISA Femto maximum sensitivity chemiluminescent substrate Pierce the results are read using a luminescence plate reader Victor .

The efficacy of compounds of the invention in inhibiting BAD phosphorylation was measured by an In Cell ELISA. EC50 values were established for the tested compounds.

Cell Plates 96 Flat bottom biocoated with Poly D Lysin plates with lid from Becton Dickinson Cat 354651 

Antibodies phosphor Bad S112 antibody from Cell Signaling cat. 9291S anti rabbit conjugated with peroxidise from Amersham cat. 3619 

Cells were seeded in 15000 cells per 200 l per well into 96 well plates and incubated for 16 h at 37 C. 5 CO. On day two nine serial 1 2 compound dilutions were made in DMSO in a 96 well plate. The compounds were added to duplicate wells in 96 well cell plates using a FX BECKMAN robot Beckman Coulter and incubated at 37 C. with COatmosphere. After 4 hours relative levels of Bad S112 phosphorylation were measured in Cell ELISA using SuperSignal ELISA Femto substrate Pierce and read on VICTOR Perkin Elmer . EC50 values were calculated using ActivityBase from IDBS.

Hereinafter the term DCM means dichloromethane MeOH means methanol THF means tetrahydrofuran DMF means dimethylformamide DME means 1 2 dimethoxyethane EtOAc means ethyl acetate BOP means Benzotriazol 1 yloxy tris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate HOAt means 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole PyBOP means benzotriazol 1 yloxy tripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate DMAP means 4 dimethylaminopyridine HATU means O 7 azabenzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate Pd PPh means tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium PdCl dppf .DCM means 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II dichloride dichloromethane DIPEA means diisopropylethylamine TFA means trifluoroacetic acid min means minutes h means hours RT means room temperature eq means equivalents nBuOH means n butanol mw means microwave.

NMR spectra were recorded in a Bruker Avance 11300 spectrometer and Bruker Avance II 700 spectrometer fitted with 5 mm QXI 700 S4 inverse phase Z gradient unit and variable temperature controller.

The HPLC measurements were performed using a HP 1100 from Agilent Technologies comprising a pump binary with degasser an autosampler a column oven a diode array detector DAD and a column as specified in the respective methods below. Flow from the column was split to a MS spectrometer. The MS detector was configured with an electrospray ionization source or API APCI. Nitrogen was used as the nebulizer gas. Data acquisition was performed with ChemStation LC MSD quad software.

Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 5 to 100 of B within 8 min at 50 C. DAD.

Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 5 to 40 of B within 8 min at 50 C. DAD.

Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 0 to 30 of B within 8 min at 50 C. DAD.

Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 10 to 95 of B within 4 min at 50 C. DAD.

Reversed phase HPLC was carried out on a Gemini C18 column 50 2 mm 3 um . Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 0 to 30 of B within 4 min at 50 C. DAD.

The compound names given herein may be generated in accordance with IUPAC using the AutoNom naming program in MDL ISIS Draw.

The synthesis of the some intermediates may have already been described in international patent applications WO2009 040552 WO2008 150827 and WO 2010 112874.

To a solution of 5 amino 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl boronic acid pinacol ester 1.0 g 3.99 mmol in pyridine 13.3 mL at 0 C. was added 3 chlorosulfonyl benzoic acid 1.11 g 4.79 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 3 h. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by column chromatography Biotage cHex EtOAc 100 0 to 0 100 to give Intermediate 1 01 1.15 g 82 .

To a mixture of 5 bromo 2 chloro 3 nitropyridine 5 g 21.06 mmol in 2 propanol 60 mL was added DBU 15.7 mL 105.3 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 17 h. After cooling to RT 1N HCl was added and the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. Aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 4 . Combined organic layers were washed with 1N HCl dried filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified on silica gel Biotage cHex EtOAc 100 0 to 90 10 to give Intermediate 1 02 974 mg 18 .

To a solution of Intermediate 1 02 978 mg 3.75 mmol in a 4 1 mixture of acetic acid water 10 mL was added Iron 628 mg 11.24 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 4 h. EtOAc was added and the mixture was filtered through a plug of celite. The filtrate was basified by addition of 5N NaOH. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic layers were dried filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified on silica gel Biotage cHex EtOAc 100 0 80 20 to obtain Intermediate 1 03 338 mg 39 .

To a mixture of Intermediate 1 03 338 mg 1.46 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 446 mg 1.75 mmol and KOAc 431 mg 4.39 mmol in 1 4 dioxane DMF 2 mU0.2 mL was added PdCl dppf DCM 121 mg 0.15 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated under microwave conditions at 150 C. for 10 min. On cooling the mixture was filtered through a column of silica gel isolute Si II 5 g with a pad of celite on its top eluting with EtOAc. The filtrate was evaporated and the residue was purified on silica gel Biotage cHex EtOAc 90 10 to 0 100 to obtain Intermedite 1 04 169 mg 42 .

A mixture of methyl 3 aminothiophene 2 carboxylate 1 g 6.362 mmol and acetonitrile 0.50 mL 9.542 mmol in HCl 4M in 1 4 dioxane 12.70 mL was placed into a sealed tube and left under sonication at RT for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then heated at 100 C. for 16 h. More HCl 4M in 1 4 dioxane 2 mL and CHCN 0.25 mL were added and the mixture was heated at 100 C. for 2 h. NaOH 5 N 12 mL was added and the mixture was refluxed for 30 min. On cooling HO was added and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give Intermediate 1 05 184 mg . The aqueous layer was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was triturated from HO to give Intermediate 1 05 463 mg as a pale yellow solid. Total yield 61 .

To acetic anhydride 18 mL at 0 C. was added dropwise formic acid 12 mL followed by the portionwise addition of methyl 3 amino 4 methylthiophene 2 carboxylate 5 g 29.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 18 h. The mixture was poured into a solution of NaCO 30 g in water 100 mL at 0 C. The resulting white solid was filtered off washed with water and dried to give Intermediate 1 06 4.69 g 81 as a white solid.

A mixture of Intermediate 1 06 4.65 g 23.25 mmol and ammonium formate 10 g 200 mmol in formamide 6 mL was heated at 160 C. for 18 h. On cooling the resulting solid was filtered washed with acetone and dried to give Intermediate 1 07 3.85 g 99 as a white solid.

A mixture of methyl 3 aminothiophene 2 carboxylate 2 g 12.72 mmol and isobutyronitrile 1.71 mL 19.08 mmol in HCl 4M in 1 4 dioxane 25 mL was placed into a sealed tube and left under sonication at RT for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then heated at 100 C. for 16 h. More HCl 4M in 1 4 dioxane 4 mL and isobutyronitrile 0.9 mL were added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 20 h. 5N NaOH 24 mL was added and the mixture was refluxed for 1 h. The solvent was evaporated and HO and 6N HCl were added to the residue. The resulting suspension was filtered off and washed with a lot of HO and EtO to give Intermediate 1 08 2.40 g 97 .

A solution of 5 cyano 4 methylthiophene 2 boronic acid 0.2 g 1.20 mmol in 7N NHin MeOH was hydrogenated in an H cube apparatus Raney Nickel flow 1 mL min 50 bar 50 C. recirculating mode for 2 h 45 min. Solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give Intermediate 1 09 164 mg 80 .

To a sealed tube charged with 6 Bromo 4 chloro quinoline 1 00 2.3 g 9.48 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 75 ml 2 Methoxy 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl amine 2.85 g 11.38 mmol KCO aq. sol. 1M 40 ml and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium O 1.096 g 0.948 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1 h. The mixture was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using cyclohexane EtOAc gradient to give intermediate I 01 2.2 g Y 81 .

To a solution of 2 Bromo 5 iodo imidazo 2 1 b 1 3 4 thiadiazole 0.55 g 1.67 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 9 mL 2 Methoxy 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 3 yl amine 0.5 g 2 mmol NaCO aq. sol. 2M 5 mL and PdCl PPh 117 mg 0.167 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was heated sand bath in a sealed tube at 110 C. for 2.5 h. On cooling water was added and the suspension was filtered and rinsed with HO and EtO. The solid was purified through a path of silica EtOAc DCM 10 90 to 50 50 to give the intermediate II 01 2.16 g Y 23 as a beige solid.

To a solution of 3 bromo 5 chloropyrazolo 1 5 a pyrimidine III 01 0.5 g 2.151 mmol in DME 10 mL was added 5 amino 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl boronic acic pinacol ester 538 mg 2.151 mmol KCO2M 3.3 mL 6.452 mmol and PdCl PPh 45 mg 0.065 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated in a sealed tube at 80 C. for 30 min. 3 N Boc aminomethyl pyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 719 mg 2.151 mmol and PdCl PPh 45 mg 0.065 mmol were added and the mixture was heated at 80 C. for 22 h. On cooling the mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using MeOH DCM 4 96 to 10 90 gradient to give intermediate III 02 545 mg 56 as a yellow solid.

To a solution of 3 bromo 6 chloroimidazo 1 2 b pyridazine IV 01 450 mg 1.936 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 8 mL was added 3 N Boc aminomethyl pyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 679 mg 2.033 mmol aq. NaCO2M 3 mL 6 mmol and PdCl PPh 136 mg 0.194 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. in a sealed tube for 8 h. On cooling the mixture was diluted with DCM and water. Layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with DCM. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography Biotage using MeOH DCM 0 100 to 20 80 as eluent to afford intermediate IV 02 525 mg 75 .

To a solution of 4 chloro 6 iodothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine VIII 01 30 mg 0.101 mmol in 1 2 dioxane 0.81 mL was added 3 aminopyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 27 mg 0.121 mmol KCO1M 0.42 mL and Pd PPh 12 mg 0.010 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1 h. Then 3 N Boc aminomethyl pyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 50 mg 0.142 mmol KCO1M 0.42 mL and Pd PPh 12 mg 0.010 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1 h. On cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by column chromatography Biotage cHex EtOAc 100 0 to 0 100 and EtOAc MeOH 100 0 to 80 20 to give intermediate VIII 18 17 mg 39 .

To a solution of the corresponding 2 methoxy pyridin 3 ylamine intermediate 1 eq. in pyridine 10 mL mmol at 0 C. was added the required sulfonyl chloride 1.2 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h MeOH was added and the mixture was evaporated. The residue was purified either by flash chromatography in a Biotage using MeOH EtOAc gradient or by precipitation from MeOH to give the desired sulfonilated product.

A mixture of Intermediate IX 09 0.7 g 1.507 mmol 3 chlorosulfonyl benzoic acid 0.83 g 3.773 mmol pyridine 7 mL and DCM 35 mL was stirred at 40 C. overnight. Methanol 20 mL was added to the reaction mixture. The mixture was concentrated and diluted into 20 mL of 1N NaOH at 0 C. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous phase was adjusted to pH 3 by 1N HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography to give Intermediate IX 10 0.4 g yield 41 .

In a sealed tube charged with the halogenated starting material 1 eq. in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL mmol the corresponding boronic acid 1.2 eq. KCO aq. sol. 1M 3 eq. and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium O 0.1 eq. were added. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1 2 h. The mixture was concentrated and the crude was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using Cyclohexane EtOAc followed by EtOAc MeOH gradient to give the desired product.

To a solution of intermediate II 01 0.54 g 1.44 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 7.5 mL 3 n boc aminomethyl pyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 0.58 g 1.73 mmol NaCO aq. sol. 2M 2.25 mL and PdCl PPh 102 mg 0.144 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was heated sand bath in a sealed tube at 110 C. for 2 h. On cooling water was added and the suspension was filtered off and rinsed with HO and EtO to give intermediate 3 05 0.412 g Y 63 . The aqueous phase was neutralised with HCl 25 and extracted with DCM. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage MeOH DCM 2 98 to 10 90 to give intermediate II 02 0.17 g Y 26 global yield 89 .

A mixture of intermediate VII 06 3.76 g 8.95 mmol 2 methoxy 6 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 3 ylamine 2.35 g 9.40 mmol NaCO 1.9 g 17.9 mmol Pd dppf Cl 0.36 g 0.45 mmol in HO 8 mL and DME 60 mL was stirred at 120 C. under Novernight. The mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography to give the intermediate VII 07 3.48 g 84 .

A mixture of intermediate VII 01 0.50 g 2.06 mmol 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrazol 1 yl ethyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 0.73 g 2.16 mmol Pd dppf Cl 84 mg 0.10 mmol and NaCO 0.65 g 6.17 mmol in DME 8 mL and HO 2.5 mL was heated under microwave irradiation at 140 C. for 40 min. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated. The residue was purified by chromatography column on silica gel to give intermediate VII 10 125 mg 15 .

To a mixture of Intermediate VIII 02 2 g 6.8 mmol 2 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrazol 1 yl ethyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 2.2 g 6.8 mmol and KCO 2.8 g 20.4 mmol in dioxane 20 mL and HO 10 mL was added Pd dppf Cl 0.5 g 0.7 mmol under N. The mixture was heated to 85 C. and stirred 2 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT poured into water and extracted with CHCl 50 mL 4 . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography to give Intermediate VIII 09 1.7 g 53 as a yellow solid.

A mixture of Intermediate XVII 02 233 mg 0.49 mmol 5 Boc aminomethyl thiophene 2 boronic acid 159 mg 0.62 mmol KPO 178 mg 0.80 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 28 mg 0.11 mmol and Pd dba 47 mg in degassed dioxane 10 mL and water 0.6 mL was heated for 3 h at 120 C. under microwave irradiation. On cooling the mixture was evaporated and the residue was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 90 10 to 0 100 to give the ester intermediate as a brown solid 205 mg . By eluting the column with EtOAc MeOH 80 20 the acid Intermediate XVII 03 was obtained 50 mg .

The ester 205 mg was dissolved in EtOH 10 mL the mixture was cooled to 0 C. 4N KOH 10 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 4 h at RT. The EtOH was carefully removed water 5 mL was added and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. Acetic acid was added until the solution had a pH of 4 and the resulting solid was filtered washed with water and dried to give the acid as a grey solid 183 mg . Both collected acids 50 mg 183 mg were combined and purified by column chromatography EtOAc MeOH 100 0 to 80 20 to give Intermediate XVII 03 as a brown solid 193 mg 61 .

In a sealed tube charged with intermediate I 02 250 mg 0.532 mmol in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 4.5 ml 4 tert butoxycarbonylaminomethyl piperidine 238 mg 1.064 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 150 C. for 1 h. The mixture was concentrated. The crude was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using Cyclohexane AcOEt gradient followed by AcOEt MeOH gradient to give intermediate I 03 154 mg Y 45 .

In a sealed tube charged with intermediate I 02 260 mg 0.553 mmol in 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 3 ml N boc 1 4 diaminobutane 214 mg 1.107 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 150 C. for 1.5 h. The mixture was concentrated. The crude was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using Cyclohexane AcOEt gradient followed by AcOEt MeOH gradient to give intermediate I 04 137 mg Y 40 .

To a solution of intermediate VII 01 2.08 g 8.56 mmol in ClCHCHCl 40 mL was added 4 tert butoxycarbonylaminomethyl piperidine 1.92 g 8.99 mmol and EtN 1.73 g 17.12 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated to give the intermediate VII 06 3.45 g crude which was used in the next step with no further treatment.

To a solution of intermediate VIII 02 0.6 g 2.05 mmol and EtN 0.62 g 0.15 mmol in n Butanol 30 mL was added 4 tert butoxycarbonylaminomethyl piperidine 0.66 g 3.08 mmol . The mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 3 h. On cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography to give Intermediate VIII 12 0.8 g 83 as a yellow solid.

To a solution of intermediate I 06 620 mg 0.966 mmol in dioxane 8 ml at 0 C. was added dropwise a solution of HCl 4 N in water 8 ml . The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h. Additional amount of HCl 4 N 8 ml was added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. The reaction was evaporated till dryness. The residue mixture of intermediates I 07 and I 08 was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of intermediate II 03 80 mg 0.125 mmol in dioxane 1.25 mL was added HCl 4 M in dioxane 1.25 mL . Two more additions of HCl 1 mL were made and the mixture was finally stirred at RT over the weekend. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and coevaporated with toluene. The residue mixture of intermediates II 04 and II 05 was used in the next step without further purification.

To a suspension of Intermediate VIII 04 200 mg 0.308 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 3 mL was added HCl 4N in dioxane 3.85 mL 15.415 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated in a pressure tube at 100 C. for 4 h. On cooling the mixture was filtered and washed with EtO to give Intermediate VIII 24 200 mg quant. contaminated with aprox. 5 of the methoxy derivative.

To a suspension of the corresponding Boc amino 1 eq. in DCM 5 mL mmol was added TFA 5 mL mmol . The solution was stirred at RT for 1 18 h. The mixture was concentrated and coevaporated with toluene three times to give the desired product as trifluoroacetic salt. It was used in the next experiment without further purification. Quantitative yield was assumed.

The corresponding acid 1 eq. was suspended in DCE 5 mL mmol the mixture cooled to 0 C. and TFA 5 mL mmol was added. The mixture was stirred for 4 h at room temperature and the solvents were removed in vacuo to give the desired compound as trifluoroacetic salt. It was used in subsequent reactions without further purification. A quantitative yield was assumed.

To a solution of Intermediate II 07 trifluoroacetic salt raw material 290 mg 0.436 mmol in DCM 8 mL and DMF 1 mL was added DIPEA 0.38 mL 2.18 mmol Boc Gly OH 153 mg 0.871 mmol BOP 385 mg 0.871 mmol and DMAP 5 mg 0.044 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h and evaporated. The residue was taken up in EtOAc and washed with HO and HCl 1.2 M. The organic layer was dried filtered and evaporated to give Intermediate II 08 510 mg . It was used in the next experiment with no further treatment. Quantitative yield was assumed.

To a solution of Intermediate II 08 raw material 310 mg 0.437 mmol in MeOH 8 mL was added LiORHO 184 mg 4.37 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 8 h and more LiOH HO 184 mg was added. The mixture was stirred overnight and evaporated to give Intermediate II 09. It was used in the next experiment with no further treatment. Quantitative yield was assumed.

To a mixture of Intermediate VIII 21 157 mg 0.225 mmol in 1 4 dioxane water 3 1 4 mL was added potassium carbonate. The reaction was heated at 100 C. for 5 h. On cooling the mixture was evaporated water was added and the pH was adjusted to 5 with 1N HCl. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was further acidified until pH 3 and extracted with 1 1 CHCl PrOH. All the organic layers were combined dried and filtered to give Intermediate VIII 22 127 mg 83 .

To a solution of Intermediate VIII 64 275 mg 0.41 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 3 mL was added 2M KOH 1 mL 2 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 4.5 h. The mixture was partially evaporated under reduced pressure without heating. Water was added and pH was adjusted to pH 2 with 2M HCl. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with EtOAc dried filtered and evaporated to afford Intermediate VIII 65 248 mg 92 .

To a solution of 5 bromo 3 iodo 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine V 01 1.58 g 4.64 mmol in DCM 47 mL was added benzenesulfonyl chloride 1.32 mL 10.22 mmol tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 55 in water 0.75 mL 1.16 mmol and NaOH 50 aq. 14 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 12 h. The mixture was quenched with brine and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM 2 20 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and evaporated. Ice cold methanol was added to the residue and the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. The suspension was filtered off and the solid was washed with ice cold methanol to afford Intermediate V 02 1.72 g 80 as a pale yellow solid.

A mixture of Intermediate 1 05 647 mg 3.893 mmol and POCl 32 mL was refluxed for 5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled down to RT and poured very carefully into sat. NaCO. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to give Intermediate XII 01 518 mg 72 as a pale brown solid.

A mixture of Intermediate 1 07 4.85 g 24.34 mmol and POCl 20 mL was refluxed for 3 h. On cooling the solvents were removed in vacuo the residue was suspended in water and the suspension was cooled to 0 C. Aqueous saturated NaCOwas added dropwise at 0 C. up to pH 8. The resulting solid was filtered washed with water and dried to give Intermediate XIII 01 1.1 g 20 as a white solid.

To a mixture of Intermediate XII 01 429 mg 2.323 mmol in THF 12 mL was added LDA 1.8 M in THF heptane ethylbenzene 1.55 mL 2.788 mmol at 78 C. After stirring at 78 C. for 1 h a solution of I 737 mg 2.904 mmol in THF 2.6 mL was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 h. EtOAc was added to the mixture at 78 C. followed by the addition of HO. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was triturated from MeCN to give Intermediate XII 02 515 mg 71 as a pale brown solid.

The final examples of compounds of the invention were prepared according to the general methods B 1 to B 4 described hereinafter.

The corresponding aminoacid intermediate 1 eq. was dissolved in DMF 50 mL mmol and DIPEA 5 eq. was added. The mixture was added using a syringe pump 2 mL h to a solution of PyBOP 1.1 eq. and DMAP 1.1 eq. in DMF 150 mL mmol . After the addition the mixture was stirred for 18 h and evaporated till dryness. The residue was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using cyclohexane AcOEt gradient followed by AcOEt MeOH gradient to give the expected compound.

A solution of the indicated aminoacid intermediate 1 eq. in DMF 50 mL mmol and DIPEA 5 eq. was added via syringe pump 2 mL h to a solution of HATU 2 eq. and HOAt 0.5 M in DMF 2 eq. in DMF 150 mL mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred overnight under Ar. The mixture was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using DCM MeOH gradient to give the expected compound.

A solution of the indicated aminoacid intermediate 1 eq. in DMF 50 mL mmol and DIPEA 5 eq. was added via syringe pump 2 mL h to a solution of PyBroP 2 eq. in DMF 150 mL mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred overnight under Ar. The mixture was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by flash chromatography in a Biotage using DCM MeOH gradient to give the expected compound.

To a solution of Final Product 27 30 mg 0.06 mmol in DMF 0.6 mL and DIPEA 10 L 0.06 mmol was added MeI 4 L 0.06 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred from 0 C. to rt. More DIPEA 10 L and MeI 5 L were added and the reaction was stirred at rt for 6 h. Water was added and the mixture was extracted with DCM. The organic layer was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give Final Product 46 4 mg 13 and the dimethylated product 3 mg 9 .

Certain exemplary compounds of the invention described herein were prepared characterised and assayed for their PI3K PIM 1 and mTOR enzymatic activities.

