---

title: Fixed position interactive advertising
abstract: Computer-based systems and methods for an advertisement displayed on a fixed position on a web browser window displaying a visible portion of a web page. The fixed position advertisement remains in its fixed position in view of the user as the user scrolls the web page in various directions. The advertisement may be sized, shaped, or formatted based on the available space on the web page and on the content of the advertisement. The advertisement may include a variety of static and dynamic content, including interaction prompts and other elements, which may enable an engagement-based revenue generation model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607321&OS=09607321&RS=09607321
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09607321
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 209 126 entitled Interactive Advertising filed Sep. 11 2008 which is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 781 830 entitled Systems and Methods for Interaction Prompt Initiated Video Advertising filed on Jul. 23 2007 which takes priority from provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 820 077 filed Jul. 21 2006 wherein the afore referenced applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Computer based systems and methods for an advertisement displayed on a fixed position on a web browser window displaying a visible portion of a web page. The fixed position advertisement remains in its fixed position in view of the user as the user scrolls the web page in various directions. The fixed position advertisement may be sized shaped or formatted based on the available space on the web page. The advertisement may include a variety of static and dynamic content including interaction prompts and other elements which may enable an engagement based revenue generation model.

Traditional Internet or World Wide Web marketing advertising operates on a pay per impression PPI basis. PPI is mostly used in association with banner advertising where an advertiser pays a small amount to a website advertising network or other advertising reseller or aggregator each a publisher each time the advertiser s advertisement is loaded into a user s web browser and displayed to the user the impression by the publisher.

In addition to being paid by impression publishers can also be paid if a user clicks on the banner advertisement a click through event or pay per click and the user is directed to a website associated with the advertisement. Upon direction to the website the advertiser becomes obligated to pay the publisher of that banner advertisement some amount of money for the referral. Many websites are completely funded through the mass collection of small payments from many different advertisers for both PPI and click through events.

In the same manner that advertising has changed over time so too has the nature of the advertisements themselves. Many traditional advertisements have been static in nature comprised of a picture and some text related to the subject matter being advertised. More recent advertisements have included multimedia object technologies such as JAVA SHOCKWAVE FLASH etc. that utilize sound video and or animated content to grab a user s attention. Video advertising whether live motion or animated has frequently been used in association with other video content such as playing a video commercial in association with a video trailer for a movie. Sometimes the video advertisement is displayed before the video content pre roll in the middle of the video content or a series of videos mid roll or after the video content post roll .

Whether the advertisement content is static or dynamic the size of the advertisement is often limited to a set of pre defined sizes by the publisher. For example the standard wide and short full banner advertisement as established by the Interactive Advertising Bureau IAB is 468 60 pixels in size. The IAB has also set guidelines for other advertisement units such rectangular and pop up advertisements 336 280 300 250 250 250 240 400 and 180 150 banner and button advertisements 728 90 468 60 234 60 120 90 120 60 88 31 80 15 120 240 and 125 125 and skyscraper advertisements 120 600 160 600 and 300 600 . Rather than attempt to make all advertisement content fit every single advertisement unit an advertiser will frequently generate advertisement content for use in just a couple of advertisement units based on the sizes available and force the publishers to fit that content into the space they have available on their websites. Publishers need a way to effectively select and arrange the multimedia content within an advertisement including new forms of content to fit many different advertisement units as well as non standard advertisement units while maintaining the quality of the advertisement for the advertisers.

A problem faced by advertisers is that once the advertisement unit is placed on a website there is no guarantee that the users will pay attention to it or will interact with it. This is especially the case on websites that host blogs and sites where the posting of user content and comments make the websites long requiring the user to scroll to view the entire contents of the website. Advertisements are typically placed near the top of pages ensuring that the user sees the advertisement when the page is loaded. However the proliferation and common use of advertisements in the majority of websites has reduced the effect of such exposure. When the user is viewing a long page many times users scroll down the web page ignoring the advertisement and making the advertisement useless since it is not viewed and if it is viewed it is only viewed for a short period of time.

Likewise while PPI advertising can initially be lucrative for a publisher PPI has proven to be less effective over time because many users become overwhelmed with banner advertisements and begin to ignore them. For advertisers this means that while they continue to pay for impressions the value of such impressions is diluted due to the jaded nature of the users. While pay per click advertising addresses this issue for some direct response oriented advertisers many advertisers are just trying to build brand awareness rather than get users to their sites so they are not interested in paying on a pay per click basis. Advertisers therefore need another method of measuring the effectiveness of an advertisement. The challenge is to develop an advertising system that forces greater accountability on those publishing advertisements to users and allows advertisers to more objectively measure the effectiveness of their advertisements on their intended audience.

Although embodiments of the invention may be described in terms of various methods the embodiments also relate to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in any form of computer readable storage medium. Likewise the methods described herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or specialized apparatus for performing the required method steps could be constructed.

A data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disc and its corresponding drive may also be coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions. Architecture can also be coupled to a second I O bus via an I O interface . A plurality of I O devices may be coupled to I O bus including a display device an input device e.g. a keyboard and or a cursor control device . The communication device allows for access to other computers servers or clients via a network. The communication device may comprise a modem a network interface card a wireless network interface or other well known interface device such as those used for coupling to an Ethernet token ring or other type of network.

In general an embodiment relates to when a user accesses a website or other on line location for displaying certain content on the user s computer whether that computer is in the form of a desktop laptop or other type of computing device such as a personal digital assistance PDA a cellular phone a smart phone or some other type of device and the user is presented with that content as well as additional content such as one or more advertisements through some sort of display. In one embodiment an interactive advertisement consists of an initial advertisement first presented to a user viewer as an invitation or teaser that attracts the user to the initial advertisement and encourages the user s engagement. If the user engages in an appropriate way with the invitation the initial advertisement might change in some fashion such as enlarging or taking over the user s display to become what is referred to herein as an expanded message. The invitation or invitation advertisement would typically include one or more engagement properties that encourage the user to initially engage or interact with the advertisement content and so as to trigger the expanded message. Once the user so engages an obligation by the advertiser to pay the publisher may be triggered. Payment obligations can vary based on the nature and extent of user engagement as further described below.

The engagement properties include the user s movement of a cursor over the advertisement content a mouse over the user s entry of one or more keystrokes from a keyboard clicking on or otherwise selecting the advertisement content allowing a countdown or timer to expire as a result of a sustained mouse over the advertisement content or some other form of user interaction with the advertisement. For example when using a PDA or phone with motion detection capabilities it might be possible to engage an advertisement by moving the PDA or phone in a particular way. Similarly a motion or gesture recognition device associated with the user s computer could be trained to recognize certain user gestures to indicate engagement such as a head nod eye blink hand motion etc. Of course many more methods of engagement or interaction are possible so embodiments are not limited to just the manners specified herein.

To present these advertisements and their various features to the user a file such as an extensible mark up language XML document file is served to an advertisement manager in communication with the accessed website location and some form of content player within the user s computer. The advertisement manager would then take over control of the user s advertisement experience through the utilization of information contained within the XML file. Advertisement servers and or content delivery networks that store digital advertising content or media assets including text images video animations hyperlinks widgets dynamic micro sites programs sound slideshows etc. would then serve the content necessary to create the advertisements and their various features as further described below in response to the advertisement manager and content player or other application within the user s computer that is calling for the advertisement .

The CPU executes software code for the basic operation of the platform . The executable code may include an Operating System programs device drivers and other software components. Device drivers may include I O device drivers and network interface drivers. A device driver may interface to a keypad or to a USB port. A network interface driver may execute protocols for the Internet or an intranet Wide Area Network WAN Local Area Network LAN Personal Area Network PAN extranet or other network.

The memory may contain transactional memory and or long term storage memory facilities. The memory may function as file or document storage program storage or working memory. A working memory may include but is not limited to static random access memory dynamic random access memory read only memory cache or flash memory. A working memory may for example process temporally based instructions in part by temporarily storing code relating to an action of a device and purging that code from the memory in close temporal proximity to the completion of the action. A long term memory may include but is not limited to a hard drive portable drive portable disk e.g. a CD ROM DVD etc. tape facility or other storage facility. A hardware memory facility may store a fixed information set e.g. software code including but not limited to a file program application source code object code and the like.

The browser enabled processor platform may also contain hardware for converting analog signals to digital data or for converting digital signals into analog signals. For example it may be necessary to convert an analog audio or video source into digital data for storage or playback. As another example analog signals from a light sensor device could be converted into digital data for the storage of visual information for subsequent storage playback or transfer.

The browser enabled processor platform may also include various I O interfaces such a hardware network interface one or more displays CD DVDs storage device keypads keyboards printers or other standard interfaces. An example of a hardware network interface may be a broadband connection a dial up connection wireless or other connection. An example of a display may be a monitor plasma screen or a liquid crystal display. An example of other standard interfaces may include but is not limited to a USB port parallel port serial port microphone or speaker.

Although the player shown in is configured as a browser plug in it could alternatively be any other form of software component that is adapted to be directly associated with a browser application . The player may be a downloadable software component or delivered to the user of the browser enabled processor platform in any number of other ways e.g. delivered from a CD DVD memory stick portable memory FTP transfer etc. . The networks include the Internet and other possible networks such as Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs or any other system for enabling two or more devices to exchange information. Further the networks may include wireless networks.

The player may be a proprietary player or any other player because the advertising capabilities described herein are independent of the player. If the player is a plug in it may be a FLASH plug in player or some similar type of device. Other players are also envisioned and require other plug in technology e.g. WINDOWS MEDIA REAL PLAYER or QUICKTIME players .

In an embodiment the player is adapted to become directly associated or integrated with the browser application . Before playing an advertisement the user s browser enabled processor platform may be checked to see if it already has the proper player installed and if it does not the user may be provided with an option to install one or it may be installed automatically or in some other fashion. The player will be installed in such a way that its functionalities e.g. opening files from a variety of sources playing video music etc. are presented to a user through the network user interface which operates in conjunction with the web browser . The player may not be visible to user. This configuration allows a user to interact with websites through the web browser and then interact with any of the player s functionalities through the same user interface. The player may also access the memory such as a hard drive or other storage facility for the storage and retrieval of files.

A user interested in interacting with content presented to the user through a website depending on the particular arrangement between the different systems on the networks may interact with that content directly on the website or through the content delivery network or on the processor platform if it has been downloaded to the processor platform . The content can also be presented to the user by streaming the content from the websites content delivery network or another processor platform not shown connected to the networks .

Advertising servers are web or other Internet based applications responsible for choosing an appropriate advertisement to be inserted into a given calling application as further described below . The advertising servers perform a number of different functions. For example according to one embodiment advertising servers provide advertising content to content delivery network so that advertisements may be provided along with other content. Advertising servers may be part of content delivery network or independent servers. The advertising servers also provide XML files to the advertisement manager within the player that controls the display and interaction by the user with the advertising content. According to one embodiment advertising servers collect advertising content from various advertisers. Advertising servers may also receive information from the content delivery network pertaining to the users who view content through the content delivery network .

As noted above the advertisement manager controls the user s interaction with the advertising content played by the player . The advertisement manager passes information about the user and the user s interaction to the content delivery network which collects this information. The information includes the user s Internet Protocol IP address geographic location nature or theme of the website on which an advertisement is being displayed the nature of the specific content viewed by the user the user s web viewing history or patterns as well as other psychographic data about the user which may be received from a number of different sources . The content delivery network may also collect information about the user s age location gender income education ethnicity product preferences and a variety of other demographic characteristics that are useful in matching an advertisement to a user. The content delivery network may also collect information about the user s viewing experience such as the location of player the genre of the content viewed the type of content viewed e.g. video slideshow widget and the location of the player within the browser.

This information can be aggregated with similar information about other users and transferred to various advertisers who will pay for this information. According to one embodiment the information is passed from the content delivery network to the advertising server once a user begins to watch content on a player. If a website has provided the player it may also provide code that causes the user s information to be passed to the content delivery network and advertising server .

A user choosing to interact with content on the content delivery network may use his her own browser enabled processor platform equipped with a network browsing facility such as the network interface and player to connect to a content file by interacting with a link or other such connection facility associated with a website or page thereof as is described in much further detail below.

A client may embed the player directly into any type of interactive electronic document using Hyper Text Markup Language HTML . When the player requests content from the content delivery network or the advertising servers that content is then be made available to the player for display and interaction. The application servers monitor traffic to and from the content delivery network take action when necessary such as to delete content and generate reporting data for advertisers.

The browser may be a software application for navigating one or more networks such as the Internet intranet extranet a private network and or content in file systems. The browser also enables a user to display and interact with text images videos audio and other content accessible through the networks . Such content may contain hyperlinks to navigate to other web pages at the same or different websites . Web browser may allow a user to navigate and access information provided on many web pages at many websites by traversing these links. Web browser may also provide other features such as storing the address for a favorite website utilizing the browser s Bookmark Manager. Examples of bookmarked websites may be hyperlinks to other personal sites e commerce sites government sites or educational sites. Another feature of web browser may be caching where recently visited websites are transferred through the processor interface and stored in processor memory to decrease retrieval time for subsequent calls for the website . Examples of web browser include the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX OPERA and APPLE SAFARI browsers. Although browser may typically be used to access the World Wide Web it may also be used to access information provided by web servers in private networks or content in file systems.

Web browser may communicate with web servers through the network interface primarily using Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP to fetch web pages. HTTP may allow a web browser to upload information across the network interface to web servers as well as download web pages from them. Web pages are located by means of a Uniform Resource Locator URL which may be treated as an address beginning with http for HTTP access. Many browsers may support a variety of other URL types and their corresponding protocols. Examples of other URL types may be ftp for File Transfer Protocol FTP rtsp for Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP and https for HTTPS an SSL encrypted version of HTTP . The file format for a web page may be HTML. Browser may also support formats in addition to HTML. Examples of other support formats may be JPEG PNG and GIF image formats and can be extended to support more through the use of browser plug ins. An example of a browser plug in may be MACROMEDIA s Flash or APPLE S QUICKTIME applications. The combination of HTTP and URL protocol specification may allow web pages to have embedded images animations video sound and streaming media into the webpage or make them accessible through the web page.

The player also includes an advertising region that may or may not contain an advertisement. For example the advertisement manager may cause an image of a cola bottle to be displayed within a display window corresponding to a website . The cola bottle could be limited to being displayed within the advertising region but need not be so constrained. The cola bottle could come out of the advertising message such as an invitation or teaser advertisement and move around the screen in some fashion or when the website was first displayed the cola bottle could be made to travel around different parts of the window or the display area of the user s computer with the intent of capturing the user s attention and drawing them to interact with advertising messages within the advertising region or elsewhere. These advertising messages may be self activating or trigged by a user s interaction with some form of an interaction prompt within a window or the advertising region .

According to one embodiment the invitation or teaser advertisement could be associated with a single advertiser or multiple advertisers. For example the invitation could represent an advertisement for a single good or service from a single advertiser or multiple goods or services from that advertiser. Likewise multiple different advertisers could be represented by a single invitation space. Each good or service could be presented in a different way. For example a rectangular shaped invitation space could be broken up into four quadrants with a different good or service presented in each quadrant of the space. Alternatively the different advertisements could operate like a slide show with one advertisement being shown in the invitation space for a number of seconds before being replaced by another advertisement.

This might make it possible for a publisher to fully exploit an advertising opportunity in a new way. For example if a user within a particular demographic such as 18 34 year old males was not interested in the one good or service presented in an invitation with a single advertisement the opportunity to engage that user could be lost. However if the same user were presented with a number of different advertisements at the same time or in sequence the user might be interested in one of the advertised goods services and choose to engage with that advertisement. Once the user has engaged with that advertisement if the user has a good experience the user might be inclined to engage with some of the other advertisements provided in the same invitation.

According to one embodiment upon the user s interaction with the interaction prompt a further advertising message is presented. For example if the cola bottle was the interaction prompt once the user clicked on the cola bottle the invitation or teaser advertisement would transform into a full advertisement associated with the cola either within the advertising region or within all or some other part of the window. Once the user has experienced the full advertisement the user would be able to close the full advertisement as illustrated in below and return to the website or page or other area from which they started. When they do return to this area the invitation they first viewed could be changed to represent some other advertised good or service rather than continue to advertise the good service with which they have already engaged.

As noted above the cola bottle is just one example of an interaction prompt and the invention herein is hardly limited to just that example. Further interaction prompts include text i.e. Click Here to See Ad some other graphic aside from the bottle element a playback control a keyboard prompt voice activation etc. The types of interaction can vary greatly and could be different for different users depending on their psychographic data demographic characteristics or other factors such as prior interactions with interaction prompts i.e. if the user has only interacted with a particular type of interaction prompt in the past the same type of interaction prompt may continue to be used for that user versus switching to a different type .

Upon the user s engagement with the interaction prompt a number of other different actions could occur in addition to presenting the user with a full advertisement. If the user was watching a video or some other form of content within the window at the time of the interaction the viewing or navigation interface could be placed in a suspended state i.e. paused . In one embodiment such pause may be for the duration of the advertising message until a user action occurs or for some other duration. Of course not all users will necessarily appreciate having the content they are viewing disrupted by an advertisement that they may have inadvertently engaged with by doing something as innocuous as moving their mouse. In one embodiment the interaction prompt provides the user with a warning or counter to let the user know that what they are doing within the window is causing an advertisement to engage and that something will happen shortly if they do not do something to change the situation.

For example as illustrated in which shows a number of differently sized advertisement units invitations or teasers comprised of text images and elements an interaction prompt one of a possible plurality of engagement properties is located at the top right corner of each advertisement unit. The interaction prompt is comprised of a turned corner and an engagement warning or indicator that includes a change symbol as the warning device. The turned corner makes the advertisement look as though it is made of paper and that the upper right hand corner has been bent forward as if to turn the page. The turned corner gives the user the visual image that there is something else behind the advertisement that could be reached by interacting with the upper right hand corner.

The engagement warning and change symbol in this case a plus sign warns or indicates to the user that there is something more associated with the advertisement. For example the plus sign can warn the user that engaging with the advertisement unit could cause the advertisement to change in some way such as expanding increasing or growing. Other stylized symbols could be used in place of a standard plus sign to indicate expansion such as two intersecting curves that appear to form a plus sign or many other variations that indicate expansion growth or that something more might occur if the user interacts with the symbol. An expansion is just one way in which the change symbol could change to warn the user. For example as further discussed below the change symbol might be a minus sign to warn the user of a contraction if the symbol was engaged or a counter to warn the user of the passage of time. Many other possible ways to warn the user are possible.

Thus the user is presented with a number of visual clues that engagement with the interaction prompt or the advertisement unit might cause something to happen. As noted above rather than simply having the advertisement units become active i.e. change start to play video or music take over the window in which they are displayed expand in size in some way etc. when the user moves the mouse over the interaction prompt or over the advertisement unit the interaction prompt could be used to provide the user with a warning or notice of engagement. For example the change symbol could change from a plus sign to a number such as the number 3 when either the engagement prompt or the advertisement unit was moused over by the user. If the user continued to hold the cursor over the prompt or unit for more than a predetermined period of time such as one second the number 3 might change to the number 2 . If the user continued to hold the mouse over the prompt or unit as the countdown continued the advertisement would become fully active such as by pausing the other content being viewed and expanding to take over more visual space on the user s computer display.

While the counter method described above is particularly intuitive the systems and methods of embodiments are not limited to just a counter technique. Many other forms of user engagement warning or notices could be utilized. One significant value of the engagement warning is that it gives users an opportunity a period of time to decide whether they want to engage with the advertisement without any significant change occurring in the meantime. Many prior art techniques cause an immediate change such as expanding the advertisement stopping a video from playing redirecting the user to a different website. Many users find such techniques to be bothersome and annoying. The engagement warning of an embodiment avoids this problem.

The expanded advertisement shares other features in addition to the interaction prompt such as elements . As an aside although not shown in the figures the visual transition that occurs between an advertisement unit and an expanded active or full advertisement gives the developer of the advertisement an opportunity to identify itself. After a countdown passes or some other action has occurred that causes an advertisement to transition the advertisement developer could briefly display its logo name or some other identifier so that a user would be able to identify the entity that created the advertisement.

Returning to elements enable the advertisement units or expanded advertisements to have a number of additional functions and to extend or otherwise expand the user s experience. As illustrated in one element instructs the user to Roll over or Roll over to play some units and advertisements also include the universal play button to illustrate this feature to English and non English readers . If a user rolled over this element then the image could be transformed from just an image into video or the unit could be expanded to a larger advertisement . Another element instructs the user Next and includes an arrow button to further illustrate this feature. Selecting the Next element would cause the advertisement to be replaced by an entirely new the next advertisement that had already been cued up and was ready to play in the event the next element was selected. Thus if a user liked one advertisement the user might be interested in engaging with additional advertisements from either the same advertiser or related to the same product or from the same publisher etc. As previously mentioned the next advertisement could also be for a completely different advertiser. After the next advertisement there could be more next advertisements cued up and ready to become active and on and on until all of the advertisements that could be shown were shown to that user.

Another element might allow a user to watch a different video associated with the unit or do other things such as turn sound on or off bookmark or save the advertisement provide feedback or control other aspects of the user s experience. For example in elements enable the user to share the advertisement with a friend by opening an email application that can be used to email the advertisement to anyone. Elements could also be used to enable the user to visit the advertiser s website i.e. HONDA.COM . The number of element functions that could be developed to expand or extend the user s experience is limitless but a few related or additional examples are provided below with respect to .

The share tool enables the user to send the interactive advertisement to a different computer. In an alternative embodiment the share tool formats the interactive advertisement so the interactive advertisement will operate properly on the different computer.

In an embodiment the plurality of widgets can be navigated by the user to access a plurality of the second set of media assets. Alternatively the second set of engagement devices can include a share tool also enables the user to send one or more second media assets from the second set of media assets or one or more second engagement devices from the second set of engagement devices to a different computer.

In an embodiment the first set of media assets or the second set of media assets or both the first set and the second set of media assets include a widget and the share tool formats the widget to be embedded in the different computer. Alternatively the first set of media assets or the second set of media assets or both the first set and the second set of media assets include a widget and the share tool formats the widget as an attachment to an email message. In yet another embodiment the first set of media assets or the second set of media assets or both the first set and the second set of media assets includes a widget and the share tool embeds the widget into an email message.

In an embodiment the second set of engagement devices and the second set of media assets can be removed from the interactive advertisement by the user and used in a different location on the computer or on a different computer. Alternatively the first set of engagement devices and the first set of media assets can be removed from the interactive advertisement by the user and used in a different location on the computer or on a different computer.

In yet another embodiment the second set of media assets include one or more dynamic media assets wherein the dynamic media assets include one or more localized media assets wherein the second set of engagement devices include a localization tool that detects an IP address used by the computer traces the IP address to a zip code and informs the advertisement manager of the zip code and wherein the advertisement manager selects localized media assets that correspond to the zip code from a dynamic content source. Alternatively the first set of media assets include one or more dynamic media assets wherein the dynamic media assets include one or more localized media assets wherein the first set of engagement devices include a localization tool that detects an IP address used by the computer traces the IP address to a zip code and informs the advertisement manager of the zip code and wherein the advertisement manager selects localized media assets that correspond to the zip code from a dynamic content source.

In an embodiment the first set of media assets includes a plurality of different advertisements that are to be separately presented to the user and the first set of engagement devices includes a next advertisement tool that enables the user to move through the plurality of different advertisements.

When a user engages with the advertisement it expands into advertisement that provides a mini store where users can browse through numerous different products in this case a number of phones see the pricing for the offered products and purchase or learn more about the products. For example selecting the Learn More button under Phone might take a user to another website with more information about Phone such as its features or might take the user to an on line purchasing page where Phone can be purchased. Alternatively if a user was interested in the advertiser the phone company but hesitant to buy from the advertisement the user could select the Visit site button and go directly to the phone company s website.

The widgets may also be presented as push buttons or menus that expand horizontally or vertically when pressed. The widgets may also be enhanced with various graphic displays in order to encourage the user to interact with the widgets. For example the widgets may glow starting with a bright background color or border color fading slowly to a softer color and again slowly increasing in color brightness. The widgets may also become animated when the user moves the mouse over the widgets. For example a widget may jitter in place while the user moves the mouse over the widget.

In addition to the dynamic advertising elements discussed above many other dynamic elements could be utilized in an advertisement such as a widget a real time or downloadable application a dynamic micro site i.e. a mini site or weblet that is comprised of a web page or cluster of pages a slide show etc. The content illustrated also need not be static whether in the original or expanded form. Hence the images or text or other elements within an advertisement unit could be changed on some periodic basis such as after a period of time after the user s cursor has spent so much time over the element in question after the user has engaged with the advertisement in some other way or in many other ways as further noted below. Further as noted with respect to the share feature of the advertisements or the elements of the advertisement can be capable of independence from the website or other environment in which they first displayed. For example if the advertisement was created as a stand alone application or as a micro site versus being delivered by the browser it could be removed i.e. downloaded from the website on which it appears and used on its own in many other environments e.g. dragged and dropped onto a desktop or other storage area emailed or shared with others embedded in other electronic documents etc.

As noted above some or all of the components of the advertisement versus the advertisement as a whole could also have independence. For example a user may be able to grab a component of the advertisement such as a widget an application a slide show etc. and drop it onto their desktop or some other location or otherwise downloaded in some form. Preferably the component would include some indicator of the advertiser or the good service being advertised. A video an animation music etc. that could be removed from the advertisement and used in other ways could significantly enhance the value of the advertisement to the advertiser. Once removed from the advertisement the component could express additional independence and could be re sizeable and changeable in other ways.

Having described some of the various types of advertisements that could be generated the components and content of such advertisements and some of their many features it is now necessary to describe the manner in which advertisements are generated such as in the context of the architecture illustrated in . To generate an advertisement in a webpage or flash player for example a request must be made for the advertisement to be inserted in the webpage or player such as player . The application making the request or call is referred to herein as the calling application. The calling application could come in many different forms 1 a standard website or web application that is based on HTML JAVASCRIPT or CSS code 2 a rich media application delivered via a web based plug in such as a ADOBE FLASH plug in 3 a rich media component of a web application such as a FLASH or QUICKTIME based video player embedded game or widget 4 a mobile application such as an IPHONE or mobile JAVA application or 5 any other Internet connected application.

In one embodiment the calling application makes a request or call to the advertisement manager to embed an advertisement in the webpage or player via an application programming interface API provided by the advertisement manager . The advertisement manager is a collection of code that manages the user s advertising experience including loading the XML file referred to above from the advertising servers and rendering the advertisement as part of the calling application in this case player . Although the advertisement manager is shown in as part of the player the advertisement manager is a code library that could reside in any of a number of places within the user s computer or elsewhere that is accessible to the user s computer . For example the advertisement manager could be a FLASH file loaded into the player that is application specific e.g. .swf .

The API of the advertisement manager allows the calling application to pass on targeting data such as the user s age and gender and specifics on what kind of advertisement it wants such as the available size or particular advertisement types. The code and structure of the API varies depending on the type of calling application. For example the API for a video player may be totally different than the API for a web application which may be totally different than the API for an IPHONE application. The API can also provide extra functionality such as instructions regarding how an advertisement should be shown instructions for hiding an advertisement or a callback for informing the calling application that an advertisement has been shown or is being shown.

Once a request for an advertisement has been made to the advertisement manager from the calling application the advertisement manager would then make a request to the Advertising Server s to get a particular advertisement and in the process pass along any data about the user the kinds of advertisements that are allowed the available size and other data. The advertising server then picks an advertisement from a set of available advertisements based on the incoming data and other internal data such as which advertisements perform best which advertisements make the most money how many of each advertisement it is supposed to deliver etc. Once the advertising server has selected an advertisement to send to the calling application the advertising server will return a file to the advertisement manager to the calling application. This file includes advertising metadata corresponding to the selected advertisement. The form of the file varies depending on the type of calling application or the type of the advertisement but is most often an XML file and is referred to herein accordingly.

The advertising metadata defines the various elements including text image video or other rich media elements to be used in a particular advertisement. The advertising metadata also describes how those elements should be displayed what engagement data for that advertisement should be collected and where it should be sent and other data necessary to render and track the advertisement. Although the advertising metadata describes how elements should be displayed it does not control how the elements will actually be displayed on the user s computer which is managed by the advertisement manager . For example to display an advertisement on a user s computer comprised of a video and a headline of text the advertisement manager typically JavaScript and or ActionScript running on the user s computer client side code would read the XML file including the advertising metadata to determine what content to use i.e. the video and headline download that content from the advertisement servers or the content delivery network and determine where to put the video and the headline and how big to make them based on the space i.e. size and shape available for the advertisement.

Upon receipt of the XML file the advertisement manager parses the advertising metadata and loads any advertising media assets referenced in the advertising metadata from an advertising media server advertising servers . Advertising media assets are media elements media files used in an advertisement such as images videos flash games etc. The advertising media server is a web application that is capable of delivering the advertising media assets which are referenced by the advertising metadata by their retrieval location such as a URL within the advertising media server. The advertising media server can reside on any web server collection of web servers or a network such as the content delivery network and may or may not be on the same physical server as the advertising servers .

Once the advertising media assets have been loaded the corresponding advertisement can be displayed to the user. How and when the advertisement manager loads the advertising media assets and displays the advertisement varies based on the advertisement type the calling application the available space and other factors. For example if the available space is very small the advertisement manager may choose not to display all of the advertising media assets for the advertisement or to reduce the font size or if the calling application is a video player the advertisement manager may choose not to display the advertisement until a certain amount of the video has been played. Likewise based on the time of day or the passed on data regarding the user s age gender location etc. the advertising media assets might be varied.

As a result the advertisement unit is not limited to the standard formats specified by the IAB but rather can be dynamically sized and structured to work in any space provided. As shown in the text images elements and interaction prompt of the advertisement unit can be sized arranged altered left out or added to as needed to form an advertisement for any situation. Thus an advertisement could be created for any standard sized advertisement unit as well as any non standard size unit by having the advertising manager decide what advertising media assets best fit within the space provided for the advertisement and then arrange those assets accordingly.

If there is very little space for the advertisement then it may only be comprised of a line of text or just a word and an interaction prompt which may be the word itself or some other visible or invisible element . For example a crown unit i.e. an advertisement which sits on top of other content could be dynamically generated in a very constrained space that may only allow for a single word or line of text in a small font or a single image or graphic. With a little more space it might be possible to add an image or larger image. An even large space could allow for a larger version of the same image the text in a bigger font additional text various elements a video box etc. Any of the advertising media assets of the advertisement unit could be dynamically refreshed once the advertisement was generated or selected in some sort of dynamic fashion so that different users seeing the same advertisement at the same time might get different content assets or even the same user seeing an advertisement for the same thing might get different content assets each time.

As noted above any component of the advertisement specified by the XML file could also be dynamic. For example any advertising media asset could be supported by an RSS feed thereby enabling that asset to be frequently updated or modified. The advertisement manager may also make subsequent even frequent requests to additional servers for dynamic advertising data to replace content or to implement extra functionality. For example as illustrated in if an advertisement is for a television show or game the advertisement manager may make a request to a server for the show s game s air time in the user s time zone which could then be displayed with the advertisement. Extra functionality such as the ability to send an advertisement to a friend via email might be accomplished by having the advertisement manager contact an email server for processing the email as illustrated in .

These various advertisements can also be constructed from reusable structural and or advertising media asset components. For example an animation used in a ticker advertisement an advertisement shown in a ticker i.e. a small area that overlays or obstructs content for one advertiser could be used by the same advertiser in a different type of advertisement or even a different advertiser for a different product service. This can be accomplished by having multiple XML files specify the same media asset s . These same media assets would then be downloaded from the advertising media server i.e. content delivery network for use in the different advertisements. Other types of advertisements that can be specified to the advertisement manager by the XML file include without limitation 

In addition to playing or helping to facilitate the presentation or playing of an advertisement the advertisement manager serves other purposes. The advertisement manager can be used to track user events such as each instance where the user pauses or plays the content or when the content begins and ends. Thus the advertisement manager continues to control the advertising experience by managing the advertisement running any animations or videos checking for user interactions and updating the advertisement as needed. The advertisement manager may also track certain events and send data on when or how the event occurred and send that information to an advertising data collection server for reporting or billing as further described below.

The combination of the player and appropriate coding with the advertisement servers advertisement manager and content delivery network allows interactive advertisements to be provided to any websites that hosts a player of any form. The present method and system also allows for advertisement to be structured shaped and positioned in any manner that will invite a user to watch an advertiser s message.

The remaining major component of is the application servers . depicts a block diagram of an exemplary application server s according to one embodiment. The application server s may provide central control of certain system platform functions such as providing content delivery network control providing a central website for the publisher s home page providing account management including reporting server functions and collecting and storing data about users providing a source of executable downloads for the player browser plug ins providing automatic updates to player providing logging of data flow and usage providing authorization for use of the components of the system such as uploading content to the content delivery network providing other controls to facilitate the manipulation and viewing of content files and providing the advertising data collection server. This latter server is a web application which collects engagement data. When a user interacts with a particular advertisement the advertisement manager notifies the advertising data collection server of the engagement which in turns stores the data for future use. Data from the advertising data collection server can then be used to provide reports and to determine how much the advertiser should pay if the advertiser is paying on an engagement basis.

As noted in the Background of the Invention section in the past advertisers have been obligated to pay publishers for each advertisement primarily based on pay per impression PPI or pay per click PPC compensation models even in the absence of any evidence that a user has paid any attention to the advertisements in question. Only paying publishers when a click through occurs the other primary form of compensation however goes too far the other way in that it is not always reasonable or appropriate to expect a user to have to leave the website they are viewing to go to another website corresponding to the advertisement. An embodiment provides an alternative to PPI and PPC compensation models without requiring click through as a compensation alternative. An embodiment couples the engagement based advertisement described above with a new compensation model that forces greater accountability on publishers and enables advertisers to more objectively measure the effectiveness of their advertisements.

In one embodiment when a user engages or interacts with the displayed advertisement such as by moving the cursor over the advertisement unit or the interaction prompt or engaging in one of the other manners described above the advertiser is assured that the user has seen the advertisement and paid some attention to it. Any act of engagement and the level of such engagement by a user can then be tracked and reported to determine appropriate compensation for a publisher. If the user s engagement is more than just passing such as resulting in the advertisement becoming active then the advertiser would be provided with an even higher level of assurance and the publisher might be paid an even higher amount of money. The money paid could also be based on different types of engagement and or the amount of time spent by the user engaging the advertisement. For example the passage of a mouse over the interaction prompt might be paid at the lowest rate while allowing the countdown to get to 2 or 1 but short of letting the advertisement become active could be paid at a higher rate. Allowing the advertisement to become active would generate an even higher rate. A user s emailing or otherwise sharing of an advertisement could result in different revenue including the resulting stream of additional viewers to whom the advertisement was sent or shared with which could be tracked by the advertisement. A click through by the user to the advertiser s website might be compensated even higher. Likewise a single user that uses the next advertisement feature to view multiple advertisements from the same advertiser could be priced at a different rate.

In an embodiment rather than pay on a per user basis engagements for multiple users over some period of time could be aggregated with fees being based on aggregation totals or even percentages e.g. 10 000 users moused over without further engagement 5 000 partially counted down through the interaction prompt 1 000 allowed the advertisement to become active 500 clicked through etc. Thus many different means of tracking and reporting user engagement is possible and many different compensation schemes accordingly can result.

This engagement based compensation model is more trustworthy than pay per impression based models because user intent and interest in the advertisement is not inferred or assumed based on the mere display of an ad but rather from true engagement with the advertisement engagement being defined herein as interaction that falls short of a click through. Further enhancements to the model include certain technological measures that avoid or account for engagement fraud that could be caused by manual or automated methods that appear to indicate engagement when no actual engagement by a user has occurred.

Potentially fraudulent activity includes engagements from known suspicious IP addresses or browser user agents unusual engagement levels from particular users unusual ratios of engagement types unusual amounts of time between engagement types etc. For example if a user starts a video and then one second later finishes that video that activity is probably fraudulent. Likewise if a particular IP address shows lots of mouse overs but no video views or 100 video views fraud could also be suspected. When fraudulent activity is detected or suspected the advertisement manager could disable the advertisement so no further engagement is possible. Alternatively if fraudulent engagement with an advertiser s advertisement is detected any engagement accounting associated with that advertisement could be adjusted by the amount of fraud involved.

Likewise the model could be further enhanced through the application of an advanced advertising marketplace that allows advertisers to bid on the amounts to be paid per engagement measured engagement different type of engagement etc. in an auction environment. This type of advanced marketplace when combined with the engagement model of an embodiment would allow advertisers to reach certain targeted demographics or other targeted criteria such as noted above with much greater levels of assurance and reliability than present models make possible. Under this model advertisers are only obligated to pay when a user interacts with the displayed advertisement not upon the mere display of the advertisement alone.

An embodiment of the present invention comprises a fixed position advertisement positioned anywhere on a portion of a web page currently being viewed by a user on a web browser window. The advertisement is described as having a fixed position because the advertisement remains in a fixed position and in view even as the user scrolls the web page. It is typical for web pages to require scrolling in order to view the entire contents of a web page due to screen size limitations of devices. For example only the top part of a web page may be within view when the user visits a web page requiring the user to scroll down in order to view the rest of the web page. Traditional advertisements placed within such a webpage scroll with the page and are quickly lost from view. The fixed position advertisement is placed in a position within the current viewable portion of the webpage that remains in view of the user even as the user scrolls the web page in various directions.

In one embodiment an advertisement could be made to stretch across the full width or height of a web browser window with the position of the advertisement remaining fixed either at the top bottom left or right side of the browser window even as the browser window is scrolled up down left and right along the web page. The advertisement could also stretch a fraction of the full width or a fraction of the full height of the web browser window.

The fixed position advertisement is not limited to top bottom left and right sides of the web browser window. The advertisement could also be fixed to any position of the web browser window such as the bottom left corner of the web browser window to the left of the main menu of a web page etc. The advertisement could also be fixed so as to effectively float at some intermediate position on the web page as the page is scrolled not the top bottom left or right but somewhere in between. As such it might cover up content on the web page that scrolls under it or the content could effectively flow around the advertisement so that no content is covered. In addition the advertisement could have a fixed size which does not stretch to fit the width or height of the web browser window. For example the advertisement could be diagonal rectangular circular or other polygonal shape with the actual size and shape depending on the content of the advertisement or the amount of free space available on the web page. Regardless of the position or size of the advertisement the fixed position advertisement remains in view as the user scrolls the web page.

The fixed position advertisement is especially useful for web pages with large amounts of content which force the user to scroll down a page in order to view all of the content or simply to find the content of interest to the user. This tends to be the case for blog pages where each blog entry is appended to existing or previous blog entries. This often creates very long web pages that require substantial scrolling in order to view all of the web page s content in the browser window. However the fixed position advertisement can also be advantageously used on a web page of any length and or width because it allows the advertisement to be exposed to the user for a longer period of time than for traditional advertisements. Traditional advertisements statically placed at a particular location on the web page can be easy to overlook and can quickly go out of a user s view as the user scrolls up or down or left or right to access various parts of the web page. The herein disclosed fixed position advertisement solves this problem by allowing the advertisement to remain in view as long as the user does not close the advertisement or the current web page.

In an embodiment the fixed position advertisement would stretch the full width or height of the current HTML frame. For example if a web page is displayed using two frames with a first frame positioned on top of a second frame the fixed position advertisement could be displayed only on the top frame. Alternatively if the first frame corresponds to a third party website and the second frame corresponds to the current website then the fixed position advertisement could be displayed on the second frame corresponding to the current website. As previously discussed in embodiments the fixed position advertisement may stretch a fraction of the full width or the full height of the current HTML frame or may have a fixed size and position such as that bottom left corner that that does not stretch to fit the size of the web browser window or the current HTML frame.

In an embodiment if the advertisement was fixed at the top or bottom of the browser window then the advertisement would stretch the full width of the browser window and would have a height of 40 pixels. Alternatively if the embodiment was fixed at the left or right side of the browser window then the advertisement would stretch the full height of the browser window and would have a width of 40 pixels. While these dimensions appear to work well these dimensions could be readily customized by the owner or administrator of the web page.

The fixed position advertisement may consist of advertisements with text images videos animated advertisements other types of advertisements or a combination of all of these. Animated advertisements can include advertisements using technologies such as FLASH SHOCKWAVE SILVERLIGHT an applet other web browser plug ins etc.

In an embodiment the fixed position advertisement would be an interactive advertisement including an interaction prompt as previously discussed herein. For example if a user visits a web page incorporating the herein disclosed fixed position advertisement and moves his or her mouse over the advertisement a counter starting from a high number and decrementing by one every second or some other predetermined time interval can warn the user that the full advertisement will be deployed once the counter reaches zero or some other predetermined number . The height of the fixed position advertisement will depend on the actual website and can be dynamically configured. Ideally the advertisement would fit one to two lines of text images or image strips or even a scaled version of an animation or video. The fixed position advertisement could also have a minimum size and a maximum size associated as default properties forcing a minimum and a maximum size regardless of the properties of the website.

While embodiments of the fixed position advertisement have been described in reference to it is intended that changes and modifications can be made to the described embodiments without departing from the true scope and spirit of the invention. For example embodiments illustrated in may include the turned corner on a different position such as in the bottom left corner instead of being in the upper right corner or may not include the turned corner at all. Alternatively a different interaction prompt may be used instead of the turned corner etc.

In another embodiment the fixed position advertisement can additionally act as a toolbar allowing the user to perform actions such as saving the advertisement sharing or forwarding the advertisement to another party visiting the advertisement website entering a comment regarding the advertisement etc. In yet another embodiment the user would be able to resize the advertisement unit. For example the user may want to view the details of the advertisement in a larger mode so the user can click and hold one of the corners of the fixed position advertisement and move the mouse while holding the corner of the advertisement dynamically scaling the size of the advertisement based on the user s mouse movement. Alternatively the user could resize the advertisement to different dimensions. For example the user can resize the shape of the fixed position advertisement so that it only spans half of the browser window or another desired fraction of the total width or height of the browser window. In another embodiment the fixed position advertisement would include a set of buttons that can allow the user to change the position of the advertisement. For example the user can move the fixed position advertisement from the top of the browser window to the bottom of the browser window or to the left or right of the browser window. Alternatively the user could select this option from a menu. This would be useful for websites which make use of fixed position toolbars at the top or bottom of the webpage to provide a set of functionality related to the website such as FACEBOOK and MYSPACE. The position of the advertisement could also be determined based on whether it is detected at load time whether the current website already has a toolbar.

Having a fixed position advertisement on a website allows for the advertisement content to be visible in the user s browser window at all times even as the user scrolls through a long web page or visits other sections of the website. In an embodiment the fixed position of the advertisement can be determined based on usage patterns or demographic information about the user. Usage patterns may include a rate of interaction based on the browser window position of the fixed position advertisement. For example a particular user may have a documented history of higher incidences of rates of interacting with advertisement prompts when fixed position advertisements are placed at the top of the browser window. Alternatively if a certain demographic for example male users under 25 years of age tend to interact at higher rates with fixed position advertisements when the advertisements are presented at the bottom of the browser window then an advertisement would be positioned at the bottom of the webpage for users fitting that profile.

The fixed advertisement unit can be made to remain fixed at a position relative to the browser window by setting the position property of the fixed position advertisement. The position property can be set to have an absolute position which does not change when the user scrolls. Alternatively the position of the advertisement can be updated dynamically as the user scrolls a web page.

An event handler can be associated with scrolling events in the case of updating dynamically the position of the fixed position advertisement resulting in the event handler called whenever the user scrolled the web page. When called the event handler can update the position of the fixed position advertisement based on the scrolling direction the size of the display screen the web page content etc.

Such a dynamic update of the position of the fixed position advertisement based on user scrolling can also be used to give the appearance of web page elements flowing around the fixed position advertisement. For example as the position of the fixed position advertisement is updated the event handler can also check whether the fixed position advertisement overlaps other web page element based on their respective positions sizes and shapes. Methods for checking whether a plurality of elements overlap are well known in the art. If it was found that there was an overlap between the fixed position advertisement and a number of other web page elements then the position of the other web elements could be updated accordingly based on the web page content. However at times it may not be practical to update the positions of the other web page elements since such changes may completely change the layout or the look and feel of the webpage. An alternative solution may simply resize the other web page elements to avoid overlap with the fixed position advertisement. Yet another embodiment may update the position of the fixed position advertisement regardless of whether it overlaps or covers any other web page elements as the user scrolls the web page.

Cascading style sheets CSS used to control the style and formatting of websites can be used to specify the position of the advertisement unit by setting the position property of the fixed position advertisement unit to the fixed value. Other CSS properties can also be used to update position size look and formatting and shape of the fixed position advertisement or of other elements in a web page. While several methods of implementing the fixed position advertisement have been described alternative methods used to implement an advertisement which remains in a fixed position and in view of the user as the user scrolls the web page are encompassed in embodiments of the invention.

While several embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it is to be understood that the techniques described herein can have a multitude of additional uses and applications. Accordingly the invention should not be limited to just the particular description and various drawing figures contained in this specification that merely illustrate the several embodiments and application of the principles of the invention.

