---

title: Process enhancement via stimuli responsive particle surfaces
abstract: Methods for enhancing the processing of a polymer composite are provided herein. in some embodiments, a method for enhancing the processing of a polymer composite may include masking a at least one functional group on a surface of a particle by using a at least one protective group; mixing the particles into a polymer to form a composite; processing the composite; and applying a at least one stimulus to the composite during the processing of the composite or after processing of the composite is complete in order to remove the at least one protective group from the functional group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08809435&OS=08809435&RS=08809435
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08809435
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120516
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to the processing of composites and more particularly to a method of enhancing the processing of composites.

In a polymer composite a strong interaction such as a hydrogen or covalent bond is often desired between a particle filler and the polymer material within the composite. However this strong bonding causes a significant premature rise in viscosity as the particle filler begins to bond with the polymer material in the composite before the particle filler can be sufficiently dispersed within the composite. The increase in viscosity heightens the difficulty of processing the polymer composite. In addition the functionality on the particle filler that causes a strong particle polymer interaction can often simultaneously cause a strong particle particle interaction which leads to particle agglomeration and heightens the difficulty of processing the polymer composite due to an inability to adequately disperse the particles in the polymer.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods for enhancing the processing of a polymer composite. In some embodiments a method of enhancing the processing of a polymer composite may include masking a at least one functional group on a surface of a particle by using a at least one protective group mixing the particles into a polymer to form a composite processing the composite and applying a at least one stimulus to the composite during the processing of the composite or after processing of the composite is complete in order to remove the at least one protective group from the functional group.

In some embodiments a method of enhancing the processing of at least one of a polymer melt a pre polymer formulation or a monomer solution may include masking at least one of an amine a carboxylic acid an alcohol or a thiol on a surface of a particle by using at least one of t butylcarbamate 1 adamantylcarbamate vinyl carbamate or di tert butyl dicarbonate mixing the particles into a polymer to form a composite processing the composite and applying at least one of light heat or an acid catalyst to the composite during the processing of the composite or after processing of the composite is complete in order to remove the at least one of t butylcarbamate 1 adamantylcarbamate vinyl carbamate or di tert butyl dicarbonate from the at least one of amine carboxylic acid alcohol or thiol.

In some embodiments a method of enhancing the processing of a polymer composite may include masking an amine on a surface of a silica particle by using di tert butyl dicarbonate mixing the particles into a polymer to form a composite processing the composite and applying at least one of light heat or an acid catalyst to the composite during the processing of the composite or after processing of the composite is complete in order to remove the di tert butyl dicarbonate from the amine.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise a method and apparatus for enhancing the processing of a polymer composite by forming a switchable coating on the surface of a filler particle.

The protecting group used in method is dependent upon the functional group that is to be protected. In some embodiments where the functional group is an amine the protecting group may include substituted and unsubstituted carbamites such as t butylcarbamate 1 adamantylcarbamate vinyl carbamate or di tert butyl dicarbonate. In some embodiments where the functional group is a carboxyl group the protecting group may include methyl esters or benzyl esters. In some embodiments where the functional group is a thiol the protecting group may include compounds such as tert butylthioether. In some embodiments where the functional group is a hydroxyl group the protecting group may include various ether compounds such as methoxy ethoxy methyl ether tert butyl ether methoxy methyl ether or tetrahydropyranyl ether. In some embodiments multiple protecting groups may be bonded to multiple functional groups on the surface of a particle. A wide array of protecting group chemistries are available to those of skill in the art such as reviewed in by Jeremy Robertson Oxford University Press 2000 or by Philip J. Kocienski Thieme 2005. These citations are incorporated by reference for their teachings on protecting groups protection group coupling reactions and protecting group release stimuli.

At following the protection of the functional group the particles including particles with masked functional groups are mixed into the desired composite. In some embodiments the composite is a polymer melt or a pre polymer formulation or a monomer. At the composite is processed into its final form which can include for example adhesive bonds structural panels beams or other structural components encapsulants conformal coatings and potting materials for electronic devices and sensors flip chip underfills paints and protective coatings or the like.

At a at least one stimulus is applied to the composite material in order to cleave the bond between the at least one functional group and the at least one protecting group. This allows the functional group to create a strong bond with the polymer composite. Application of the stimulus may occur at various points. For example in some embodiments the stimulus is applied to the composite during processing of the composite. Alternatively in some embodiments the stimulus is applied to the composite after processing of the composite is complete. In some embodiments the stimulus may consist of applying to the composite at least one of light heat or pH altering substance to the composite. In some embodiments the pH altering substance may be a carboxylic acid hydrochloric acid nitric acid acetic acid p toluenesulfonic acid or other similar acids or organic acids. In some embodiments the pH altering substance may be an acidic species generated from photo acid generators such as bis p tert butylphenyl iodonium perfluorooctane sulfonate or the like. In some embodiments the acidic species may be from acidic functional groups present in the polymer where the combination of processing temperature and acidic functionality in the polymer can be exploited to stimulate the deprotection reaction. In some embodiments multiple stimuli may be applied to the composite material.

Exemplary particles include without limitation silica kaolin carbon nanotubes graphitic particles graphene carbon fiber silica glass glass microballoons nickel gold calcium carbonate alumina titanium dioxide carbon black barium carbonate magnesium carbonate barium titanate quarts clay based particulates mica talc quantum dots silver cellulose based or other wood based fillers and the like. Exemplary polymeric particles include without limitation polystyrene polymethylmethacrylate poly lactides and the like. Exemplary polymers include both thermoplastic and thermosetting materials polystyrene polycarbonate poly methyl methacrylate polyethylene polypropylene poly tetrafluoro ethylene poly ethylene terephthalate poly ethylene naphthalate poly butylenes terephthalate poly butadiene polyamide polyimide poly ether sulphone epoxies thermoplastic elastomers silicones butadiene and other rubbers or polymers described above functionalized with reactive groups like maleic anhydride and the like.

Compounds used to form functional groups include without limitation aminoalkylsilanes such as aminopropyltriethoxysilane aminochlorosilanes amine functional polymers and block copolymers grafted to the particle surface such as linear and branched polyethyleneimine amine or hydroxyl functionalized coatings monolayers and self assembled monolayer on metal metal oxide or ceramic surfaces amine or hydroxyl functionalized phosphonic acid ligands amine or hydroxyl functionalized carboxylic or sulphonic acidic ligands and the like. Spacing groups such as propyl in aminopropyltriethoxysilane can be for example C2 C12 straight chain or branched alkyls. The compounds include the functional group to be protected and groups which can be the same that form associations or bonds with the particles of strength sufficient for composite formation as will be recognized in the art.

In a specific embodiment described herein an amine functionality on silica is protected with di tert butyldicarbonate BOC to form a tert butyl carbamate protected amine. depict a schematic of a specific embodiment of the protection strategy applied to silica particles. As depicted at a aminopropyltriethoxysilane APTS is applied to the surface of the silica. At di tert butyldicarbonate BOC is utilized to protect the amine functionality by forming a tert butyl carbamate. Finally at an external stimulus light heat pH change is applied to the composite to deprotect the tert butyl carbamate and expose the amine functionality.

This protection chemistry can be de protected to reform the amine by the application of acid heat or light if a photo acid generator is utilized to generate the acid upon light exposure . As mentioned above a variety of different protection chemistries may be useful for protecting various groups including amines hydroxyls carboxyls and thiols. In some embodiments these protective groups are de protected by the application of acid heat or light exposure that causes acid generation from a photo acid generator. In some embodiments the protective group can be deprotected by the application of base heat or light if a photo base generator is utilized to generate the base upon light exposure . An example of this base catalyzed deprotection chemistry includes the protection of an amine functionality with 9 fluorenylmethyl carbamate or the protection of a hydroxyl functionality with 9 fluorenylmethyl carbonate both of which can be deprotected under basic conditions. In some embodiments light exposure can be the stimulus directly. An example of direct light stimulus is the protection of a hydroxyl functionality with o nitrobenzyl ether which deprotects to reveal the hydroxyl functionality upon ultraviolet light exposure. In some embodiments the heat stimulus may be due to direct input of thermal energy into the composite from an external source such as electrical heating elements. In some embodiments the heat stimulus may be due to polymer processing. Examples include exothermic reactions of curing resins such as an epoxy viscous heating from flow in high viscosity solutions or melt processing of thermoplastic based composites. In some embodiments the heat stimulus may be generated by the application of external magnetic or electric fields which can cause heating of a composite that contains particles or fillers that have magnetic or electric field susceptibility. An example is a polymer filled with nickel carbon nanotubes or iron oxide particles.

The amine coated silica particles obtained from this process are centrifuged and resuspended in 100 ml of methanol. 3.05 grams of di tert butyldicarbonate BOC and 0.1 ml of triethylamine are added and the mixture is stirred at 40 Celsius for two hours. Purification is achieved by three repetitions of a centrifuge decant and resuspension cycle with toluene. shows the amine group successfully protected by di tert butyldicarbonate thereby changing the FTIR spectrum to shown an absorption at 1560 cm corresponding to the carbonyl absorption from the carbamate protective group.

Thermogravimetric analysis TGA was also performed on the carbamate protected amine coated silica particles. A sample mass of said particulate system was monitored under a nitrogen atmosphere while the temperature was ramped from about 35 Celsius to about 500 Celsius at a rate of about 20 Celsius per minute. depicts thermogravimetric analysis data from an amine coated silica system and BOC protected amine coated silica system . An initial drop off in mass at about 100 Celsius in both systems is attributable to water loss. The greater hydrophilic nature of the amine coated particles allows them to maintain greater hydration on a mass ratio basis 4.07 wt vs. 1.05 wt as compared to the hydrophobic BOC protected particles. At approximately 200 Celsius a large thermal decomposition on the BOC protected system representing approximately 7.8 wt mass loss corresponds to the protective group being removed from the amine on the surface of the silica particles by the heat in the TGA process. There is no similar mass loss on the amine coated silica system . Further decomposition of the organic layer on the silica surface can be seen at approximately 375 Celsius for the BOC protected system and the amine coated silica system . The thermal decomposition of BOC represents approximately two thirds of the total organic mass loss in the BOC protected particles. As the BOC protected group corresponds to about two thirds of the total weight of organics in the protected system there was near complete protection of the amine functionalities.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

