---

title: Search quality via query provenance visualization
abstract: Methods and arrangements for enhancing search quality. Query search results are displayed, and search query provenance related to the search results is graphically depicted. There is graphically accorded an investigative function to avail investigation of at least one aspect of the search query provenance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892546&OS=08892546&RS=08892546
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08892546
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
The use of online search engines has proliferated considerably over time. Conventionally consumers and users have come to expect very rapid search turnaround time to the point that a return of search results can now be virtually instantaneous.

However the mere production of voluminous results with rapid turnaround does not always provide a satisfactory body of information for consumers and users to employ. Particularly it is often the case that that consumers and users wish to understand the results at a finer level or gain insight as to how the results were obtained. Among other things this can help guide more efficient searching in the future at the consumer user end. At the same time even administrators can come to understand and appreciate inefficiencies and shortcomings in how search results are produced possibly even prompting changes to a search algorithm. Conventional information retrieval systems and arrangements however offer little more than a black box where insights on the production of search results are difficult if not impossible to obtain.

In summary one aspect of the invention provides a method comprising displaying query search results and graphically depicting search query provenance related to the search results said depicting comprising graphically according an investigative function to avail investigation of at least one aspect of the search query provenance.

Another aspect of the invention provides an apparatus comprising at least one processor and a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith and executable by the at least one processor the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to display query search results computer readable program code configured to graphically depict search query provenance related to the search results and computer readable program code configured to graphically accord an investigative function to avail investigation of at least one aspect of the search query provenance.

An additional aspect of the invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to display query search results computer readable program code configured to graphically depict search query provenance related to the search results and computer readable program code configured to graphically accord an investigative function to avail investigation of at least one aspect of the search query provenance.

For a better understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention together with other and further features and advantages thereof reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and the scope of the claimed embodiments of the invention will be pointed out in the appended claims.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments of the invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations in addition to the described exemplary embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in at least one embodiment. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to give a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art may well recognize however that the various embodiments of the invention can be practiced without at least one of the specific details thereof or can be practiced with other methods components materials et cetera. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The description now turns to the figures. The illustrated embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the figures. The following description is intended only by way of example and simply illustrates certain selected exemplary embodiments of the invention as claimed herein.

It should be noted that the flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems apparatuses methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises at least one executable instruction for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Specific reference will now be made herebelow to . It should be appreciated that the processes arrangements and products broadly illustrated therein can be carried out on or in accordance with essentially any suitable computer system or set of computer systems which may by way of an illustrative and non restrictive example include a system or server such as that indicated at in . In accordance with an example embodiment most if not all of the process steps components and outputs discussed with respect to can be performed or utilized by way of a processing unit or units and system memory such as those indicated respectively at and in whether on a server computer a client computer a node computer in a distributed network or any combination thereof.

To facilitate easier reference in advancing from to and through a reference numeral is advanced by a multiple of 100 in indicating a substantially similar or analogous component or element with respect to at least one component or element found in at least one earlier figure among .

Broadly contemplated herein in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention are methods and arrangements for affording a visualization of search query provenance. In this connection methods as broadly contemplated herein can leverage a notion of programmable search which is based on a fully transparent rule driven approach towards results ranking.

The term search query provenance as employed herein may be considered in accordance with embodiments of the invention to refer to information relating to the chronology development and or other contributing factors that imparts an understanding of how a search query result is obtained in the course of executing a search query. Thus search query provenance can permit an overview or tracking of contributing factors to a search query result through any and all transformations analyses and interpretations of a search query and or one or more of its components when a system executes or acts upon a search query by way of generating one or more search query results. This can help consumers and users to understand a search query result at a finer level and gain insight as to how the result was obtained.

As such in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a programmable search based system where the decisions made by each component of the system are known is leveraged to yield and effectively display search query provenance. As such decisions made by search system components are visualized in a manner to help a search administrator or even consumer user to better understand why a search result is being brought back for a query. A search result can also be ranked relative to other results in the list of results of the same query. Insight can also be gained as to why a document is not being brought back by an initial query. In addition a visualization arrangement as broadly contemplated herein can also help a search administrator improve search results by providing information that helps in the creation of appropriate rules.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention there is provided a visualization of all information relating to decisions made by a search system between the input of a search query to the production of each and every search result thereby according query provenance for each result. An administrator can then compare multiple results for the same query in a manner to better understand their ranking. An administrator can then also investigate a specific document and understand the ranking of the document in the results set of a query. Information can also be provided to allow a search administrator to modify or add new runtime rules or fix a backend tokenizer to improve search quality.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a search query provenance provision arrangement can be implemented as a web application based on a client server side architecture. It can also be implemented as a single application on a desktop laptop or tablet computer.

As such in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a tracking mode can be evoked wherein results are collapsed to a smaller area to make room for a graph layout. Using graphical representations of each result selected for tracking e.g. via rectangles representing results and respectively in the present example lines can visually emanate from such terminal nodes and eventually trace to one or the other circle in interpretations field .

Accordingly in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the graph layout yields metadata fields which by way of example may be depicted as ovals. Each metadata field represents a semantic bucket and the size of an oval is proportional to the importance of each bucket . A field of metadata snippets is interposed between the metadata fields and terminal nodes . Essentially when a document is analyzed it will be associated with one or more metadata fields each of which describes a certain property of the document e.g. document title author date of creation URL contained in the document the body of the document etc . The content of each metadata field is described by a snippet of the field referred to as metadata snippets herein which is typically a substring of the field value.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the metadata ovals in are connected with lines to the circles in the interpretations field . A distinct color or pattern can be employed with respect to lines emanating from each of the terminal nodes . Generally the thickness of a line can correspond to a relative strength of the corresponding matching. Less important information about matches can be hidden or shown in a faded manner e.g. as shown with respect to individual metadata snippet .

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention ranking vectors as part of a fired rules display can explain or depict ranking among the tracked results. Particularly a ranking vector can depict a numeric value for different aspects of the results e.g. recency number of tags which are then aggregated to determine a final rank. In this manner a user can come to understand how a particular result received its rank and compare the individual quantitative factors contributing to the final score or rank of one result with those of another result. Thus here the ranking vectors show how the two selected results depicted in and compared to each other in each of several factors that contribute to a final score and ranking the present illustrative example is specific implementation the aggregation is simply to take the first winner among the documents from top to bottom .

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention when a user mouses over each of the components in the visualization more detailed information can be displayed. Thus for example and as shown in detailed information about a result can be shown when a terminal node corresponding to a result is moused over. By way of another example and as shown in an actual Lucene document corresponding to a result can be obtained e.g. via a pop up window . Lucene is a trademark of the Apache Software Foundation www.apache.org. By way of another example and as shown in a representation of an actual corresponding webpage can be displayed e.g. via a pop up window . The views shown in can be obtained essentially via any suitable arrangement or action e.g. by clicking on a document icon next to a Result label corresponding to a specific result to obtain Lucene document or by clicking on a magnifier icon next to a Result label to obtain the webpage representation

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention and as illustrated in provisions are made to permit a user to lookup edit add and remove runtime rules. As such illustrates a UI providing a runtime rule editor. depicts a UI in a mode for editing rules and depicts a UI showing results of such editing by way of a saving and reloading configuration. then illustrates a UI which provides an effect validation function and thereby depicts how an edited rule affects search results. Here in particular by way of an illustrative example the rewrite rules show a newly added rule that has been fired in the course of validation. Further a new result here Result 2 ends up being depicted with its own terminal block and corresponding track that connects to metadata snippets metadata fields and interpretations in a manner consistent with other examples described and illustrated herein. The ranking vectors also show the inclusion of the new result.

As shown in query search results are displayed and search query provenance related to the search results is graphically depicted . There is graphically accorded an investigative function to avail investigation of at least one aspect of the search query provenance .

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove. In accordance with embodiments of the invention computing node may not necessarily even be part of a cloud network but instead could be part of another type of distributed or other network or could represent a stand alone node. For the purposes of discussion and illustration however node is variously referred to herein as a cloud computing node .

In cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to at least one processor or processing unit a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents at least one of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that are accessible by computer system server and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by at least one data media interface. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system at least one application program other program modules and program data. Each of the operating systems at least one application program other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with at least one external device such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. at least one device that enables a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with at least one other computing device. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with at least one network such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

It should be noted that aspects of the invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in at least one computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having at least one wire a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the invention may be written in any combination of at least one programming language including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer device partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture. Such an article of manufacture can include instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

This disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain principles and practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be affected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure.

