---

title: Electrostatically-addressed MEMS array system and method of use
abstract: The present invention provides an improved electrostatic micro actuator array system comprising a plurality of electrostatic micro actuators, each of the micro actuators further comprising at least one hold-down electrode and at least two pull-down electrodes positioned to actuate the micro actuator. A hold-down signal line is then coupled to each of the hold-down electrodes of each of the plurality of micro actuators and a plurality of first pull-down signal lines coupled to one of the at least two pull-down electrodes of each micro actuator and a plurality of second pull-down signal lines coupled to another of the at least two pull-down electrodes of each micro actuator, the first pull-down signal lines and the second pull-down signal lines configured in a cross-point matrix such that a unique pair of first pull-down signal lines and second pull-down signal lines is associated with each of the plurality of micro actuators.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08437062&OS=08437062&RS=08437062
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08437062
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120413
---
The application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 057 915 filed on Mar. 28 2008 entitled Electrostatically addressed MEMS Array System and Method of Use now U.S. Pat. No. 8 179 581 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 908 474 filed on Mar. 28 2007 entitled Electrostatically Addressed MEMS Array .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DASG60 00 C 0089 awarded by the US Army Space and Missile Defense Command. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Measuring the intensity of the light passing through a medium at specific wavelengths one can determine the presence and concentration of various chemical and biological components. Absorption can be caused by a chemical reaction with an added reagent or by direct absorption by the molecules. Fluorescence can also be a powerful analytical tool especially in biological detection. Dispersing the light into spectral components in a spectrograph and then detecting the wavelengths of interest using an array of photodetectors can determine the intensities at specific wavelengths of interest. Commercial spectrometers using this principle are widely available in the visible range largely due to the availability of chemical reagents and inexpensive arrayed photodetectors primarily charge coupled device CCD arrays . A schematic of a traditional detector array based spectrometer is shown in with reference to . In the infrared spectral regions photodetector arrays are more costly and prone to thermal noise. To reduce cost or improve sensitivity several other techniques have found use in commercial instruments. These include Hadamard Transform Spectrometers Fourier Transform Spectrometers and monochromators. Both Hadamard and Fourier transform spectrometers require longer measurement times and computing power in exchange for improved sensitivity. The monochromators use mechanically scanned slits or gratings to measure a single frequency at a time measurement of a variable passband width would require changing slits and measurement of noncontiguous wavelength bands is not practical. Often analytical techniques can benefit from instantaneous or time resolved measurements making serially read detector arrays and the aforementioned time integrated techniques less relevant.

In a different type of spectrometer one can use a programmable mirror array to direct only the desired wavelengths onto a single detector. MEMS mirrors can allow rapid reconfiguration of the desired spectral passbands and the detector may be selected based on cost sensitivity response speed requirements etc. This layout would be especially useful in industrial consumer and military applications where an instrument is needed to make repeated measurements e.g. absorption at a specific wavelength of fixed spectral bands while allowing fast and re programmable configuration. Such a system is illustrated in . The benefit of this type of spectrometer is that only the wavelengths of interest are measured and since the number of detectors is reduced it can be a more specialized type. For example a fast sensitive detector could be used to provide time resolved fluorescence measurements.

One of the primary challenges for making such a system is a reconfigurable micromirror array capable of deflecting incident light onto or away from a detector. Accordingly what is needed in the art is an improved system and method for the control of a MEMS fabricated electrostatic array.

The present invention provides an improved electrostatic micro actuator array system comprising a plurality of electrostatic micro actuators each of the micro actuators further comprising at least one hold down electrode and at least two pull down electrodes positioned to actuate the micro actuator. A hold down signal line is then coupled to each of the hold down electrodes of each of the plurality of micro actuators and a plurality of first pull down signal lines coupled to one of the at least two pull down electrodes of each micro actuator and a plurality of second pull down signal lines coupled to another of the at least two pull down electrodes of each micro actuator the first pull down signal lines and the second pull down signal lines configured in a cross point matrix such that a unique pair of first pull down signal lines and second pull down signal lines is associated with each of the plurality of micro actuators.

In an additional embodiment the present invention provides a method for reducing the number of electrostatic drive lines required for the configuration of an array of electrostatic micro actuators. In one embodiment each of the micro actuators further includes at least one hold down electrode and at least two pull down electrodes positioned to actuate the micro actuator. The method of the present invention includes the steps of positioning a hold down signal line coupled to each of the hold down electrodes of each of the plurality of micro actuators positioning a plurality of first pull down signal lines coupled to one of the at least two pull down electrodes and a plurality of second pull down signal lines coupled to another of the at least two pull down electrodes the first pull down signal lines and the second pull down signal lines configured in a cross point matrix such that a unique pair of first pull down signal lines and second pull down signal lines is associated each of the plurality of micro actuators applying a voltage to the hold down signal line applying a voltage to the unique pair of first pull down signal lines and second pull down signals for one of the plurality of micro actuators such that the summation of the voltages on the hold down signal line and the at least two pull down signal lines is sufficient to actuate the micro actuator to a pulled down state and removing the voltage on the at least two pull down electrodes while maintaining the voltage on the hold down electrode to hold the micro actuator in the pulled down state.

In a particular embodiment of the present invention a reconfigurable microelectromechanical MEMS micromirror array system capable of deflecting incident light onto or away from a detector is provided. The micromirror array of the present invention includes a plurality of cantilever mirror elements and each cantilever mirror element includes an electrostatically actuated cantilever a mirror coupled to the electrostatically actuated cantilever through at least one hinge element a hold down electrode positioned underneath the cantilever and at least two pull down electrodes positioned underneath the cantilever. With this embodiment a reduced number of drive lines can be used to configure the mirrors of the array as previously described.

The present invention describes the design and control of MEMS fabricated electrostatic arrays. The MEMS structures can be fabricated using any number of surface micromachining processes of which one possibility is described. A multiplexing method is introduced in the design to enable positioning a large number of devices from a few electrical inputs which is necessary for practical applications when integrated control circuitry cannot be created on chip with the MEMS devices. This approach also enables separate optimization of the actuation and control sections and significantly reduces the number of drive signals required.

The present invention addresses the problem of realistically addressing large arrays of electrostatically actuated MEMS structures. The method reduces the need for high density wiring and custom application specific integrated circuitry ASICs to be integrated into the MEMS processing either through monolithic or flip chip assembly techniques by reducing the number of actuation signals required.

In a particular embodiment an application in an optical spectrometer instrument is illustrated. Toward reducing the cost size and complexity of the mirror arrays needed the design fabrication and control of a MEMS actuated mirror array that can be coupled with a conventional or MEMS fabricated spectrograph and one or two photodetectors for spectrometry detection applications is presented. The surface micromachined parts need not lie in a line so they could be efficiently matched with the output spectrum of spectrographs without flat field correction. In addition to the spectrometer applications the reconfigurable mirrors could find application in the telecommunications field. The operating principles of the MEMS mirror actuators could also be useful for other MEMS applications where a large number of parts need to be configured using only a few electrical drive lines.

The spectral resolution of a spectrometer is a function of many instrument parameters such as entrance aperture size grating size and period detector element size and optical aberrations. Although often not the limiting factor a smaller detector element can yield higher resolution. Typical arrayed detector elements are 14 50 m in width when coupled with a typical m compact spectrograph and 600 line mm grating resolution better than 2 nm is achievable at 1100 nm center wavelength. Similar performance is expected when replacing the conventional spectrometer s detector array with a programmable mirror array and a detector.

Several mechanisms are commonly used for MEMS actuators thermal electrostatic magnetic and piezoelectric. Thermal and magnetic actuators are unsuitable for low power operation unless the devices can be configured and held into a state with another means and piezoelectric actuators commonly use non standard fabrication materials e.g. lead not allowed in many MEMS or IC fabrication facilities. The present invention relies on electrostatic mechanisms for the MEMS actuators.

In a particular embodiment the mirror devices of the present invention were designed and fabricated using a silicon nitride structural layer MEMS process summarized herein. A silicon nitride passivation layer and Ti Au are deposited on a silicon wafer. The Ti Au is then patterned with a metal0 mask that defines lower layer electrical routing and high adhesion anchor locations for the latter structural devices. A sacrificial polymer is then deposited and patterned using photoresist and developer creating anchor points through the polymer film. A Au Ti metal1 film is then sputtered atop the wafer conformally filling into the anchor holes. The areas where the anchored metal1 is atop metal0 gold creates a strong Au Au interface. However since gold does not adhere well to silicon nitride structures anchored to the exposed passivation layer have poor adhesion. This allows the design of vertically constrained dimple points the full depth of the sacrificial layer without a separate masking step. A holemetal1 step is used to electrically isolate features eg. for making electrical switches routing etc. and also to create unmetallized submicron indentations into the sacrificial layer which can be used to prevent parts from sticking down when actuated. A layer of structural silicon nitride is grown by low temperature 250 C. Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition PECVD followed by a sputtered Ti Au metal2 film. The metal2 structure and metal1 films are then patterned and etched by a single mask leaving a stacked mechanical structure with electrically conductive metal on both surfaces of the structures. The exposed reflective metal2 Au on top of all structures is used for mirrors in this infrared spectrometer application and can also be used for a metal metal lid sealing area for final packaged devices. The sacrificial polymer is removed by isotropic Oplasma etching. In a particular embodiment the array utilizes the following non optimized layer thicknesses metal0 0.3 m sacrificial polymer layer 2.4 m with unmetalized indentations 0.6 m into the polymer and the metal1 0.3 m silicon nitride 1.4 m metal2 0.2 m structure stack 1.9 m.

The electrostatic forces are relatively weak decreasing with the square of the electrode distance. Therefore to increase the mirror deflection angle a levered cantilever mirror actuator is utilized. In such structures a lever is fabricated using an electrostatically actuated cantilever connected to a mirror through a flexible hinge structure. Small displacement of the cantilever tip up to the sacrificial material thickness can produce a larger out of plane angular mirror change caused by a fulcrum point designed between cantilever tip and mirror. The advantage of this method is that no sliding hinges are required and a relatively large out of plane mirror angle can be achieved with moderate drive voltages. For spectrometer applications only a few degrees angular movement of the mirrors is needed to spatially separate portions of the spectrum. For example an f 22 optical spectrograph would require only a 2.6 degree mirror movement to spatially separate the wanted and unwanted portions of the output spectra.

In accordance with a particular embodiment of the present invention the array includes a ground plane under the mirrors to prevent stray charges from causing spurious electrostatic forces which can pull the electrically grounded mirror downward. Additionally submicron indentations are included at several points under each cantilever to prevent metal metal contact welding and to create a low contact area to reduce the chance of stiction which can cause the parts to stay stuck down even after turning off the actuation voltages. In an additional embodiment vertically constrained dimple fulcrum points are included. This dimple was found to be beneficial since unwanted vertical displacement of the torsion hinge reduces the maximum angular magnification of the cantilever structure. A solid model of the micro mirror of the present invention showing various design features of a cantilever mirror element is accordance with an embodiment of the present invention are illustrated in in which an electrostatically actuated cantilever is coupled to a micro mirror through a flexible hinge and or a torsion hinge . In this particular embodiment a dimple fulcrum is implemented in the torsion hinge . The cantilever further includes a cantilever attachment .

In accordance with the present invention it is desirable to position a large number N of mirrors into one of two states i.e. rotated up or remaining flat so the incident spectrum can be selectively deflected onto a detector. In the simplest layout the designer could use one electrode per mirror to configure each. However if the number of mirrors is large for example 1024 and on chip drive electronics and routing are unavailable the task of connecting the individually addressed mirror array to external electronics becomes a wire bonding or ball grid connect challenge. Additionally since electrostatic devices typically operate at voltages above CMOS levels amplification circuitry is usually required adding to the impracticality of this solution. Thus it is desired to develop a method to reduce the number of connections and amplifiers required to configure the mirror array. The electrostatic drive principle in accordance with the present invention is summarized in the following text and a solution for reducing the number of driving lines based on the principles is presented.

Electrostatic MEMS actuators have been used in a wide variety of devices. They operate on the principles of electrostatics wherein a force is exerted on oppositely charged parallel plates. As illustrated in upon application of a voltage between the plates the less constrained moveable plate is pulled toward the other by an electrostatic force F 2 1 where is the permittivity of the air gap d is the plate spacing A is the electrode area and V the applied voltage. If the moveable electrode plate is attached to a fixed structure through a spring the direction of the restoring mechanical force F is opposite that of the electrostatic force and proportional to the displacement 2 where dis the initial plate position and k is the spring constant related to the Young s modulus of the material and the moment of inertia of the plate . The equilibrium position occurs when Fand Fare equal or when Fexceeds Fand the plates are pulled into contact with each other. It should be noted that Fis proportional to the inverse square of the electrode gap whereas Fis linearly proportional to the reduction in inter electrode gap from the initial position. This is illustrated in the hypothetical example shown in 100 100 m plates initially separated by a distance d 2 m with 30V applied k 50 N m . The moveable plate is pulled downward from d 2 m by the larger electrostatic force until the equilibrium gap d 1.7 m is reached because F F. The solution near 0.8 m is an unstable solution since a small increase in gap causes the larger mechanical force to continue increasing the plate separation until the stable solution near 1.7 m is reached. However if the initial inter electrode gap can be reduced below the second intersection point at d 0.8 m then Fexceeds F and the equilibrium point will be at gap d 0 i.e. the plates are in contact . This dual equilibrium point operation results in a hysteresis effect that can be used to the designer s advantage as discussed below.

If instead of using a single fixed electrode under each element of the electrostatic actuator array three electrodes are used under each actuator a reduction of the total number of driving lines can be realized. When a voltage is applied to an electrode each generates an electrostatic force on the moveable electrode as per Eq. 1 . If a sufficient voltage is applied the sum of the forces F can be large enough to pull down the moveable plate to the fixed electrode as illustrated in . The figure shows an example where the three electrode areas are 50 30 and 20 of the area of the 100 100 m plate used in and V 40V. If fewer than all three electrodes have voltage applied to them the pull in force is not exceeded and the upper plate will deflect slightly to a position over the lower electrode. If however 40V is applied to all three electrodes Fwill always exceed F causing the moveable plate to pull down to d 0. After being pulled down the plate can be held in place by keeping just a single electrode active due to the electrostatic hysteresis effect mentioned previously. We can designate one of the electrodes for example the one resulting in F as a hold down electrode and the other two electrodes as pull down electrodes.

With reference to the method for the reduction of driving lines in accordance with the present invention is described. In this embodiment the micro mirror includes a hold down electrode a first pull down electrode and a second pull down electrode as previously described. In a particular embodiment a single line is designated as running under an area of all actuators as the hold down signal . The pull down lines are then configured similar to a cross point matrix used in memory cells. One of L vertical bus lines is designed in an area under each of a group of L actuators and repeated in M groupings . Each one of M horizontal lines are designed in an area under one entire group of L actuators. There is then a unique pair of L and M lines that will designate each actuator. Thus to configure the actuator array with any specified set of actuators down the controller can maintain a voltage to the hold down signal then sequentially choose the combinations of electrodes L and M to pull down these actuators. The hold down electrode serves to keep the already programmed actuators in their pulled down state and can be turned off to allow resetting of the array for re programming. An additional ground signal line is coupled to the top of the cantilever.

The total number of electrodes needed to configure L M actuators is L M 2 L M pull down electrodes 1 hold down electrode 1 electrode connected to the top actuator . For the example shown in with L 7 and M 8 56 actuators attached to hinged mirrors can be configured with 17 lines compared to 57 required if one electrode was used per actuator. Only 66 actuators L M 32 would be needed to configure 1024 actuators which is a reasonable number of drive signals out of an ASIC or FPGA in a standard package. Though the current design uses only 2 pull down electrodes and 1 hold down electrode under each actuator additional savings could be realized by using more electrodes for example using 3 pull down electrodes per actuator just 26 electrodes would be required to configure 512 actuators . There is likely a practical limit to the number of pull down electrodes due to fabrication tolerances and minimum design rule spacing.

Several variants of the pop up mirror devices were fabricated and tested. The design variations included cantilever length 100 m or 150 m straight or Z shaped cantilever attachment structures and dimple fulcrum points with flexible hinges or torsion hinges. Each variation of the current design includes a flexible hinge to reduce the high drive voltage requirements seen in previous designs without the flexible hinges.

For testing the various design styles and verifying the electrostatic multiplexing concept a Wyko NT3300 white light interferometer profiler was used to provide non contact measurements of device topography. The standard instrument base has been modified to act as a probe station and includes a platen to hold several microprobes for applying voltages to the test parts. The system is currently limited to 4 probes at a time. Due to this limitation the electrostatic pull down and hold down testing was performed on individual mirrors instead of the full multiplexed array shown in .

In the experimental results the pop up mirror styles with 150 m cantilevers had a lower pull in voltage compared to 100 m cantilevers due to the larger electrostatic force generated by the former. However the maximum pull in mirror deflection angle was greatest 4.5 at 80V for the devices with 100 m cantilevers fulcrum dimples and straight cantilever attachments. The design with 150 m long cantilevers fulcrum dimples and straight cantilever attachments achieved only a 3.3 mirror deflection at 65V . The deflection angle reduction is apparently due to slightly more bowing up of the less rigid longer cantilever near the fulcrum point. The style with 150 m long cantilevers fulcrum dimples and Z shaped cantilever attachments produced a 3 mirror deflection at 50V. The largest deflection angle for the styles with only a torsion bar no fulcrum dimple was only 1.3 and was limited by undesirable vertical deflection of the torsion bar.

The electrostatic multiplexing was verified by applying voltage to the three bottom electrodes combined or independently. Since the hold down electrode is toward the end of the cantilever see and has the largest moment arm for styles without fulcrum dimple hinges it had the greatest effect. For the 150 m long cantilever style with Z shaped cantilever attachments with torsion and flexible hinges the pull in voltage for the hold down electrode was 65V. Because of the presence of the 0.6 m deep indentations under the cantilever the cantilever electrode gap cannot be less than 0.6 m and there is a finite voltage 50V where the hold down force no longer keeps the pulled down cantilever down. Thus operating at 60V within this usable hysteresis range 50 65V the pull down electrodes were then applied. As the Pull down1 electrode was applied it was noted the pull in voltage was 20V. Releasing the mirror then operating slightly below pull in at V 60V V 19V the cantilever bowed down but did not pull in. When 60V was applied to the Pull down2 electrode the cantilever snapped down. While keeping the hold down electrode at 60V both pull down electrodes could be set to 0V and the cantilever maintained its pulled down state. Turning the hold down voltage below 50V released the cantilever to allow re programming of its state. These results above are summarized in Table I and show the multiplexing concept as viable.

Time. Voltage at Voltage at Voltage at Top Result hold down Pull down1 Pull down2 electrode electrode electrode electrode

Experimental results show that the mirror arrays with dimpled fulcrum points resulted in larger angular movement of the pop up mirrors than versions with a torsion bar fulcrum point. The flexible hinge reduced the pull in voltage from previous fabricated devices. The addition of Z shaped cantilever attachment points was beneficial for reducing actuation voltage. Further modification to include an even more compliant attachment mechanism could likely further reduce the actuation voltage. Because bowing of the cantilever near the fulcrum point was noted an optimized design of flexible hinge and fulcrum dimple could provide a larger angular movement if needed. Reducing the depth of the indentation features under the cantilever would also increase the maximum angular movement of the mirror since the smaller cantilever electrode gap would produce a larger force it would additionally reduce the voltage required to maintain the hold down state. This change could be easily made in the fabrication process by reducing the etch time at the indentation formation step. For spectrometer applications the current angular movements are likely acceptable. For example an f 22 optical spectrograph would require only a 2.6 degree mirror movement to spatially separate the wanted and unwanted portions of the output spectra. If two optical spectral bands need to be simultaneously measured the mirror arrays can be abutted back to back with each array redirecting the light of interest onto a separate detector.

The multiplexing concept where electro mechanical hysteresis is used and several electrodes contribute electrostatic force can be used to actuate and hold down arrays of electrostatic actuators. Devices with multiplexing electrode interconnection have been designed and a significant reduction in the number of actuation lines has been realized compared to the 1 electrode per mirror configuration. Because the moment arm of the Pull down2 electrode is small compared to the hold down and other pull down electrodes a modified design incorporating both pull down electrodes under the cantilever from attachment point to hold down electrode would be beneficial to equalize their electromechanical contribution.

It is anticipated the switching speed of these devices would be approximately the same allowing a complete spectrometer array reconfiguration time of less than 1 second.

A MEMS mirror array for use in optical spectrometers has been presented. A scheme for reducing the number of drive electrodes to a practical number has been devised and tested. The scheme includes a hold down electrode to maintain the programmed state and two or more pull down electrodes to additively achieve pull in of the electrostatic cantilever. If only two of the three electrodes are applied pull in is not achieved. The implemented control methods are useful for the stated application and potentially for others where configuration of arrays of electrostatic parts is required.

In a particular embodiment the devices were fabricated using a silicon nitride surface micromachining process resulting in reflective gold mirror surfaces. Low adhesion Au to silicon nitride dimples were used in the designs to prevent vertical deflection of the fulcrum point of the cantilever mirror levered structure. This was shown to produce a larger mirror movement compared to the designs using a more conventional torsion bar fulcrum point.

Additional reduction of the drive voltage and increased mirror scan angle could be achieved through the use of thinner structural silicon nitride more compliant cantilever beam attachment features or reduced feature dimensions. Use of alternate materials for example aluminum could allow the mirror array designs to be used in visible optical spectrometer applications as well.

The disclosure of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

