---

title: Group III nitride field effect transistors (FETS) capable of withstanding high temperature reverse bias test conditions
abstract: Group III Nitride based field effect transistor (FETs) are provided having a power degradation of less than about 3.0 dB when operated at a drain-to-source voltage (V) of about from about 28 to about 70 volts, a gate to source voltage (V) of from about −3.3 to about −14 volts and a normal operating temperature for at least about 10 hours.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08803198&OS=08803198&RS=08803198
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08803198
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120530
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 270 063 filed Nov. 13 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 080 905 filed Mar. 15 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 465 967 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

The present invention was developed with Government support under contract numbers N00014 02 C 0306 and N00014 02 C 0321 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and more particularly to Group III Nitride field effect transistors FETs .

Materials such as silicon Si and gallium arsenide GaAs have found wide application in semiconductor devices for radio frequency RF applications. However these more familiar semiconductor materials may not be well suited for higher power because of their relatively small bandgaps e.g. 1.12 eV for Si and 1.42 for GaAs at room temperature and or relatively small breakdown voltages.

In light of the difficulties presented by Si and GaAs interest in high power and or high frequency applications and devices has turned to wide bandgap semiconductor materials such as silicon carbide 2.996 eV for alpha SiC at room temperature and the Group III nitrides e.g. 3.36 eV for GaN at room temperature . These materials typically have higher electric field breakdown strengths than gallium arsenide GaN and GaN typically has better electron transport properties than silicon.

A device of particular interest for high power and or high frequency applications is the High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT which in certain cases is also known as a modulation doped field effect transistor MODFET . These devices may offer operational advantages under a number of circumstances because a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG is formed at the heterojunction of two semiconductor materials with different bandgap energies and where the smaller bandgap material has a higher electron affinity. The 2DEG is an accumulation layer in the undoped unintentionally doped smaller bandgap material and can contain a very high sheet electron concentration in excess of for example 10carriers cm. Unlike electrons in conventional bulk doped devices electrons in 2DEG may have higher mobilities due to reduced ion impurity scattering.

This combination of high carrier concentration and high carrier mobility can give the HEMT a very large transconductance and may provide a strong performance advantage over metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs for high frequency applications.

High electron mobility transistors fabricated in the gallium nitride aluminum gallium nitride GaN AlGaN material system have the potential to generate large amounts of RF power because of the combination of material characteristics that includes the aforementioned high breakdown fields their wide bandgaps large conduction band offset and or high saturated electron drift velocity. A major portion of the electrons in the 2DEG is attributed to polarization in the AlGaN.

HEMTs in the GaN AlGaN system have already been demonstrated. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 987 and 5 296 395 describe AlGaN GaN HEMT structures and methods of manufacture. U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 to Sheppard et al. which is commonly assigned and is incorporated herein by reference describes a HEMT device having a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate an aluminum nitride buffer layer on the substrate an insulating gallium nitride layer on the buffer layer an aluminum gallium nitride barrier layer on the gallium nitride layer and a passivation layer on the aluminum gallium nitride active structure.

It is standard practice to screen RF power devices for example HEMTs with high temperature reverse bias HTRB tests as a part of the qualification procedures.

The Vused during HTRB tests may be at least as negative as 2 2 V or 2 2 V whichever is more negative where Vis the quiescent Vfor the target application and Vis the threshold voltage of the device. Both VGand Vare typically negative. In this case both VGand Vare referenced to the maximum possible gate voltage which is typically from about 1.0 to about 3.0 Volts. The Vused during HTRB may be about 2 V where Vis the quiescent Vfor the target application. In particular the power device may be subjected to the maximum reverse bias voltage that the device may instantaneously reach in a real application with the temperature raised to normal operating temperature for example 140 C. Typically tests are run for approximately 1000 hours.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide Group III Nitride based field effect transistor FETs having a power degradation of less than about 3.0 dB when operated at a drain to source voltage V of about 56 volts a gate to source voltage V of from about 8 to about 14 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for greater than about 10 hours.

In further embodiments of the present invention the FETs may have a power degradation of not greater than about 0.44 dB when operated at a Vof about 56 volts a Vof about 8 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for about 20 hours. The FETs may include a GaN channel layer having a thickness of about 2.0 m. The FET may be a high electron mobility transistor HEMT . The HEMT may further include an AlN layer on the GaN channel layer an AlGaN layer on the AlN layer a T gate contact on the AlGaN layer an insulating layer on a surface of the HEMT and

source and drain contacts on the AlGaN layer. The FET may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm and operate at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the FETs may have a power degradation not greater than about 1.3 dB when operated at a Vof about 56 volts a Vof about 8 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for about 20 hours. The FET may include a GaN channel layer having a thickness of from about 2.0 m to about 8.0 m and all but about 1.0 m of a surface of the GaN channel layer may be doped with Fe to a concentration of from about 2 10cmto about 2 10cm. The FET may be a HEMT and the HEMT may include an AlN layer on the GaN channel layer an AlGaN layer on the AlN layer a T gate contact on the AlGaN layer an insulating layer on a surface of the HEMT and source and drain contacts on the AlGaN layer. The may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm operating at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz.

In some embodiments of the present invention the FETs may have a power degradation of not greater than about 1.0 dB when operated at a Vof about 56 volts a Vof about 8 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for about 10 hours.

The FET may include a passivation layer on a surface of the FET and the passivation layer may include silicon nitride SiN . The FET may be a HEMT. The HEMT may include a GaN channel layer an AlN layer on the GaN channel layer an AlGaN layer on the AlN layer a T gate contact on the AlGaN layer and source and drain contacts on the AlGaN layer wherein the passivation layer is provided on the T gate contact the AlGaN layer and the source and drain contacts. The FET may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm and operate at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz.

In further embodiments of the present invention the FET may have a power degradation of not greater than about 0.40 dB when operated at a Vof about 56 volts a Vof from about 8 volts to about 14 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for from about 10 to about 62 hours. The FET may include a GaN channel layer having a thickness of about 6.0 m and all but about 1.0 m of a surface of the GaN channel layer may be doped with Fe to a concentration of from about 2 10cmto about 2 10cm. The FET may be a HEMT. The HEMT may include an AlN layer on the GaN channel layer an AlGaN layer on the AlN layer a T gate contact on the AlGaN layer an insulating layer on a surface of the HEMT and source and drain contacts on the AlGaN layer. The FET may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm and operate at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the FET may have a power degradation not greater than about 0.25 dB when operated at a Vof about 56 volts a Vof about 8 volts to and a temperature of about 140 C. for about 10 hours. The FET may include a GaN channel layer having a thickness of about 6.0 m and an AlGaN layer on the GaN channel layer having from about 15 to about 30 percent Al and a thickness of from about 15 to about 40 nm. The FET may be a HEMT. The HEMT may include an AlN layer between the GaN channel layer and the AlGaN a T gate contact on the AlGaN layer an insulating layer on a surface of the HEMT and source and drain contacts on the AlGaN layer. The FET may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm and operate at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz.

In some embodiments of the present invention the FET may have a power degradation not greater than about 0.45 dB when operated at a Vof from about 28 to about 70 volts a Vof about 3.3 to about 14 and a temperature of about 140 C. for about 6 to about 100 hours. The FET may include a GaN channel layer having a thickness of about 6.0 m and all but about 1.0 m of a surface of the GaN channel layer may be doped with Fe to a concentration of from about 2 10cmto about 2 10cm. The FET may be a HEMT. The HEMT may include an AlN layer on the GaN channel layer an AlGaN layer on the AlN layer a T gate contact on the AlGaN layer an insulating layer on a surface of the HEMT and source and drain contacts on the AlGaN layer. The FET may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm and operate at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide Group III Nitride based field effect transistors FETs capable of withstanding high temperature reverse bias test conditions of a drain to source voltage V of about 56 volts a gate to source voltage V of from about 8 to about 14 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for at least about 10 hours.

mobility transistors HEMTs having a power degradation of less than about 3.0 dB and a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm when operated at a drain to source voltage V of about 56 volts a gate to source voltage V of from about 8 to about 14 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for at least about 10 hours.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the specification.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an etched region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Embodiments of the present invention may be particularly well suited for use in nitride based devices such as Group III nitride based HEMTs. As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconducting compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . The term also refers to ternary and quaternary compounds such as AlGaN and AlInGaN. As is well understood by those in this art the Group III elements can combine with nitrogen to form binary e.g. GaN ternary e.g. AlGaN AlInN and quaternary e.g. AlInGaN compounds. These compounds all have empirical formulas in which one mole of nitrogen is combined with a total of one mole of the Group III elements. Accordingly formulas such as AlGaN where 0 x 1 are often used to describe them.

While embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to particular structures other structures and or techniques for fabricating GaN based HEMTs could also be utilized in some embodiments of the present invention. Such structures and or techniques may include those described for example in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0066908A1 filed Jul. 12 2001 and published Jun. 6 2002 for ALUMINUM GALLIUM NITRIDE GALLIUM NITRIDE HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTORS HAVING A GATE CONTACT ON A GALLIUM NITRIDE BASED CAP SEGMENT AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 882 to Smorchkova et al. entitled GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 617 843 filed Jul. 11 2003 for NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATION THEREOF USING NON ETCHED CONTACT RECESSES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 772 882 filed Feb. 5 2004 for NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS HAVING CHARGE TRANSFER INDUCED ENERGY BARRIERS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING THE SAME U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 897 726 filed Jul. 23 2004 entitled METHODS OF FABRICATING NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS WITH A CAP LAYER AND A RECESSED GATE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 617 filed May 20 2004 entitled METHODS OF FABRICATING NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS HAVING REGROWN OHMIC CONTACT REGIONS AND NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS HAVING REGROWN OHMIC CONTACT REGIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 589 filed May 20 2004 and entitled SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES HAVING A HYBRID CHANNEL LAYER CURRENT APERTURE TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0020092 filed Jul. 23 2002 and published Jan. 30 2003 for INSULATING GATE ALGAN GAN HEMT and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 249 filed Nov. 23 2004 and entitled CAP LAYERS AND OR PASSIVATION LAYERS FOR NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS TRANSISTOR STRUCTURES AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if described in their entirety.

As discussed in the background of the present invention it is standard practice to screen RF power devices with high temperature reverse bias HRTB tests as part of qualification procedure. As used herein capable of withstanding refers to withstanding the application of test conditions without destruction of the device i.e. without irreversible damage that prevents operation of the device. Group III nitride devices may be more susceptible to degradation under the HRTB conditions than many other devices. Thus creating devices that can withstand such conditions may be difficult. Accordingly Group III nitride devices that can withstand the HRTB conditions may be an obstacle in developing commercial Group III Nitride Field Effect Transistor FET products for example high electron mobility transistors HEMTs .

HRTB tests were run on several different wafer lots of Group III Nitride FETs HEMTs . For a HEMT having a pinch off voltage of from about 3.0 to about 4.0 volts a dc drain bias of about 28.0 volts and a corresponding maximum drain swing to as much as 56 volts was predicted. The gate voltage may swing from about 2.0 to about 3.V to from about 8 to about 10 volts. Thus tests were performed using a drain to source voltage V of 56 volts a gate to source voltage V of 8 or 14 volts at a normal operating temperature of 140 C. for various lengths of time. Earlier tests were run with a Vgs of 14 volts and more recent tests were run with a Vof 8 volts. It will be understood that for an ideal device these tests could be run on the device for an infinite amount of time and the device would not experience any power degradation. For qualification procedures the tests are typically run for about 1000 hours however because the tests were performed to determine relative differences between a large number of wafers the tests were run for a much shorter period of time.

As a preliminary note the tests were run at both Cree s North Carolina and California facilities. Although the stresses at each facility are substantially

equivalent the results obtained by the Cree s California facility appear to be better. For example where the California team may obtain a power degradation of about 0.4 dB the North Carolina team may obtain a power degradation of from about 0.8 to about 0.9 dB for devices wafers in the same lot. As discussed above tests using HTRB conditions for six different wafer lots were performed. The structure discussed below with respect to is a general structure of the devices tests. Specific device specifications for each of the test runs will be discussed in detail below.

As will be discussed below with respect to devices according to some embodiments of the present invention provide Group III Nitride based FETs capable of withstanding high temperature reverse bias HTRB test conditions of a drain to source voltage V of about 56 volts a gate to source voltage Vof from about 8 to about 14 volts and a temperature of about 140 C. for at least about 10 hours. Furthermore FETs according to some embodiments of the present invention not only withstand HTRB stress conditions the devices discussed herein have power degradations of less than about 3.0 dB as will be discussed further below.

Exemplary devices according to some embodiments of the present invention are schematically illustrated in . However embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular exemplary embodiments described herein but may include any suitable structure that provides transistor characteristics as described herein.

Referring now to a substrate is provided on which nitride based devices may be formed. In particular embodiments of the present invention the substrate may be a semi insulating silicon carbide SiC substrate that may be for example 4H polytype of silicon carbide. Other silicon carbide candidate polytypes include the 3C 6H and 15R polytypes. The term semi insulating is used descriptively rather than in an absolute sense. In particular embodiments of the present invention the silicon carbide bulk crystal has a resistivity equal to or higher than about 1 10 cm at room temperature.

Optional buffer nucleation and or transition layers not shown may be provided on the substrate . For example an AlN buffer layer may be provided to provide an appropriate crystal structure transition between the silicon carbide substrate and the remainder of the device. Additionally strain balancing transition layer s may also be provided as described for example in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0102482A1 filed Jul. 19 2002 and published Jun. 5 2003 and entitled STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS or U.S. Pat. No. 6 841 001 entitled STRAIN COMPENSATED SEMICONDUCTOR STRUCTURES AND METHODS OF FABRICATING STRAIN COMPENSATED SEMICONDUCTOR STRUCTURES the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

Appropriate SiC substrates are manufactured by for example Cree Inc. of Durham N.C. the assignee of the present invention and methods for producing are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 34 861 4 946 547 5 200 022 and 6 218 680 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Similarly techniques for epitaxial growth of Group III nitrides have been described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 210 051 5 393 993 5 523 589 and 5 592 501 the contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Although silicon carbide may be used as a substrate material embodiments of the present invention may utilize any suitable substrate such as sapphire aluminum nitride aluminum gallium nitride gallium nitride silicon GaAs LGO ZnO LAO InP and the like. In some embodiments an appropriate buffer layer also may be formed.

Referring again to a channel layer is provided on the substrate . The channel layer may be deposited on the substrate using buffer layers transition layers and or nucleation layers as described above. The channel layer may be under compressive strain. Furthermore the channel layer and or buffer nucleation and or transition layers may be deposited by MOCVD or by other techniques known to those of skill in the art such as MBE or HVPE. In some embodiments of the present invention the GaN buffer can be Fe doped in a manner similar to that described in Heileman et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. vol. 81 pp. 439 441 July 2002 or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 752 970 filed Jan. 7 2004 entitled CO DOPING FOR FERMI LEVEL CONTROL IN SEMI INSULATING GROUP III NITRIDES the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entirety. In devices having Fe doped GaN buffers the GaN buffer may be partially Fe doped provided that the Fe concentration is very low or less than about 1 10cm in the channel region or about 0.01 m of the top of the GaN buffer.

The channel layer is a Group III nitride and in particular GaN. The channel layer may be undoped unintentionally doped and may be grown to a thickness of from about 0.01 to about 20.0 m depending on the particular embodiment of the present invention. In particular embodiments of the present invention the channel layer is GaN and has a thickness from about 2.0 to about 8.0 m as will be discussed further below with respect to the specific test runs.

A barrier layer is provided on the channel layer . The channel layer may have a bandgap that is less than the bandgap of the barrier layer and the channel layer may also have a larger electron affinity than the barrier layer. The barrier layer may be deposited on the channel layer . In certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is provided by an AlN layer and an AlGaN layer . The AlN layer may have a thickness of from about 0.2 to about 2.0 nm. The AlGaN layer may have a thickness of from about 10 to about 40 nm and an Al composition of from about 15 to about 30 percent. In some embodiments of the present invention the AlGaN layer may have a thickness of from about 20 to about 30 nm and an Al composition of from about 20 to about 35 percent. Examples of layers according to certain embodiments of the present invention are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 882 to Smorchkova et al. entitled GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. In particular embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is thick enough and has a high enough Al composition and doping to induce a significant carrier concentration at the interface between the channel layer and the barrier layer through polarization effects. In particular embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer comprises an AlN layer having a thickness of about 0.4 to about 0.8 nm and an AlGaN layer having greater than 20 percent Al and a thickness of about 20 to about 30 nm. The percentage of Al in the AlGaN layer is typically less than about 25 percent.

As further illustrated in the HEMT includes a source contact a drain contact and a gate contact on the AlGaN layer . The source and drain contacts and can be made of different materials including but not limited to alloys of titanium aluminum gold or nickel. The gate contact is a T gate as illustrated in and may be fabricated using conventional fabrication techniques. Suitable gate materials may depend on the composition of the AlGaN layer however in certain embodiments conventional materials capable of making a Schottky contact to a nitride based semiconductor material may be used such as Ni Pt NiSi Cu Pd Cr W and or WSiN. Although not illustrated in some embodiments of the present invention a passivation layer may be blanket deposited on the structure of . The passivation layer may be silicon nitride SiN . References to SiN SiON SiO MgN and the like refer to stoichiometric and or non stoichiometric materials. The T gate may be defined by a bi layer e beam lithography process and has a footprint of approximately 0.18 m.

In the distance from the gate contact to the source contact is indicated as L. In some embodiments of the present invention Lmay be about 0.7 m. The distance from the gate contact to the drain contact is indicated as LIn some embodiments of the present invention Lmay be about 2.0 m. The length of the T portion of the gate contact is indicated as L. In some embodiments of the present invention Lmay be about 0.7 m. The length of the base of the gate contact is indicated as L. In some embodiments of the present invention Lmay be about 0.2 m. The distance the wings of the T extend out from the base of the gate contact is indicated as L. In some embodiments of the present invention the Lmay be about 0.25 m. The dimension of the gate contact extending into and out of the page in is referred to herein as the gate width W. In some embodiments of the present invention the Wmay be about 250 m. A total width of the device may be 30.0 mm however this may depend on power level and frequency. Multiple cells may be placed in parallel to increase the total width of the device. The total width may also be referred to as the periphery of the combined device.

HEMTs according to some embodiments of the present invention include multiple gate fingers each having a width of about 0.25 mm. Embodiments of the present invention discussed herein include 2 gate fingers. The device has a total width of about 0.5 mm. is a cross section illustrating multiple unit cells of transistors according to some embodiments of the present invention. Like numbers in refer to like elements of and therefore details of these elements will not be discussed further herein. It will be understood that although the drains are separate in the drains may be combined into a single rail without departing from the scope of the present invention. The devices discussed herein may have a power density of greater than about 3.0 W mm when operating at a frequency of from about 3.5 to about 4.0 GHz

Unless indicated otherwise the devices discussed below are devices having the above described structure. Performance of exemplary devices as described herein will now be described. However embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to these particular devices but includes other devices capable of providing the performance characteristics described herein. Furthermore while various theories of operation are described herein embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to a particular theory of operation.

The results obtained for six test runs will now be discussed in detail. A first series of test runs produced a power degradation ranging from about 0.07 to about 0.44 dB after stressed at high temperature reverse bias HTRB conditions. The devices tested did not contain Fe doping or SiN layers discussed above with respect to according to some embodiments of the present invention. The HTRB stress conditions that produced the stated power degradation were as follows V 56 volts V 8 volts T 140 C. and Time 20 hours. It will be understood that these values are approximate values and therefore embodiments of the present invention should not be limited to these exact values. Furthermore reverse gate to drain leakage current decreased from about 14 to 20 microamps to just a few microamps in all cases.

A second series of test runs produced a power degradation ranging from about 0.06 to about 1.30 dB after stressed at high temperature reverse bias HTRB conditions. The devices tested included Fe doping below the channel as discussed above with respect to . Furthermore the GaN buffer layers had thicknesses of from about 2.0 to about 8 m. The HTRB stress conditions that produced the stated power degradation were as follows V 56 volts V 8 volts T 140 C. and Time 20 hours. Although there was no strong correlation in the final data between buffer thickness and reliability the best results were achieved with the thickest buffer. Thick buffers may result in defects in the surface of the device. Furthermore gate to drain reverse leakage current I decreased for some wafers and increased for others but decreased for the wafer producing the best result.

A third series of test runs produced a power degradation ranging from less than about 0.25 to about 1.0 dB after stressed at high temperature reverse bias HTRB conditions. The devices tested included SiN layers approximately 1 monolayer as discussed above with respect to . The HTRB stress conditions that produced the stated power degradation were as follows V 56 volts V 8 volts T 140 C. and Time 10 hours. The devices in embodiments of the present invention without SiN layers degraded about 1.0 dB however several devices in embodiments of the present invention with SiN layers degraded less than about 0.25 dB under more stringent conditions and exhibited low and decreasing leakage currents.

A fourth series of test runs produced a power degradation ranging from about 0.1 to 0.4 dB after stressed at high temperature reverse bias HTRB conditions. These devices had GaN buffers having a thickness of about 6 m and varying amounts Fe doping. The Fe doping concentration ranged from about 2 10cmto about 2 10cm. The wafer with the most doping closest to the channel produced a power degradation of from about 1.0 to about 2.0 dB. The HTRB stress conditions that produced the stated power degradation were as follows V 56 volts V 8 volts T 140 C. and Time 10 hours. Furthermore reverse leakage currents for the most part started and remained in the 20 to 100 microamps range. One of the wafers exhibited a power degradation of about 0.4 dB in a longer test about 62 hours. Furthermore another wafer exhibited a power degradation of from about 0.1 dB to 0.5 dB when the Vwas 14 instead of 8 volts.

A fifth series of test runs produced a power degradation ranging from about 0.3 to about 1 dB after stressed at high temperature reverse bias HTRB conditions. The devices had GaN buffers having a thickness of about 6 m and varying amounts of aluminum in the AlGaN layer. The percentage of aluminum varied from about 20 to about 25 percent. The variation of aluminum did not appear to significantly impact the test results. The HTRB stress conditions that produced the stated power degradation were as follows V 56 volts V 8 volts T 140 C. and Time 10 hours. Modest increases in reverse leakage current were observed for the high mole fraction wafers which also had higher charge densities higher current levels more power output and presumably higher internal fields. It should be noted that power degradation measured by Cree California varied from about 0.3 to about 0.6 dB and reverse leakage current generally increased from 0.1 mA mm to between 0.5 and 1.0 mA mm. Power degradation measured by Cree North Carolina varied from about 0.7 to 1.0 dB possibly due to the different details of the RF testing before and after stressing.

Finally a sixth series of test runs produced a power degradation ranging from about 0.0 to about 0.45 dB after stressed at high temperature reverse bias HTRB conditions. The devices tested in this run had GaN buffers having a thickness of about 6 m and varying amounts iron doping. The HTRB conditions that produced the stated power degradation were as follows V 28 to about 70 volts V 3.3 to about 14 volts T 140 C. and Time less than about 100 hours. The results of these test runs are illustrated in the graphs of . is a plot illustrating Output Power POUT Power Added Efficiency PAE and Gain before and after performing tests according to some embodiments of the present invention when Vis equal to 28V. is a plot illustrating Output Power POUT Power Added Efficiency PAE and Gain before and after performing tests according to further embodiments of the present invention when Vis equal to 48V.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to particular HEMT structures the present invention should not be construed as limited to such structures. For example additional layers may be included in the HEMT device while still benefiting from the teachings of the present invention. Such additional layers may include GaN cap layers as for example described in Yu et al. Schottky barrier engineering in III V nitrides via the piezoelectric effect Applied Physics Letters Vol. 73 No. 13 1998 or in U.S. Pat. No. 6 584 333 filed Jul. 12 2001 for ALUMINUM GALLIUM NITRIDE GALLIUM NITRIDE HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTORS HAVING A GATE CONTACT ON A GALLIUM NITRIDE BASED CAP SEGMENT AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms have been employed they have been used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

