---

title: Microplasma jet devices, arrays, medical devices and methods
abstract: Preferred embodiments of the present invention include microplasma jet devices and arrays in various materials, and low temperature microplasma jet devices and arrays. These include preferred embodiment single microplasma jet devices and arrays of devices formed in monolithic polymer blocks with elongated microcavities. The arrays can be densely packed, for example having 100 jets in an area of a few square centimeters. Additional embodiments include metal/metal oxide microplasma jet devices that have micronozzles defined in the metal oxide itself. Methods of fabrication of microplasma jet devices are also provided by the invention, and the methods have been demonstrated as being capable of producing tailored micronozzle contours that are unitary with the material insulating electrodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08957572&OS=08957572&RS=08957572
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08957572
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120625
---
The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 501 053 which was filed Jun. 24 2011.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA9550 07 1 0003 awarded by the United States Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Fields of the invention include microplasma devices and arrays particularly devices and arrays based upon microcavity plasma devices but configured to produce an output jet of plasma. Preferred devices produce low temperature plasma and preferred arrays are configured to produce multiple output jets of plasma. Preferred applications of the invention include medical treatment devices such as an array configured for the treatment of human tissue skin muscle etc. and plasma processing of surfaces.

Microcavity plasma devices and arrays have been developed and advanced by researchers at the University of Illinois including inventors of this application. Devices and arrays have been fabricated in different materials such as ceramics and semiconductors. Arrays or microcavity devices have also been fabricated in thin metal and metal oxide sheets. Advantageously microcavity plasma devices confine plasma in cavities having microscopic dimensions and require no ballast reflector or heavy metal housing. Microcavities in such devices can have different cross sectional shapes but generally confine plasma in a cavity having a characteristic dimension in the range of about 5 m 500 m.

Such previous plasma jet technologies have a number of limitations. First tubing is often used with diameters that have been large for a single jet typically on the order of millimeters mm . Producing a jet in tubing of such a diameter requires very high voltages many kV and a high gas flow typically several standard liters per minute SLM . Another difficulty arises if one wishes to make a plasma source that covers an area as large as possible. Bundling a number of tubes together each of which is itself bulky and heavy is difficult and is inconvenient for many applications. For this reason typical multiple jet assemblies developed in the past are not practical.

Burton et al. Initial Development of the Microcavity Discharge Thruster 31September 20 24 2009 Chadenedes et al. Advances in Microcavity Discharge Thruster Technology American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics 2010 disclose microjet devices formed in two thin foil layers of Al AlO. The layers defined a nozzle in a bowl shape that varied from linear to parabolic in cross sectional geometry. Chadenedes et al. discloses in a microjet device formed from two metal metal oxide electrodes. The electrodes in form an aligned cylindrical surface the surfaces are flush and the micronozzle in is a separate structure from the metal metal oxide electrodes. The ability to fabricate such a separate nozzle is not described and the reliability and manufacturability of such a nozzle is not clear. of Burton et al. describe a bell shaped nozzle microjet devices formed in the metal and metal oxide electrodes. The fabrication of a micronozzle is described as a chemical etching after the metal and metal oxide foils are combined. The papers as indicated in Burton et. al are directed to simulations and proof of concept efforts to produce a thruster for spacecraft. In of Burton et al a boron nitride shroud was used at the nozzle and a polyimide coating was used with two electrodes that form an abrupt change in size with a smaller microcavity having a smaller cylindrical microcavity. of Burton et al shows the bowl bell shaped nozzle. The supersonic nozzle of or is shown as not being unitary with either of the electrodes. Moderate efficiencies are reported on page 7 for providing thrust by Burton et al. which proposes improvements might be achieved by by coupling to a micronozzle for which performance has been characterized and the efficiency of the thruster can be further increased with improvements to the manufacturing process. No solution is proposed in Burton for coupling a nozzle with optimal contours that are discussed on page 7 as being desirable.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention include microplasma jet devices and arrays in various materials and low temperature microplasma jet devices and arrays. These include preferred embodiment single microplasma jet devices and arrays of devices formed in monolithic polymer blocks with elongated microcavities. The arrays can be densely packed for example having 100 jets in an area of a few square centimeters. Additional embodiments include metal metal oxide microplasma jet devices that have micronozzles defined in the metal oxide itself. Methods of fabrication of microplasma jet devices are also provided by the invention and the methods have been demonstrated as being capable of producing tailored micronozzle contours that are unitary with the material insulating electrodes.

This invention provides for one or an array of low temperature microplasma jet devices. Low temperature plasma is emitted in a jet from a micro nozzle that provides the exit from a microcavity. The low temperature plasma jet is suitable for treating human or animal tissue. Other applications include disinfecting or producing a thin film on a temperature sensitive surface. Preferred embodiment devices are formed in metal and metal oxide or within a polymer. In the polymer an elongated microcavity provides part of the necessary conditions for producing a controlled plasma jet and in metal and metal oxide embodiments a smooth contoured micronozzle is defined as a unitary part of the metal that encapsulates electrodes that drive microplasma jet device or devices. Shaped microcavities provide a unitary nozzle exit for the focused ejection of microplasma from a flowing gaseous stream directed through the microcavities while electrodes stimulate and maintain plasma generation. A gas supply provides a flow of one or more feedstock gases or vapors through the microcavities of a plasma device and a microplasma jet is generated that extends for a substantial distance out of the micronozzle up to several centimeters in room air.

Nozzles can be fabricated by methods of the invention to have precisely controlled surfaces that allow for the plasma effluent to have particular properties with regard to temperature and velocity. A power supply provides power to the electrodes. Flexible arrays can be used to form the basis for medical devices that can be shaped in sleeves and collars for example to uniformly treat areas of tissue. Other shapes can be formed including for example tubes cylinders and balls that emit microplasma jets from their outer portions. The control of cavity shape and use of multiple array layers in preferred fabrication methods also permits that formation of arrays that emit in patterns such as divergent or convergent patterns. Arrays can be formed to expel microplasma jets along a wide variety of predetermined paths.

The invention also provides for microplasma jet arrays that are formed in a monolithic block of polymer. Electrodes are encapsulated in the monolithic block of polymer and the polymer is preferably selected to be suitable for contact with human skin which permits the microplasma jet arrays to be used for the treatment of human tissue. Medical applications include the disinfection of tissue and wounds including during surgery and the promotion of wound and tissue healing. Arrays are also used for example for the surface treatment of various inanimate materials including the curing of polymer films and the deposition of thin films on temperature sensitive surfaces.

Embodiments of the invention provide practical arrays for important applications that were not contemplated or ill served by prior devices discussed in the background. Microplasma jets of the invention are realized from microcavity plasma devices that expel plasma well outside of the microcavity in which the plasma is generated and can provide low temperature plasma. For example plasma might be delivered to a surface well removed from the cavity. Some applications would benefit from remote processing that can be provided by devices and arrays of the invention where plasma is extracted and expelled into surrounding environments including gaseous and liquid environments. Certain medical and surface processing applications can benefit from such efficient microplasma jet devices. Medical and surface processing applications can use constituents of a microplasma jet namely ions electrons radicals and photons to favorably affect a surface.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic representations that will be understood by artisans in view of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale. Artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention from the description of the preferred embodiments.

The electrodes can be for example foils rods wires and deposited metal layers. The polymer is formed from thermally curable or UV curable polymers. The diameters of the microcavities can be from 1 m to about 5 mm and the elongated microcavities can be very long in polymer being unlimited in practical terms relative to the diameter of the microcavities . The electrodes are buried within and encapsulated by the polymer block to isolate them from the elongated microcavities and plasma generated therein and are connected to the power supply delivering the time varying voltage V.

Both arrays of FIGS. A B and C D include a plurality the elongated microcavities in this instance generally circular in cross section that are formed in the monolithic block of a polymer . The microcavities can also have other cross sections e.g. rectangular. The polymer is preferably a siloxane that is flexible transparent and is approved by the FDA for contact with human skin which is important for applications of the invention that relate to the treatment of human skin.

With a device or an array of the invention the shape of the microcavity and micronozzle exit at the end of the microcavity and the gas supplied by the gas supply are preferably selected to ensure that a plasma jet emitted from the microcavities is low temperature preferably less than 500K and most preferably 

The feedstock gas delivered by the gas supply in preferred embodiments can be one or more of a variety of atomic and molecular gases including the rare gases He Ne Ar Kr and Xe and N. Production of a plasma in the elongated microcavities generates electrons and ions as well as exited atoms and molecules that can have internal energies as high as 10 20 eV. Particularly long lived atomic or molecular states such as metastable states of the rare gas atoms are particularly effective in transferring energy to a second acceptor species. The Renning ionization of Nby the He atom in its metastable state to produce the B state of N is an important example.

The different between the arrays of and C D concern the electrode arrangements. In both embodiments the elongated microcavities are arranged in rows and the rows are interleaved with electrodes . The electrodes can be formed from metal foil a wire grid mesh or a deposited metal layer. Methods of fabrication in the present invention provide for plasma elongated microcavities having diameters in the range of 1 m to 5 mm to be fabricated. Both embodiments show a 5 5 array of elongated microcavities with an electrode disposed between each row.

The plasma produced in preferred microplasma jet devices of the invention are low temperature plasmas in which the electron temperature is much higher than the gas temperature. Experiments indicate that the electron temperature of plasma in microcavities of microplasma jet devices of the invention is higher than that of the plasma stream emerging from the exit of the device. Within the plasma effluent energetic species such as metastable atoms and molecules are also propelled with the jet and radiation including for example in the visible range and short wavelength ultraviolet range is also generated. These species and the ultraviolet light that can be produced by the plasma are lethal to many virtually all bacteria and viruses and hence the interest of many researchers in disinfection.

Additional embodiments illustrated in also show a 5 5 microplasma jet array. These embodiments differ only in their electrode configuration. All are formed in polymer blocks as described above. The array in has a similar electrode configuration to the embodiment of in that electrodes in the same vertical plane are electrically connected with showing 4 sets of electrodes in vertical planes. In the 3 sets of electrode columns are electrically connected as group and a time varying voltage is applied between the group and the 4set that is nearest to the flow tube elongated microcavities . In there are horizontal and vertical sets of electrodes in encapsulated in the polymer block . In three columns of horizontally oriented electrodes are electrically connected and a ring electrode is installed upstream of the cylindrical microcavities . Note also that only one flow tube is required to deliver gas to the entire array of plasma channels. Because the flow tube can be flexible the entire assembly can be lightweight and handheld such as by a surgeon or technician. For a medical device the array can be part of a wand or otherwise be configured to be held and manipulated by a user such as by a medical professional treating the skin of a patient.

A first step entails the design and construction of a mold which includes installation of an array of elongated microcavity forming pins such as microscale needles rods or similar structure that will serve to form elongated microcavities in a polymer block. The outer diameter of the pins should be the desired diameter of the elongated microcavities to be formed. The pins can have different shapes to produce elongated microcavities having various cross sections e.g. diamond elliptical and circular. The mold can be made from any convenient material that will hold the pins. Experiments even showed that LEGO toy blocks are suitable to use as a mold as one example.

The mold in also includes side shoulders that have a plurality of slots. The slots are offset between rows of the arrays. The top view of shows slots on both sides of the mold and show that the slots hold electrodes such as planar electrodes. In multiple electrodes are held in the slots and vertically separated from each other. This can be achieved in different ways with the shoulders such as by constructing the shoulders in segments such that a first segment has a slot on its top electrodes are placed an additional shoulder is added with more slots electrodes are placed and so forth. Other options such as cross pins and other standard techniques can support multiple levels of electrodes vertically in a slot. The assembly of such a structure can of course be automated.

In the mold is placed within a container that can contain a volume of heat curable polymer. In the volume of the container is partially or completely filled with a heat curable polymer. In after removing air bubbles the polymer is thermally cured at a suitable temperature and for a suitable time period that will depend upon the particular polymer. In experiments with siloxane polymers used to date curing times up to about one hour with temperatures in the range of 80 100 C. were demonstrated to be suitable. After the initial curing the solidified block is removed from the enclosure or alternatively the enclosure is dismantled the electrode support structure mold base is removed and the entire device is cured a second time at 80 100 C. Subsequently the channel forming rods or pins are removed and the polymer block is trimmed to the desired size. When the polymer is cured properly removal of the channel forming rods is straightforward and the walls of the resulting microcavities are smooth having no pits or imperfections.

Experimental devices formed in polymer have produced low temperature microplasma jets. is photograph of a 5 2 array of microplasma jets operated with a He flow rate of 4.6 SLM. The diameter of the jets is approximately 300 nm. The microplasma jets each extend several mm into room air and the jets have no observable interaction with each other. Artisans will recognize the important of the fact that such arrays of the invention produce microplasma jets that are uniform in intensity and length.

Devices of the invention and preferably low temperature microplasma jet devices can also be formed in metal and metal oxide. With precise control of the microcavity and nozzle shape provided by the invention the electric field distribution plasma distribution jet shape and temperature distribution can be designed to meet specific objectives include achieving a temperature microjet that consists of low temperature plasma. The precise shape of the micronozzle and microcavity can be achieved with electrochemical and micromachining techniques such as aluminum aluminum oxide AlO electrodes or titanium titanium dioxide TiO electrodes such that the microcavities are bounded by metal electrodes encapsulated within the metal oxide and such that the metal oxide. With the present invention the microcavity walls and micronozzles are shaped to control the characteristics of the microplasma jet plume that extends out of the microcavity as a primary objective.

Voltage current V I waveforms for a 5 5 array of jets having the design are shown in . For a driving voltage of 450 V the current increases in magnitude by 7 mA every time the voltage goes through a zero crossing. The V I characteristics for single Al AlOnozzles having different values of d see are shown in . For all of the measurements the He flow through the nozzle was maintained at 2.1 SLM and the exit aperture was 840 60 m. Notice that the data are linear with a positive slope. Consequently these devices do not require any external ballast.

A series of photographs of the plasma plume produced by a single Al AlOnozzle for which d 300 m and d 800 m configured according to is shown in . These images were recorded when the flow rate was increased in steps from 0.94 SLM to 2.7 SLM. The longest extent of the visible plasma plume approximately 1 mm is obtained for a He flow rate of 1.5 SLM. Apparent from is the fact that the microplasma jets are most intense in the throat of the micronozzles central region in with d is a simplified diagram depicting the arrangement adopted for testing arrays of Al AlOmicronozzles. An array of devices like those illustrated in was hooked up to a glass but and a flow meter controlled flow from an He Gas supply . illustrates design dimensions and fabrication conditions for a large array of microplasma jets.

Comprising 37 Al AlOnozzles the array is built into a circle having a diameter of only 10 mm 1 cm . The diameter of the throat of each nozzle d is 300 m and the pitch for the array is 2.1 mm. The entire array is fabricated in two sheets of Al foil each having dimensions of 16 mm 20 mm. When the nozzles are completed the Al electrodes have a thickness of only 20 m. A photograph of this array is presented in . The uniformity of the plasma plumes across the array is obvious. The array was sealed to a single 0.25 inch dia. glass tube.

It must be emphasized that this technology stands in sharp contrast to all commercially developed microplasma jet arrays developed in the past. All have been large tubes bundled together to yield a heavy cumbersome package. Making the microplasma plume in the form of a blade i.e. having a rectangular cross section with a high 5 1 aspect ratio is also feasible with the devices of the invention and will facilitate the processing of large surface areas.

As the metal metal oxide arrays or polymer arrays can be thin and flexible and since the polymer embodiments described above can be cast into a wide variety of shapes other geometries are also possible such as the cylinder arrangement of and the ball of . The different shaped devices can be useful to allow microplasma jets to be directed in a controlled fashion at different shaped targets.

Experimental devices have been formed to demonstrate the invention. Polymer based arrays have been fabricated with microplasma jets in the range of 100 300 m in diameter. Flexible visible and ultraviolet transparent polymer was used. An example experimental array included 10 jets have been made and tested in a cross sectional area of 0.16 cm. Arrays with as many as 64 jets have been experimentally demonstrated to date. The fabrication process enable the formation of arrays with many more microplasma jets. Metal and metal oxide devices have also been formed in aluminum and aluminum oxide. Fabricated nozzles have precisely controlled surfaces that allow for the plasma effluent to have particular properties with regard to temperature and velocity. The microplasma jets are believed to have smaller diameters than any elsewhere in the world and can be bundled together to have many microplasma jets together in a single lightweight package.

Artisans will recognize that the microplasma jets of the invention have many applications. A preferred application is in a medical device for the treatment of human tissue skin muscle etc. . Microplasmas jets of the invention are of particular value for this application because the plasma produced is of low temperature and will not burn tissue. Importantly though the microplasma jet arrays of the invention also produce energetic particles and short wavelength light that appear to be effective in promoting healing and disinfection. The large densities of excited species produced in these jets allow for materials modification such as the crystallization of thin polycrystalline Si films. Also the conversion of the phase of a thin region at the surface of a glass plate will also be possible.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

