---

title: Automatic population of a network accessible content collection
abstract: A system, computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program, and computer-implemented method for automatically posting content to a network accessible content collection are described. User activity over a communication network from a client device is tracked and a triggering event is detected. In response to detecting the triggering event, a content item is automatically posted to a network accessible collection of content items viewable by additional users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438684&OS=09438684&RS=09438684
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09438684
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
This application relates generally to data processing within a network based system and more specifically to systems and methods to automatically populate a network accessible content collection.

Traditional online social networks and pinboard style social content sharing websites allow users to create manage and share content collections with other users. Content collections may for example be comprised of videos audio files and images. Users may create collections based on a particular theme or category such as events interests or hobbies. To create each content collection a user must first locate desired content which is usually derived from the collection of another user or from a third party website. The user may then be required to then manually upload each content item to the website. Once the content is uploaded to the website a user is then tasked with manually sorting through each content item and categorizing it for placement in an appropriate collection.

However the time and effort needed to create a collection that is meaningful to the user may limit the use of such a service. Also the timing and manual input required for content collection creation may create an undesired lag time from the initial creation of a collection to its completion which may decrease the popularity and relevance of a particular collection in the minds of the creating user and others who may view the collection. Further a user s content collections may be limited to only those items which currently exist in the collection of another user or on other websites.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that it is not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the described embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In addition well known features may not have been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the subject matter.

In accordance with the present disclosure the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems programming languages computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose or nature such as hardwired devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the concepts disclosed herein. Embodiments may also be tangibly embodied as a set of computer instructions stored on a computer readable medium such as a memory device.

Aspects of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for automatic population of a network accessible collection of content items. In some embodiments each content item posted to the collection may be automatically categorized based on attributes of the content. A user s content collection may be populated with content items related to both online and offline activity of a user. User activity may for example include browsing websites online shopping taking pictures or physical location check ins. In some embodiments users viewing a particular content collection may be provided with recommendations based on the content in the collection.

In some embodiments a user may specify certain activities or types of activities the user wishes to post to one or more collections of content. For example a user may specify that only content related to online shopping be posted to a content collection. In another example the user may specify that only content related to activity occurring within a certain time period e.g. during an activity sharing session be posted to content collections.

A data exchange platform in an example form of a network based publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more client devices. The one or more client devices may be operated by users that use the network system and more specifically the network based publisher to exchange data over the network . These transactions may include transmitting receiving i.e. communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to content and user data such as textual image audio and or video data product and service reviews product service manufacture and vendor recommendations and identifiers product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers product and service advertisements visualization data parcel shipping data auction bids and transaction data among other things.

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present inventive subject matter is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various modules of the plurality of servers may also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client device such as a client device using web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with a client device using a programmatic client such as a client application or a third party server e.g. one or more servers or client devices hosting a third party application . It can be appreciated in various embodiments that the client device and or the third party server may be associated with a buyer a seller a third party electronic commerce platform a payment service provider or a shipping service provider each in communication with the network based publisher and optionally each other. The buyers and sellers may be any one of individuals merchants or service providers among other things.

The client devices and may be any of a variety of types of devices for example a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a Personal Navigation Device PND a handheld computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a notebook computer a wearable computing device or other type of movable device . The client devices and may interface via a connection with a communication network e.g. the Internet or WAN . Depending on the form of the client device and any of a variety of types of connections and communication networks may be used.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1xRTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

Turning specifically to the networked based publisher an application programming interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to a plurality of servers . The servers host one or more user activity tracking module s and publication module s . The plurality of servers may be coupled via these interfaces to the network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. The plurality of servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s . In some examples the plurality of servers can access the database s directly without the need for a database server.

The user activity tracking module may be a hardware implemented module or software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to track user activity. The user activity tracking module may for example track activity of a user occurring on the client device over network . In some embodiments the user activity tracking module may track activity in accordance with a user preference setting discussed below in reference to . In some embodiments the user activity tracking module may be selectively enabled or disabled by a user or automatically. The selective enabling or disabling of the user activity tracking module may be performed independent of the user preferences or triggers of user preferences. The selective enabling or disabling of the user activity tracking module may be effected through actuation of a user interface element such as a toggle a switch or a button or through actuation of a physical element to which the selective enabling feature is mapped.

The user activity tracked by the user activity tracking module may occur online or offline and may be comprised of several types of user activity. User activity types occurring online may include by way of non limiting example general website browsing online shopping viewing media content reading an online magazine or newspaper or creating blog or social network posts.

In some embodiments the user activity tracking module may track offline activity of a user through communications with mobile applications of client device offering location based services. User activity types occurring offline may for example include taking pictures with a camera of a client device or a physical location check in e.g. hotel airport scanning of barcodes or other identifiers or social network service using a client device with Global Positioning System GPS or other location sensing capabilities e.g. client device .

In some embodiments the user activity tracking module is operable to detect a triggering event occurring within the activity of a user. The triggering event may be a specified user activity or type of user activity that triggers automatic posting of a content item to a network accessible collection of content items. For example a triggering event may be browsing a certain website or list of websites . For example a user visiting www.ebay.com may trigger the posting of a content item to a network accessible collection of content items. The content item posted may be an textual or visual indication that the user is visiting www.ebay.com such as a screenshot of the website a textual description that the user is visiting the website or an image associated with the website e.g. a logo among other things. In another example a triggering event may be adding an item to a virtual shopping cart hosted by an online merchant. In yet another example a triggering event may be a physical location check in using a mobile device. In still another example a triggering event may be general online browsing occurring within a specified time period which may be a user initiated sharing session. In this example a collection may be formed of a user s browsing activity over a period of time. The collection may be accessible to other users such that they may see what websites and other online resources are being viewed by the user.

In some embodiments the triggering event s may be specified by the user in a preference setting of the network based publisher discussed in detail below . Each user may specify a list of triggering events to trigger the posting of a content item to a network accessible collection of content items.

The user activity tracking module may be operatively coupled to one or more publication modules . The publication module s may be a hardware implemented module or software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to publish content related to user activity to a network accessible content collection. The publication module s may provide a number of publisher functions and services e.g. automatic posting of content categorizing content providing recommendations etc. to users that access the network based publisher . For example the publication application s may provide a number of services and functions to users for selecting content items based on user activity automatically posting content items to a collection of content items and automatically categorizing each content item of the collection of content based on attributes of the content. Additionally the publication module s may provide recommendations to users viewing another user s collection of content items.

Database server may facilitate access to one or more databases and retrieve data for inclusion in the presentation data. The data may correspond to user activity information content related to user activity user preference settings user recommendations coupons or advertisements listings of products or related products offered for sale and so forth. In some embodiments the database s may include databases both internal to the network based publisher and external.

As illustrated in the publication modules are shown to include one or more networked content collection module s . The networked content collection module s may provide programmatic access to one or more users to maintain a network accessible collection of content items. Each user may maintain one or more network accessible content collections. The networked content collection module s may also provide access to one or more users to view the content collections of other users. Each of the networked content collections may include audio video image or text content.

In some embodiments the user may specify how the content is to be organized and categorized. In other embodiments the content collection is automatically organized by one or more content organization module s . Each of the content collections may be organized for example by a specified theme a subject matter content type date of inclusion into the collection or any other attribute of the content. Organization and categorization of content may include extraction and determination of items or objects contained with content items. For example image recognition techniques may be performed on an image to extract and determine the identity of items contained in the image. Optical character recognition may be performed on content items to extract text contained in the content items. Audio fingerprinting and extraction may be performed on audio files to determine an identity of the audio file.

As illustrated the publication modules are shown to include one or more user preference module s which may allow a user to specify via a user interface of web server one or more user preferences related to the automatic population of a network accessible content collection. The user preferences may include a list of one or more triggering events occurring within the activity of the user that the user desires to trigger the population of a content collection. In some embodiments the user preference setting may also include access permissions for additional users to view a particular content collection. The user preference settings may also include access credentials for one or more online member profiles for websites hosted by the third party server .

In some embodiments a preference setting may include a time period or a location for which a user activity sharing session may occur. In this embodiment the user activity tracking module may track only activities occurring during the user activity sharing session. In other embodiments the list of triggering events may include specific times and specific locations that may trigger the population of a content collection.

In some embodiments a user may not specify user preference settings. In this embodiment the user preference module s may automatically select a set of default user preference settings which may include one or more default triggering events.

As illustrated in the publication module s may also include one or more content selection module s which may analyze user activity tracking data received from the user activity tracking module and select one or more content items from that data for posting to the networked content collection module s . The one or more content items may be one of a variety of content types including for example an audio file an image a video or an electronic article.

In some embodiments the selection of content may be based on the type of user activity for which the content item is being posted. For example the content selection module s may select an image of a product to post to the networked content collection module s for user activity that includes online shopping for the product. In some embodiments the type of content selected for each user activity type may be specified by the user via the user interface of web server at the user preference module s .

In some embodiments the selection of content may be based on the availability of content related to the user activity. For example the content selection module s may select an image of a location based on user activity data that includes a user physical location check in. In this example the image of the location may be the only available content related to the physical location check in.

As illustrated in the publication module s may include one or more posting module s . In some embodiments the posting module s may post the one or more content items obtained from the content selection module s to the networked content collection module s . In some embodiments the posting module s may post one or more content items obtained from the content selection module s to a network content collection hosted by a third party server .

The posting module s may automatically post the one or more content items in real time without interaction from the user as the user activity data is received from the user activity tracking module . In some embodiments the posting module s may automatically post the one or more content items in real time without interaction from the user in response to the user activity tracking module detecting a triggering event.

As illustrated in the publication module s may include one or more content organization module s which may automatically organize categorize and create collections of content items for inclusion into the networked content collection module s of the network based publisher or a networked content collection hosted by third party server . The content organization module s may assign a category to each content item and organize each collection by category. Content items may be categorized by attributes of the content. The attributes used to categorize content may for example include subject matter content type user activity type the timing of the related user activity location of the user activity color or size of the content. For example the content organization module s may categorize and organize all content items related to an online shopping session into one single collection of content items. For example users may be able to view a collection of content items related to an online shopping session performed by another user such as a connoisseur or celebrity. The content items may not only include items purchased by the user but also items or pages viewed by the user. In this respect in some embodiments users may be able to see what a celebrity is viewing and obtain information on the latest trends for a particular subject matter. In another example the content organization module may categorize a group of images obtained from a client device from one particular location. In this respect a user may share images from a trip or outing with other users without the necessity of uploading or selecting each image for posting to a third party social network. The sharing of images may be automatically performed and posted to a content collection for all or some users to view.

In some embodiments the content organization module s may organize categorize and create a collection of content for all user activity for a user specified time period e.g. a user activity sharing session . a user activity sharing session . In some embodiments the posting module and the content organization module s may categorize and post content items to different content collections. For example if a user is performing an online shopping session that the user has chosen to share through the content collections different items or types of items may be posted to different content collections as the user browses one or more e commerce websites. Thus different sets of shoes that the user views may be posted to a shoes collection and different electronics items that the user views may be posted to an electronics collection. In another example if a user decides to share a general online browsing session different types of articles read by the user may be posted to different collections. For example sports articles may be posted to a sports collection while news articles may be posted to a current events collection.

As illustrated in the publication module s may also include one or more recommendation module s to provide users with recommendations based on the user activity data used to populate the networked content collection. In some embodiments the recommendation module s may provide a recommendation to a user based on the user s activity. In other embodiments the recommendation module s may provide a user who may be viewing a particular content collection with a recommendation based on the contents of collection. The form in which the recommendation may be presented is not intended to be limited. The recommendation may take the form of another content item presented with the content collection a banner or other type of display advertisement a pop up or pop under advertisement an interstitial advertisement a notification an email or a text message among other things.

In some embodiments a recommendation may include a link for a website or list of websites having content or other items that are related to the user activity. For example the recommendation module s may provide a user with a list of similar products when that user s activity includes shopping online for a particular product. In another example the recommendation module s may provide a first user viewing a second user s content collection including images of vintage cars with a link to a third party website that may host images and information for vintage cars. In yet another example a first user viewing a second user s content collection related to the second user s physical location check in at a particular restaurant may be provided with reviews directions or a menu related to the restaurant. In some embodiments conversion of a recommendation into a sale of an item may cause a referral fee or other incentive to be paid to the user who created the content collection associated with the recommendation. The referral fee may take the form of an amount of money a credit a discount off a future purchase associated with a website a coupon associated with a website a promotion associated with the user s content collection such as featuring the content collection more prominently on a website and the like.

At operation the user activity tracking module may track user activity of a user on a client device e.g. client device over a communication network e.g. network . The activity of the user may include both online e.g. browsing shopping reading online articles and offline e.g. taking pictures physical location check in activities. In some embodiments the user activity tracking module may only track activity during a specified time period e.g. an activity sharing session established by the user . The parameters for tracking activity may be default or determined based on user preferences.

At operation the user activity tracking module may detect using one or more processors a triggering event. The triggering event may be associated with a list of specified types of user activity that trigger automatic posting of a content item to a network accessible collection of content items viewable by additional users. In some embodiments the triggering event may be specified by the user via a user interface of web server at user preference module s .

In response to the detecting of the triggering event the posting module s may automatically post the content item to the network accessible collection of content items e.g. networked content collection module s at operation . The content collection may be accessed and viewed by additional users.

The method may optionally include the step of automatically categorizing and organizing the content of the content collection based on at least one attribute of the content. These attributes may for example include the time location frequency or type of user activity or the subject matter color font or type of content.

The method may also optionally include the step of providing the additional users with a recommendation based on the content of the content collection at operation . Depending on the type of user activity for which the content is used to populate the collection these recommendations may take a variety of forms. For example a recommendation may include a link for a website or list of websites having content or other items that are related to products included in the content collection.

In this example embodiment the user may access the virtual shopping cart on the display of client device over network . The user activity tracking module may be communicatively coupled to the client device over network and may track the activity of the user on the website of the online merchant. The activity of the user may include searching through several product listings offered by the merchant viewing one or more product listings adding items to the virtual cart and purchasing items in the virtual shopping cart . In some embodiments adding an item to the virtual shopping cart may be a triggering event that triggers the posting of content to a network accessible content collection. In this embodiment the user activity tracking module may detect the adding of the item to the virtual shopping cart which is indicated by display prompt . In response the content selection module s may select the image to be posted to a network accessible content collection.

As illustrated by the network accessible content collection may include an identifier which may identify the particular content collection being viewed. In some embodiments the identifier may include a category assigned to the content by the organization module s . In this example the network accessible content collection includes Products of Interest for the user . In this example the network accessible content collection may include content items related to online shopping activity of the user .

The network accessible content collection also includes the image which may be posted to the network accessible content collection by the posting module s in response to the user activity tracking module detecting a triggering event e.g. adding item to the virtual shopping cart . The network accessible content collection may also include previously posted content such as images and . The network accessible content collection may include data items and which may provide information for each of the images and respectively. In some embodiments data items and may include a link or uniform resource locator URL corresponding to images and to redirect a user to the website where the content originated.

As illustrated in the display of the network accessible content collection may include recommendation link . The recommendation link may link a user to a list of recommendations provided by the recommendation module . The list of recommendations may include additional content items related to content contained in the network accessible content collection .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

