---

title: Enhancing information delivery to a called party
abstract: A facilitation and enhancement of interactions between a caller and a called party, such as a call center. The enhancement of interactions between a mobile device caller and a call center is by the communication of the mobile device caller's location and/or preferences to the call center. The communication can be in the form of a data structure stored on a computer-readable storage device, which may be transmitted from the mobile device caller to a call center controller. The data structure contains a caller identification entry, which allows the call center to match the data structure with a caller. In addition, a caller context entry associates additional data to the caller identification entry. The additional data includes at least one preference and/or location of the caller. Processor-based methods are disclosed to create, transmit, and/or utilize the data structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143884&OS=09143884&RS=09143884
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09143884
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121109
---
Mobile phone users often become frustrated when interacting with call centers or other called parties such as in noisy environments. Interactive voice response IVR systems and call center agents tediously force users to navigate through verbal prompts or menus which take excessive amounts of the user s valuable time.

The problem can be particularly acute when a user attempts to interact with a call center in a noisy environment. In such situations background noise can overwhelm the user s verbal responses making proper recognition of the user s utterances difficult if not impossible. As a result the user may repeatedly and unsuccessfully attempt interactions with the call center or called party. Unable to interact in a convenient or timely manner the user may ultimately experience dissatisfaction and frustration.

An IVR system or a human agent may needlessly ask a user questions and waste the time of the user. For example a user may spend minutes navigating through an initial series of questions or menus of an IVR system such as those which ask a user for his language or other preferences e.g. press one for English or marque numero dos para Espa ol. 

Given these and other problems a need exists for a system that overcomes the problems as well as provides additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related systems and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of existing or prior systems will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description.

As will be explained in further detail below one embodiment of the disclosed technology uses a programmed processor to compose an electronic service solicitation using mobile device call logs. The service when delivered to a mobile device can be a promotion of a mobile device support application the presentment of a coupon or the administration of a caller experience survey. The service is delivered in connection with the user making a call to a particular number on the mobile device. In one embodiment a method for composing the solicitation includes selecting a business number selecting a group of wireless subscribers sending an information request to the mobile devices of the selected wireless subscribers receiving affirmative responses from the selected wireless subscribers who recently called the selected business number counting the affirmative responses and using the count for composing the solicitation.

In various embodiments the technology described herein enhances interactions between a mobile device caller and a call center by sending information including the mobile device caller s location or preferences to the call center. The information can be stored on a computer readable storage device and transmitted from the mobile device caller to a call center controller. The sent or received information contains a caller identification which allows the call center to match the rest of the sent or received information with a caller. In addition to the caller identification a caller context entry associates additional data to the caller identification. The additional data includes at least one preference or location of the caller. Processor based methods are disclosed to create transmit or utilize the data.

In at least one embodiment of the disclosed technology a processor based method facilitates interactions between a caller and a called party. The processor based method includes caching one or more pieces of personal information on a mobile device using a wireless telecommunications network to conduct a phone call with a third party receiving a command from a user of the mobile device to deliver one or more pieces of the cached information to the third party during the phone conversation and automatically delivering the requested one or more pieces of cached information to the third party. In one embodiment the delivery takes place via the same outbound audio channel as is used for the phone call.

Various examples of the disclosed technology will now be described. The following description provides certain specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the art will understand however that the disclosed technology may be practiced without many of these details. Likewise one skilled in the art will also understand that the disclosed technology may include many other features not described in detail herein. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant descriptions of the various examples.

The terminology used below is to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the technology. Indeed certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

Customers utilize a variety of public switched telephone networks PSTNs to reach business call centers when in need of service or support from businesses. Examples of the PSTN connections include plain old telephone service POTS connections Integrated Services Digital Network connections not illustrated and wireless network connections . The business call centers utilize human agents interactive voice response systems or a combination thereof to provide service to the customers .

Some customers have access to smartphones which support installable applications coupons or surveys that relate to the businesses. However in many cases the smartphones initially lack these services for example when the support applications have not yet been installed .

Some customers are able to utilize their smartphones to directly access download sources for installing applications on their smartphones. The download sources include business websites the ITUNES platform provided by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and the ANDROID Market provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Some download sources only support specific smartphone platforms. For example ITUNES caters specifically to IPHONEs and other iOS devices but does not support ANDROID devices. Some sources are accessible by application browsing software that runs on smartphones . However such application browsing software is traditionally tedious to use. Therefore many customers use smartphones to call the business call centers without discovering the businesses support applications that can eliminate the need for them to call the business call centers and enrich their customer experience.

One or more phone number based advertising servers operate to alleviate these problems. The phone number based advertising servers can use the wireless network to access the call history of the smartphones in order to determine which smartphones called a particular business call center . Alternately or additionally the servers can communicate with the business call centers to determine customers who have not yet discovered a business s application coupon or survey.

In some embodiments the advertising server alternately or additionally identifies customers calling from smartphones that are likely compatible with one or more installable apps coupons or surveys. For example an advertising server may determine a list of smartphones who have recently made calls to a particular business phone number and use an operating system that is compatible with a particular installable application but who have not yet installed the application.

In some embodiments the phone number based advertising server may send a solicitation to one or more business managers related to the business call centers with information describing how many of the smartphones are calling one or more of the business call centers without utilizing an installed application app coupon or survey . The solicitation therefore identifies a market segment that the business manager may decide to target to efficiently deliver of one or more apps coupons or surveys. In some embodiments the server can assist a business manager with the delivery of the one or more of the apps coupons or surveys to the target market segment. The advertising server may download or obtain information about one or more support applications from the download sources . A smartphone may then receive a suggestion to install a support application directly from the server . In some aspects the server will augment or modify a support application received from the download sources prior to delivering it to a smartphone in order to add additional functionality relating to the server for example to enable facilitate or streamline future interactions between the smartphone and the advertising server .

One or more external directories can allow the phone number based advertising servers to associate phone numbers with businesses keywords and applications where the server is not already aware of such associations. Exemplary third party providers of this data include the InfoUSA business directory service provided by INFOGROUP Inc. of Papillion NE the chomp iTunes application search service provided by APPLE Inc. and reverse phone lookup databases which return corresponding business names addresses contact information etc. when provided a business phone number.

The business managers can use the advertising server to access information about the smartphone calling customer population who has called their business numbers or the numbers of a competitors or other businesses of interest e.g. in the same industry related by one or more keywords etc. . In some cases one or more business managers will utilize the advertising servers to offer the advertised services to the smartphones . The service may be offered in a number of ways retroactively e.g. to smartphones who have already called a business number in the past or in the future e.g. to smartphones around the time when they call the business number in the future. Around the time when a smartphone calls the business number can be before the call e.g. after a request to call the number is dialed or otherwise requested but before the call to the business call center connects during the call e.g. after the call has been originated and before it is terminated or after the call e.g. after the call has been terminated . In various aspects the business managers may specify various details to the advertising severs relating to service offer such as which service the business managers are requesting to be offered which of the smartphones should be targeted with the offer of the service when the service should be offered and other details regarding how the advertising servers should offer the service etc.

The representative smartphone includes a processor which executes instructions to perform various actions and functions of the smartphone. The instructions are typically stored in a smartphone memory or other storage device residing on the smartphone . The smartphone is capable of having included or installed one or more electronic coupons electronic surveys and third party applications e.g. support applications . The smartphone additionally includes a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface a dialer e.g. a dialer application allowing the user to dial a phone number in order to make a phone call a call monitoring component e.g. an operating system alert service providing a message when a user places a call to one or more phone numbers that are being monitored a processor and a call analyzing component e.g. a component that may receive a call monitoring alert or access a call log to determine a user s calling activity to one or more business numbers .

The call log maintains at least some of the calling activity history for the smartphone . The call log typically includes information such as which numbers were recently dialed whether the calls were successfully connected when the calls were connected the durations of the connected calls which inbound calls were recently received by the smartphone and when available from which phone numbers the calls were received whether inbound calls were missed and so on.

The smartphone may also store data for one or more user preferences for example a user s name home address or the addresses of other locations typically preferred schedules preferred languages and so on. Such preferences may be automatically collected by an operating system or an application of the smartphone or may be specified by the user explicitly e.g. via the user interface . Additionally the smartphone can include user authentication information and other personal information such as the user s account numbers passwords voice signatures for use with voice biometric authentication and so on.

If agreed to by the owner of the smartphone the phone number based advertising server can access the call history of the smartphone by looking for one or more business numbers in the outgoing call log . Communications between the server and the smartphone occur over a wireless network data connection in order to accomplish this. For example the call analyzing component may automatically receive an appropriately routed binary SMS message transmitted by the server to the smartphone across the wireless network . Additionally or alternately bidirectional communications may be accomplished using Session Initiation Protocol SIP Internet Protocol version 6 IPV6 or any other delivery technology known in the art for communicating data across a wireless network .

An exemplary phone number based advertising system server contains a business manager user interface e.g. to facilitate interactions between the server and business managers. In some aspects the business manager user interface may be in the form of a Web based application that is accessed across the internet. A Web services application programming interface API exports various functionality to applications on remote computers such as the personal computer of a business manager that is connected to the internet. In some aspects the API could interface with smartphones . The server contains caller information providing software which allows the business managers to receive information about callers such as the smartphone or users of the smartphone and in some cases other customers who call business call centers . The communication linkage between the server and a call center may utilize a public network such as the internet or a private network. In some aspects the server may even be located within the premises of a call center. The server may obtain information about callers by sending and receiving messages to the smartphone or the business call centers .

In one embodiment the advertising server contains a bidding platform that the business managers can use to bid against each other for services solicited advertised promoted offered or delivered by the server . A business manager solicitation component can compose send or present solicitations advertisements to the business managers . A payments and settlements component may present bills and statements to the business managers and receive payments from the business managers such as those who accept the solicitations or submit winning bids to the bidding platform . In some aspects the payments and settlements component may additionally or alternately be configured to receive payments from customers . The payments and settlements component may also accrue balances such as additional balances owed as a result of the offering or delivery of a service to a smartphone e.g. delivery of a support application to the smartphone as part of providing an electronic service to one of the business managers . Various components of the server may utilize a call log aggregating component a caller information collecting component and a caller population analyzing component . For example the bidding manager solicitation component may compose a solicitation that includes a number of callers in a population who recently dialed a particular business phone number. The population can be analyzed by the analyzing component determined from aggregations produced by the call log aggregating component and information collected from the caller information collecting component .

A processor residing on the server executes server instructions to perform various actions and functions of the server . These server instructions are typically stored in a memory or other storage device not illustrated residing on the server .

In various embodiments of the disclosed technology one or more system directories may be present on the server or the smartphone . The directories assist in the operation of various components of the server or the smartphone .

For an example utilization of the system directories within the smartphone the monitoring component can utilize the directories to determine which phone numbers to monitor or what to do in response to monitored events relating to a phone number e.g. a call to the monitored phone number is requested a call to the monitored phone number is completed an incoming call from the monitored phone number is missed etc . For example the monitoring component can use the directories to determine whether to suggest an application be installed or launched and which application to suggest in response to a monitored phone number being dialed. Additional details regarding the operation of the monitoring component including determining if a called number is in a list e.g. in a directory and what actions to perform in response is further detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 539 484 entitled Method and System for Enhancing Voice Calls Such as Enhancing Voice Calls with Data Services dated May 26 2009 the content of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety. Additional or alternate criteria may be applied when determining when to display interactive content e.g. when to prompt the user to suggest an application survey or coupon which are further detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 756 545 entitled Method for Performing Interactive Services dated Jul. 13 2010 the content of which is also hereby incorporated in its entirety.

For an example utilization of the system directories within the server the server can utilize the directories to determine which download sources to access directly or to point to such as by a deep link which business managers to contact how to associate business managers with called numbers e.g. reaching a business call center and so on.

In some embodiments the system directories may be distributed across or duplicated on the smartphone and the server . The external directories may provide the system directories or provide data from which the system directories are derived.

In other embodiments additional or alternate information may be contained in the application directory by phone number . For example the directory may contain text or other content to present when suggesting that an application be installed. As another example the directory may contain information about whether the suggestion should be triggered when the call is requested to the number when the call is completed to the number or at some time after the call is completed to the number e.g. 20 minutes after the call has been completed or at 7 00 PM after the number was dialed when the user may be more likely to be responsive to the suggestion location criteria that may be applied in determining when to trigger the suggestion e.g. the user is at home as evidenced by a global positioning signal nearby Wi Fi access point cellular tower identifier for which a wireless network connection is established and so on . As another example the directory may contain a link to a coupon or survey that should be presented or suggested instead of an application when a user calls a number in the directory.

In some cases the additional or alternate information may not be contained remotely e.g. in a download source and may be accessed e.g. using the download source deep link when it is needed so the additional or alternate information need not be locally stored on the smartphone .

A keyword directory by phone number can be used to look up one or more keywords associated with a phone number. An application directory by keyword can be used to look up an application name and a corresponding download or deep link when given one or more keywords. A smartphone can first use the keyword directory by phone number to look up one or more keywords associated with a phone number that was just dialed and then use the application directory by keyword to determine if it should suggest installing or launching an application.

A caller directory by dialed phone number can be used to store and look up a list of callers who have recently dialed a phone number when given the phone number. For example it can be used by the server to store and retrieve which smartphones called a particular number.

Proceeding to a block the process selects a group of wireless subscribers. For example it may select a subset of the smartphones with which a calling analyzing component can communicate. In some aspects a smartphone may not be configured to provide access to its call log unless a user of the smartphone has installed a particular application or agreed to permit access to instances of one or more business phone numbers appearing in its call logs or calling history.

In some aspects the server keeps track of which smartphones are configured to provide access to their call logs in such a manner. For example when the calling analyzing component becomes newly configured in such a manner on a smartphone the newly configured smartphone may send a message to the advertising server for indicating its new configuration.

Proceeding to block the advertising server sends an information request to the selected group of smartphones. For example it could send a binary SMS to each one of the group which would be automatically received by the configured call analyzing components . In some aspects the information request may contain the business phone number selected in block . In some aspects the business phone number may be implied by the request or may be included within a range of numbers sent by the information request. When a configured smartphone receives the information request the call analyzing component may look use the call log to determine if the selected business phone number has been recently called e.g. if the number is in the outgoing call log. In some aspects the calling analyzing component may perform additional processing such as determining if an electronic coupon electronic survey or support application that is associated with the selected business phone number is already installed or stored on the smartphone . For example the calling analyzing component may perform this determination by consulting the directory to determine the application associated with the selected phone number and determining if that application is already installed on the smartphone . In some aspects the smartphone may only respond positively if the selected phone number has been recently dialed e.g. is in the call log and if no application associated with the selected phone number is already installed. If the application is already installed the smartphone may indicate this in a negative response to the server. If the phone number has not been recently dialed the smartphone may indicate this in a negative response to the server. In some aspects the server may interpret a lack of a response from a smartphone within a certain period of time as a negative response so that no responses need be sent across the wireless network to communicate the response being negative. A person with skill in the art will appreciate that additional various criteria could be applied by the smartphone or by the server to further determine whether a positive response will be interpreted as being received from the smartphone or not.

Proceeding to block the positive affirmative response is received from a smartphone by the server . Block loops as additional positive responses are received from other smartphones. Proceeding to block the server counts the number of received positive responses. Proceeding to block the server uses the counted number for composing a solicitation. For example the server may include the count within the solicitation or a percentage which is calculated based on the count etc. The server may consult internal or external directories to determine the recipient of such a solicitation. The solicitation targets an electronic service associated with the selected number.

Referring back to the solicitation is delivered to a business representative for PackageEx. The advertising server sends the solicitation to PackageEx which offers to send the users an offer to download an application. If PackageEx agrees as is illustrated in step then messages are sent to the 15 000 affirmatively responding smartphones suggesting that they download and install the offered application in step . As is illustrated in the example messages may be sent to the other smartphones in the group of 150 000 to configure them for suggesting to install a PackageEx app the next time 1 800 PACKAGE is called.

In some embodiments the server configuration messages sent by the server alternately or additionally configure mobile devices to suggest launching an already installed support application. Because a smartphone user may have installed a large number e.g. hundreds of third party applications the user is likely to forget at least some infrequently used installed applications. Accordingly such a suggestion or reminder to launch an already installed support application at a contextually relevant time e.g. when the user calls the business s phone number can be useful for facilitating the rediscovery of that business s support application.

In some embodiments the smartphone may even prompt the user whether to in the future automatically intercept calls to the business s phone number and automatically launch the business s support application rather than proceeding with the call. This can be beneficial to the user as a convenient means for launching a support application based on a dialed phone number.

As is illustrated by step a deep link compatible with the smartphone application is inserted into an application directory by phone number stored in the smartphone so that the next time 1 800 PAC KAGE is called the call monitoring component presents the suggestion to install the PackageEx app. In some embodiments the server may send multiple deep links for different smartphone configurations or platforms e.g. different operating systems and the smartphone can automatically use the correct compatible deep link e.g. depending on whether the smartphone is ANDROID compatible iOS compatible etc. . In other embodiments the server maintains lists of the smartphones configurations or platforms e.g. by maintaining separate lists for ANDROID compatibility iOS compatibility and so on and the server could then send a compatible deep link to each of the smartphones based on its known compatibility information.

The PackageEx support application being suggested here could provide all or some of the support functions that 1 800 PACKAGE call center does. For example it could be useful for checking a shipping delivery status. Because the support application can have abilities beyond what is available via a PSTN communication e.g. visual information presented on the display screen more or other user input modes being available such touchscreen input querty keyboard input and so on it can provide the user with a superior customer experience. Because using the support application doesn t require tying up phone lines it can save the user on calling minutes which may conserve some wireless network resources. In some scenarios the support application could be useful when no cellular network coverage is present but another communication channel such as Wi Fi is present such as when a user is traveling by airplane . Furthermore because using the PackageEx app reduces the number of callers who call the call center for 1 800 PACKAGE less staff e.g. a fewer number of agents may be needed. Accordingly enhancing the discoverability of a business s support applications can reduce business expenses.

When the user responds to the suggestion to install an application illustrated in e.g. by tapping on the suggestion appearing in a similar type of suggestion as that illustrated in may then appear on the screen.

As is illustrated in an example above a delivery of a service may be requested by a business manager such as in response to a solicitation. The server may deliver one of the advertised services. For example the server can send a message such as a binary SMS to a smartphone being offered the service that causes the user interface to present a suggestion to install a third party application. This suggestion may occur at a time determined by the server e.g. by timing when the message is sent to the mobile device or at a time determined by the smartphone e.g. by using the call monitoring component to trigger the suggestion the next time that the user places a call to the selected business phone number .

In other aspects a coupon or a caller survey may be presented on the user interface instead of or in addition to the suggestion to install the third party application. illustrate other exemplary solicitations composed using the process of including a solicitation for the administration of a caller survey and a solicitation for distributing an electronic coupon.

The solicitation provided by the advertising server may include details such as what items should be presented or suggested e.g. an application download deep link or other uniform resource locator whether the presentment or suggestion should occur when a user requests a call to the selected business phone number but before the call is originated on the PSTN whether the presentment or suggestion should occur instead of originating or continuing a call to the selected business phone number that is requested or originated on the PSTN or whether the presentment or suggestion should occur after the completion of a call to the selected business phone number optionally including whether a delay or additional criteria should be applied to the timing of the suggestion such as when the mobile device is at a particular location etc. By presenting particular offers to targeted users at particular times or scenarios the conversion rate the change that the user will use the coupon take the survey or install or launch the suggested support application is likely to be much higher than otherwise. By targeting users who have called the selected business number or who have compatible smartphones it allows business managers to focus the delivery of a service at an especially valuable customer or potential customer segment.

The recording may occur during a live phone call to a first called party. For example the smartphone may automatically associate and record an identifier for the first called party e.g. the phone number of the first called party with the cached personal information. The cached personal information may comprise a single piece of information e.g. a recording of the user s name or multiple pieces of information e.g. a first recording of the user s name and a second recording of the user s social security number . The smartphone may prompt the user whether to record personal information before doing so or may prompt the user whether to save or discard automatically recorded personal information. The smartphone may prompt the user to identify the cached information e.g. to identify a recording of a user s spoken name as a user s full name or the user s first name the user s social security number airline frequent flyer account number and so on. The smartphone then stores the identification along with the cached information. The smartphone may monitor the audio input for any repeated phrases and cache the repeated phrases as they could indicate difficulty in communication e.g. a called party such as an IVR might ask the caller to repeat stating the caller s account number when the initially stated account number was not accurately recognized for reasons such as excessive background noise .

The recording may also occur when there is no live phone call. For example the user may select a menu option to activate an information caching feature of the smartphone . The information caching feature may then prompt the user to speak the personal information to optionally identify what it is and if desired to repeat the operation of the caching feature to record pieces of information with different identifications. In some aspects the information caching feature will prompt the user to specify which called or callable parties e.g. phone numbers should be allowed access to some or all of the cached information.

When prompting the user to identify a piece of information the smartphone may present the user with a list of commonly identified pieces of personal information such as first name last name full name social security number last four digits of social security number home address home city and state work address and so on. Alternately or additionally the smartphone may process the recorded information to determine what its identity most likely is. For example if the recorded information consists of a sequence of first group of three utterances a pause a second group of three utterances a pause and a third group of four utterances the smartphone may determine that it is likely a phone number with area code. In some aspects the smartphone will automatically store an automatically determined identification e.g. the user s mobile phone number with area code without prompting the user for its verification.

In some aspects audio information may be converted to textually represented information before being stored. For example the process can utilize a voice to text decoder to determine which question an IVR asked e.g. what is your name in order to associate the IVR question with a recorded piece of information. In other aspects the user can directly enter personal information in a textual manner e.g. by the use of a keyboard such as may be found on a touchscreen or by the use of a touch sensor to input the text using handwriting recognition etc. .

Proceeding to a block the process participates in a phone conversation. For example the user of the smartphone may dial a phone number to make a call which is answered by a called party. In some aspects the process will additionally monitor which number is being called or perform a check to verify that a particular number is called.

Proceeding to a block the process receives a command to deliver the cached personal information to the other party of the phone conversation. In some aspects this command may be received after the call is requested e.g. the user may select an option representing the command that is presented on a graphical user interface of the smartphone before the call is requested e.g. by the user selecting that the information be delivered to future calls made to a particular phone number or as part of a request to make a call e.g. the act of dialing a particular phone number previously associated with the cached information may be the command to deliver the cached information to the called party .

Proceeding to a block the process delivers the cached personal information via the outbound audio channel used for the phone call or via another communication link.

For example after the user dials a phone number that is answered by an IVR and after the IVR asks the caller to say the caller s account number the user may then select an option on the smartphone to deliver the cached personal information for the user s account number for the called party. In this scenario the smartphone immediately plays back a cached recorded audio file of the user s voice stating his account number to the IVR. In some embodiments the microphone of the smartphone is muted during the audio playback so that background noise will not interfere with the communication if the user is in a noisy environment. In some embodiments the speaker of the smartphone may be silenced so it does not relay the audio information being played back so that others in proximity of the smartphone will not overhear personal information being played back. This way the user can conduct transactions with an IVR while maintaining his privacy. If the information is recorded in a textual format the smartphone can be translate it to audio using a text to speech converter and the synthesized speech can be played on the outgoing audio channel of the phone call.

In some embodiments if a party being called is recognized as being an IVR for which non audio communications are available e.g. by recognition of the number dialed matching a number the cached personal information may be delivered to the IVR using a non audio communications channel. For example the smartphone may open a secured hyper text transfer protocol connection HTTP S with the IVR or an intermediary server e.g. the server which can relay a message to the IVR in which the cached personal information can be delivered to the IVR without the use of the audio channel.

In some embodiments for security purposes the smartphone may perform authentication on the user prior to delivering the personal information to the outside party of the phone conversation. For example it may analyze an audio signal that was recently received on a microphone e.g. spoken by the user for verification that the vocal characteristics match a profile of an authentic user s characteristics or may otherwise utilize voice biometrics for confirming the identity of the user.

In some embodiments the process could utilize a voice to text decoder for the purposes of automatically judging what information the IVR is looking for. For example if the IVR asked What is your name Then the process could use that as a queue to control the timing of when a recorded user name is automatically played to the IVR. Alternately the IVR asking this question might be detected by the process and cause it to present a button on the user interface of the mobile device e.g. on a touchscreen display which the user can if desired press to cause the mobile device to play back a recording of the user s name to the IVR.

The computer telephony system is further detailed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 424 093 filed Mar. 19 2012 entitled Mobile Device Applications for Computer Telephony Systems the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The computer telephony system described therein can be adapted with the phone number based advertising system to combine elements features and capabilities.

The example caller context data includes a data entry specifying Spanish as a preferred language of a caller. This can eliminate the need for the IVR to ask the user of the representative smartphone which language the user prefers to use as well as the need for the user to respond to such a verbal inquiry.

The example caller content data also includes an address location and a latitude and longitude coordinate location . Such locations may be derived from the global positioning system of the representative smartphone or stored location preferences in the smartphone e.g. a home address or business address that may have been recorded by the operating system or an application of the smartphone .

The example IVR preferred preference could be useful to indicate that the user of the smartphone actually wants to communicate with an IVR. For example if the use is driving in a car in traffic the user may not be in a hurry. If the user is familiar with the IVR system the user may prefer to interact with the predictable dialogue provided by the IVR so the user is not inordinately distracted from the task of driving the car by unexpected interactive dialogue that a human agent may ask.

A wide variety of other preferences may be advantageously communicated from the smartphone to the call center or IVR.

Note that call center as referred to herein may be a logical rather than a physical entity. For example the agents servers or other components of the systems logically comprising the call center may not be physically located in one particular location but may be distributed across multiple locations. In some cases the servers and components may be arranged differently than are indicated above. Single components disclosed herein may be implemented as multiple components or some functions indicated to be performed by a certain component of the system may be performed by another component of the system. Further different components may be combined. In various embodiments components on the same machine may communicated between different threads or on the same thread via inter process communication or intra process communications including in some cases such as by marshalling the communications across one process to another including from one machine to another and so on.

Although not required aspects of the disclosed technology are described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as routines executed by a general purpose data processing device e.g. a server computer wireless device smartphone or personal computer. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that aspects of the disclosed technology can be practiced with other communications data processing or computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices including personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers wearable computers all manner of cellular or mobile phones including Voice over IP VoIP phones dumb terminals media players gaming devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like. Indeed the terms computer server host system and the like are generally used interchangeably herein and refer to any of the above devices and systems as well as any data processor.

Aspects of the technology can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one of more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. While aspects of the disclosed technology such as certain functions are described as being performed exclusively on a single device the disclosed technology can also be practiced in distributed environments which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the disclosed technology may be stored or distributed on non transitory computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wires or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM of flash semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Alternatively computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the disclosed technology may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme .

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to . As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description of examples of the disclosed technology is not intended to be exhaustive of to limit the disclosed technology to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples for the disclosed technology are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the disclosed technology as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative implementations may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed or implemented in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosed technology provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the disclosed technology. Some alternative implementations of the disclosed technology may include not only additional elements to those implementations noted above but also may include fewer elements.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosed technology can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further implementations of the disclosed technology.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosed technology in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the disclosed technology and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the disclosed technology can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the disclosed technology disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosed technology with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosed technology to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defined such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosed technology encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

