---

title: Resin composition for forming receiving layer, and receiving substrate; printed matter, conductive pattern, and electric circuit produced by using the resin composition
abstract: An object to be achieved by the present invention is to provide a resin composition for forming a receiving layer, the resin composition being capable of forming, among receiving layers that can carry a fluid such as an ink, a receiving layer having excellent, adhesion to various types of supports and capable of forming a receiving layer which has excellent printing properties without causing bleeding of a fluid such as an ink. The present invention relates to a resin composition for forming a receiving layer, the resin composition containing a urethane resin (A), a vinyl polymer (B), and an aqueous medium (C), in which the urethane resin (A) has an alicyclic structure in an amount of 2,000 to 5,500 mmol/kg relative to the total amount of the urethane resin (A), and a hydrophilic group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784956&OS=08784956&RS=08784956
owner: Dic Corporation
number: 08784956
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120828
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT JP2012 071683 filed on Aug. 28 2012 and claims benefit of priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 197080 filed on Sep. 9 2011. The International Application was published in Japanese on Mar. 14 2013 as WO 2013 035582 A1 under PCT Article 21 2 . The contents of the above applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a resin composition for forming a receiving layer that can receive a fluid such as an ink for example ejected by a printing method such as an ink jet printing method a receiving substrate and printed matter such as a conductive pattern.

Recently in the ink jet printing industry which has been significantly growing the realization of high performance ink jet printers the improvement of inks etc. have markedly progressed and it has become possible to obtain very fine and sharp images which have excellent printing properties and which are substantially equivalent to silver halide prints even in ordinary households. Therefore ink jet printers are not only used in homes but have also started to be used in various fields such as in the production of large advertisement boards.

The improvement in the image quality of ink jet printed matter is mainly achieved by not only the improvement in the performance of printers but also the improvement in printing inks. Specific examples of the improvement in printing inks include studies on the selection of solvents in inks and the selection of dyes or pigments in inks. Recently pigment inks which are known as inks having good color developing properties that are substantially equivalent to those of dye inks have attracted attention.

However even in the case where such a pigment ink having a good color developing property is used it may be difficult to form a printed image having a high color density and excellent printing properties because bleeding of the ink or the like may occur depending on the composition of an ink receiving layer. Furthermore with an increase in the type of ink jet printed matter various materials have been used as a support on which the ink receiving layer is provided. Under this circumstance an existing ink receiving layer may be separated from a support with time because for example the ink receiving layer does not have sufficient adhesion to a plastic film such as a polyethylene terephthalate film.

In addition the use of known printing methods such as the ink jet printing method and a screen printing method has been studied for the purpose of forming a conductive pattern of an electronic circuit or the like. This is because with the recent requirements for improving the performance reducing the size and reducing the thickness of electronic devices an increase in integration density and a reduction in thickness have also been strongly required for electronic circuits and integrated circuits that are used in the electronic devices.

A specific method for producing such a conductive pattern of an electronic circuit or the like includes printing a conductive ink containing a conductive substance such as silver on a surface of a support by an ink jet printing method a screen printing method or the like then drying the conductive ink and performing heating or light irradiation as required.

However even when the conductive ink is printed directly on a surface of a support the conductive ink does not readily adhere to the surface of the support and is easily separated from the support which may result in for example a disconnection in an electronic circuit that is finally obtained. In particular a support composed of a polyimide resin a polyethylene terephthalate resin or the like has flexibility and thus enables the production of flexible devices that can be bent. However in particular an ink a resin or the like does not readily adhere to such a support composed of a polyimide resin or the like and is easily separated from the support which may result in a disconnection in an electronic circuit that is finally obtained and severing of electrical connection.

A known method for solving the above problem is a method for forming a conductive pattern by drawing a pattern on an ink receiving substrate having a latex layer thereon using a conductive ink by a predetermined method. It is known that an acrylic resin can be used as the latex layer refer to PTL 1 .

However an ink receiving layer formed of the latex layer on which the conductive pattern is formed may cause bleeding of a conductive ink unevenness of the printing thickness etc. Accordingly it may be difficult to form a conducting line formed of a fine line having a width of about 0.01 to 200 m which is generally required for realizing an increase in integration density of electronic circuits or the like.

In the formation of the conductive pattern printed matter obtained by performing printing using a conductive ink is usually baked by heating at a temperature of about 80 C. or higher in order to provide the electrical conduction property by bringing conductive substances contained in the conductive ink into contact with each other.

However an ink receiving layer such as the latex layer described in PTL 1 is for example readily degraded by the effect of heat received in the baking step. Thus in particular the adhesion at the interface between the ink receiving layer and the support tends to decrease and separation tends to occur even when a very small force is applied.

In addition during the baking step the latex layer serving as the ink receiving layer tends to be excessively swollen and deformed. Consequently a disconnection in an electric circuit or the like and the failure of an electrical connection may occur. In addition since the latex layer usually does not have sufficient adhesion to the support before the heating in the baking step is performed the support may be partially separated from the ink receiving layer before the baking step.

In the formation of the conductive pattern a plating process is often performed on the surface of the conductive pattern using copper or another metal from the standpoint of forming a highly reliable wiring pattern that can maintain a good electrical conduction property without the occurrence of a disconnection or the like for a long time.

However chemical agents for plating the chemical agents used in the plating process and chemical agents used in a washing step of the plating process are usually strongly alkaline or acidic and thus these chemical agents readily cause for example separation of the receiving layer etc. from the support. As a result for example a disconnection in the conductive pattern may be caused.

Accordingly it is desired for the conductive pattern to have durability of such a level that the conductive ink receiving layer does not become separated from the support even when the conductive pattern is repeatedly immersed in the chemical agents and the like for a long time.

An object to be achieved by the present invention is to provide a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition being capable of forming among receiving layers that can carry a fluid such as an ink a receiving layer having excellent adhesion to various types of supports and capable of forming a receiving layer which has excellent printing properties without causing bleeding of a fluid such as an ink.

A second object to be achieved by the present invention is to provide a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition being capable of forming among receiving layers that can carry a fluid such as a conductive ink a receiving layer having excellent adhesion to a support having a fine line forming property of drawing a fine line at such a level that for example an increase in integration density of electronic circuits or the like is realized without causing bleeding and repellency of the fluid and capable of forming printed matter such as a conductive pattern having durability of such a level that a good electrical conduction property can be maintained without causing for example separation of a receiving layer from a support even in the case where chemical agents such as chemical agents for plating and various organic solvents adhere to the printed matter.

As a result of studies conducted in order to achieve the above objects the inventors of the present invention found that the objects of the present invention can be achieved by using a specific polyurethane and a vinyl polymer in combination.

Specifically the present invention relates to a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition containing a urethane resin A a vinyl polymer B and an aqueous medium C in which the urethane resin. A has an alicyclic structure in an amount of 2 000 to 5 500 mmol kg relative to the total amount of the urethane resin A and a hydrophilic group.

According to the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer it is possible to form a receiving layer having excellent adhesion to various types of supports and to form a printed image having excellent printing properties with a good color developing property without causing bleeding and the like of a fluid such as a pigment ink. Accordingly the resin composition for forming a receiving layer can be used in for example recording medium used for producing an advertisement a signboard a sign etc. that can be installed indoors or outdoors.

Furthermore according to the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer it is possible to form a receiving layer having excellent adhesion between a receiving layer and a support it is possible to provide a fine line forming property of drawing a fine line without causing bleeding of a conductive ink at such a level that for example an increase in integration density of electronic circuits or the like can be realized and it is possible to form a receiving layer having excellent durability. Accordingly the resin composition for forming a receiving layer can be generally used in new fields such as a printed electronics field for example in the formation of an electronic circuit using for example a conductive ink containing a conductive substance such as silver the formation of layers and peripheral wiring that are included in an organic solar cell an electronic book terminal an organic electroluminescence EL device an organic transistor a flexible printed circuit board radio frequency identification RFID such as a non contact IC card etc. and the production of wiring of an electromagnetic wave shield an integrated circuit an organic transistor of a plasma display etc.

Regarding a receiving layer formed using the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer a fluid such as a conductive ink or a plating nucleus agent is printed on a receiving substrate of the present invention and a cross linked structure is then formed in the resulting ink receiving layer by heating or the like whereby printed matter a plating structure having durability at a higher level can be obtained. Specifically it is possible to obtain printed matter a plating structure having durability of such a level that detachment of a conductive substance or the like contained in the fluid Thorn the surface of the receiving layer can be prevented in the plating process.

A resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer contains a urethane resin A having an alicyclic structure in an amount of 2 000 to 5 500 mmol kg relative to the total amount of the urethane resin A and a hydrophilic group a vinyl polymer B an aqueous medium C and if necessary other additives.

In particular the resin composition for forming a receiving layer can be used for forming a receiving layer that absorbs a solvent in a fluid containing a conductive substance a pigment or the like when the fluid contacts the receiving layer and that carries the conductive substance or the pigment.

The urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B contained in the resin composition for forming a receiving layer may be independently present in the aqueous medium C or may be present in the aqueous medium C in the form of a composite resin particle D .

The term composite resin particle D specifically refers to a particle in which some or all of the vinyl polymer B is present in a resin particle composed of the urethane resin A . In this case the vinyl polymer B may be dispersed in the urethane resin A in the form of plural particles. Preferably the urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B form a core shell composite resin particle including the vinyl polymer B serving as a core layer and the urethane resin A having the hydrophilic group and serving as a shell layer. In particular in the case where a conductive pattern is formed the core shell composite resin particle is preferably used because a surfactant which may decrease electrical properties need not be used. In the composite resin particle D preferably the vinyl polymer B is substantially completely covered with the urethane resin A but this structure is not essential. Some of the vinyl polymer B may be present in the outermost part of the composite resin particle D as long as the effects of the present invention are not impaired.

In the case where the vinyl polymer B is more hydrophilic than the urethane resin A the composite resin particle D may be a composite resin particle in which some or all of the urethane resin IQ is present in a resin particle composed of the vinyl polymer B .

The urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B may form a covalent bond. However preferably the urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B do not form a bond.

From the standpoint of maintaining good water dispersion stability the composite resin particles D preferably has an average particle diameter in the range of 5 to 100 nm. Herein the term average particle diameter refers to an average particle diameter on a volume basis measured by a dynamic light scattering method as described in Examples below.

The resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer contains the urethane resin A and the vinyl resin B preferably in the range of urethane resin A vinyl resin B 90 10 to 10 90 and more preferably in the range of 70 30 to 10 90.

The resin composition for forming a receiving layer of the present invention does not simply contain the urethane resin and the vinyl polymer B . It is important to use as the urethane resin A a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in an amount of 2 000 to 5 500 mmol kg and a hydrophilic group.

In a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition being obtained by using instead of the urethane resin A a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in an amount of 1 800 mmol kg relative to the urethane resin A a receiving layer having excellent adhesion to various types of supports etc. may not be formed. In a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition being obtained by using a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in an amount of 1 800 mmol kg for example in a plating process described below the resulting receiving layer may be separated from a support by the influence of a chemical agent for plating which is a strongly alkaline or strongly acidic substance and thus durability may be significantly decreased.

On the other hand in a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition being obtained by using instead of the urethane resin A a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in an amount of 6 000 mmol kg similarly to the above case a receiving layer having excellent adhesion to a support and excellent durability in the plating process may not be formed.

Accordingly a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in an amount of 3 000 to 5 000 mmol kg relative to the total amount of the urethane resin A is preferably used as the urethane resin A from the standpoint of improving the adhesion in particular preventing the receiving layer from being separated from a support in the plating process and improving durability.

Examples of the alicyclic structure include a cyclobutyl group a cyclopentyl group a cyclohexyl group a cycloheptyl group a cyclooctyl group a propylcyclohexyl group a tricyclo 5.2.1.0.2.6 decyl group a bicyclo 4.3.0 nonyl group a tricyclo 5.3.1.1 dodecyl group a propyltricyclo 5.3.1.1 dodecyl group a norbornene group an isobornyl group a dicyclopentanyl group and an adamantyl group. Among these a cyclohexyl group a norbornene group an isobornyl group and an adamantyl group are preferable from the standpoint of obtaining printed matter such as a conductive pattern having excellent durability.

The alicyclic structure can be introduced into the urethane resin A by using an alicyclic structure containing polyisocyanate and or an alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 as a polyisocyanate a1 and a polyol a2 respectively which are used in the production of the urethane resin A . A urethane resin having an alicyclic structure derived from the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 is preferably used and a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure derived from an alicyclic structure containing polyisocyanate and an alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 is particularly preferable from the standpoint of significantly improving adhesion of the receiving layer to various types of supports. In particular the above described resin composition for forming a receiving layer is preferable because durability can be improved to such a level that the resulting receiving layer is not separated from a support even in the case where the support is immersed in a chemical agent for plating which is a strongly alkaline or strongly acidic substance in a plating process described bellow.

From the standpoint of providing good water dispersion stability in the aqueous medium C it is necessary to use a urethane resin having a hydrophilic group as the urethane resin A .

The hydrophilic group may be for example an anionic group a cationic group or a nonionic group. An anionic group is more preferably used.

Examples of the anionic group that can be used include a carboxyl group a carboxylate group a sulfonic acid group and a sulfonate group. Among these carboxylate groups or sulfonate groups some or all of which are neutralized by a basic compound or the like are preferably used from the standpoint of providing good water dispersibility.

Examples of the basic compound that can be used for neutralizing the anionic group include ammonia organic amines such as triethylamine pyridine and morpholine alkanolamines such as monoethanolamine and metal basic compounds containing for example sodium potassium lithium or calcium. In the case where a conductive pattern or the like is formed the organic amines and alkanolamines are preferably used because the metal salt compounds may degrade the electrical conduction property.

In the case where a carboxylate group or a sultanate group is used as the anionic group the carboxylate group or the sulfonate group is present preferably in the range of 5 to 4 000 mmol kg and more preferably 50 to 2 000 mmol kg relative to the total amount of the urethane resin A from the standpoint of maintaining good water dispersion stability of particles of the urethane resin A .

Examples of an acid that can be used for neutralizing some or all of the tertiary amino groups include organic acids such as acetic acid propionic acid lactic acid and maleic acid organic sulfonic acids such as sulfonic acid and methanesulfonic acid and inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid orthophosphoric acid and orthophosphorous acid. These acids may be used alone or in combination of two or more acids. In the case where a conductive pattern or the like is formed acetic acid propionic acid lactic acid maleic acid etc. are preferably used because chlorine sulfur etc. may degrade the electrical conduction property.

Examples of the nonionic group that can be used include polyoxyalkylene groups such as a polyoxyethylene group a polyoxypropylene group a polyoxybutylene group a poly oxyethylene oxypropylene group and a polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene group. Among these polyoxyalkylene groups having an oxyethylene unit are preferably used from the standpoint of further improving hydrophilicity.

The urethane resin A can be produced by reacting the polyisocyanate a1 the polyol a2 and as required a chain extender.

Examples of the polyisocyanate a1 that can be used include polyisocyanates having an aromatic structure such as 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate 2 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate carbodiimide modified diphenylmethane diisocyanate crude diphenylmethane diisocyanate phenylene diisocyanate tolylene diisocyanate and naphthalene diisocyanate aliphatic polyisocyanates and polyisocyanates having an alicyclic structure such as hexamethylene diisocyanate lysine diisocyanate cyclohexane diisocyanate isophorone diisocyanate dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate xylylene diisocyanate and tetramethylxylylene diisocyanate. Among these polyisocyanates having an alicyclic structure are preferably used.

As the polyol a2 that can react with the polyisocyanate a1 a hydrophilic group containing polyol a2 1 is essentially used. If necessary an alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 and another polyol a2 3 may be used in combination.

Examples of the hydrophilic group containing polyol a2 1 that can be used include polyols having a carboxyl group such as 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 2 2 dimethylolbutanoic acid 2 2 dimethylolbutyric acid and 2 2 dimethylolvaleric acid and polyols having a sulfonic acid group such as 5 sulfoisophthalic acid sulfoterephthalic acid 4 sulfophthalic acid and 5 4 sulfophenoxy isophthalic acid it is also possible to use as the polyol having a hydrophilic group for example polyester polyols having a hydrophilic group the polyester polyols being obtained by reacting the above low molecular weight polyol having a hydrophilic group with a polycarboxylic acid such as adipic acid.

The hydrophilic group is preferably present in the range of 5 to 4 000 mmol kg and more preferably in the range of 5 to 2 000 mmol kg relative to the total amount of the polyol a2 used in the production of the urethane resin A .

From the standpoint of introducing a predetermined amount of alicyclic structure into the urethane resin A the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 is preferably used as the polyol a2 .

Examples of such an alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 include alicyclic structure containing polyols each having a relatively low molecular weight such as 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol cyclobutanediol cyclopentanediol 1 4 cyclohexanediol cycloheptanediol cyclooctanediol cyclohexanedimethanol tricyclo 5.2.1.0.2.6 decanedimethanol bicyclo 4.3.0 nonanediol dicyclohexanediol tricyclo 5.3.1.1 dodecanediol bicyclo 4.3.0 nonanedimethanol tricyclo 5.3.1.1 dodecanediethanol spiro 3.4 octanediol butylcyclohexanediol 1 1 bicyclohexylidenediol cyclohexanetriol hydrogenated bisphenol A and 1 3 adamantanediol. Note that the molecular weight of the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 is based on the formula weight.

As the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 in addition to the polyols described above polyols obtained by reacting an alicyclic structure containing polycarboxylic acid with an aliphatic polyol may also be used.

Examples of the alicyclic structure containing polycarboxylic acid that can be used include 1 3 cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid 1 2 cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid 1 3 cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid 1 4 cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid anhydrides thereof and ester forming derivatives thereof. Among these alicyclic structure containing polycarboxylic acids such as 1 2 cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid and 1 4 cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid are preferably used.

Examples of the polyol that can be used in the esterification reaction with the alicyclic structure containing polycarboxylic acid include not only 1 6 hexanediol described above but also aliphatic polyols such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol 1 2 propylene glycol 1 3 propylene glycol dipropylene glycol 1 4 butanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 2 butanediol 2 3 butanediol 1 5 pentanediol 1 5 hexanediol 2 5 hexanediol 1 6 hexanediol 1 7 heptanediol 1 8 octanediol 1 9 nonanediol 1 10 decanediol neopentyl glycol 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol and 2 methyl 1 3 propanediol. These aliphatic polyols may be used in combination with the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 and the polycarboxylic acid when an esterification reaction between the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 and the polycarboxylic acid is conducted.

As the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 for example an alicyclic structure containing polycarbonate polyol can be used. Examples of the alicyclic structure containing polycarbonate polyol that can be used include polycarbonate polyols obtained by a reaction between the alicyclic structure containing polyol a1 1 having a low molecular weight and dimethyl carbonate phosgene or another compound.

An alicyclic structure containing polycarbonate polyol having a number average molecular weight preferably in the range of 800 to 3 000 and more preferably in the range of 800 to 2 000 is used as the alicyclic structure containing polycarbonate polyol.

As the alicyclic structure containing polyol a2 2 for example an alicyclic structure containing polyether polyol can be used. Examples of the alicyclic structure containing polyether polyol that can be used include polyether polyols obtained by addition polymerization of an alkylene oxide such as ethylene oxide or propylene oxide using as an initiator the alicyclic structure containing polyol a1 1 having a low molecular weight.

In addition to the polyols described above if necessary another polyol a2 3 may be used as the polyol a2 .

Examples of the other polyol a2 3 that can be used include polyester polyols polyether polyols polycarbonate polyols etc. other than the polyols described above.

Examples of the polyester polyols that can be used include aliphatic polyester polyols and aromatic polyester polyols obtained by an esterification reaction between a polyol having a low molecular weight and a polycarboxylic acid polyesters obtained by a ring opening polymerization reaction of a cyclic ester compound such as caprolactone or butyrolactone and copolymerized polyesters of these.

Examples of the polyol that has a low molecular weight and that can be used in the production of the polyester polyols include ethylene glycol 1 2 propanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol 1 6 hexanediol 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol neopentyl glycol diethylene glycol dipropylene glycol glycerol and trimethylolpropane. These polyols may be used alone or in combination of two or more polyols. Ethylene glycol 1 2 propanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol etc. are preferably used in combination with 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol neopentyl glycol etc.

Examples of the polycarboxylic acid that can be used include succinic acid adipic acid sebacic acid dodecanedicarboxylic acid azelaic acid terephthalic acid isophthalic acid phthalic acid naphthalene dicarboxylic acid anhydrides thereof and ester forming derivatives thereof. Aliphatic polycarboxylic acids such as adipic acid are preferably used. In the case where the polyester polyols having an aromatic ring structure are used aromatic polycarboxylic acids such as terephthalic acid isophthalic acid phthalic acid and naphthalene dicarboxylic acid can be used as the polycarboxylic acid.

Examples of the polyether polyols that can be used as the other polyol a2 3 further include polyether polyols obtained by addition polymerization of an alkylene oxide using as an initiator at least one compound having two or more active hydrogen atoms.

Examples of the initiator that can be used include ethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol propylene glycol trimethylene glycol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol 1 6 hexanediol neopentyl glycol glycerol trimethylolethane and trimethylolpropane.

Examples of the alkylene oxide that can be used include ethylene oxide propylene oxide butylene oxide styrene oxide epichlorohydrin and tetrahydrofuran.

Examples of the polycarbonate polyols that can be used as the other polyol a2 3 include polycarbonate polyols obtained by a reaction between a carbonic acid ester and a polyol and polycarbonate polyols obtained by a reaction between phosgene and bisphenol A or another compound.

Examples of the carbonic acid ester that can be used include methyl carbonate dimethyl carbonate ethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate cyclocarbonate and diphenyl carbonate.

Examples of the polyol that can react with the carbonic acid ester include dihydroxy compounds having a relatively low molecular weight such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol 1 2 propylene glycol 1 3 propylene glycol dipropylene glycol 1 4 butanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 2 butanediol 2 3 butanediol 1 5 pentanediol 1 5 hexanediol 2 5 hexanediol 1 6 hexanediol 1 7 heptanediol 1 8 octanediol 1 9 nonanediol 1 10 decanediol 1 11 undecanediol 1 12 dodecanediol 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol 2 ethyl 1 3 hexanediol 2 methyl 1 3 propanediol 2 methyl 1 8 octanediol 2 butyl 2 ethylpropanediol 2 methyl 1 8 octanediol neopentyl glycol hydroquinone resorcin bisphenol A bisphenol F and 4 4 biphenol polyether polyols such as polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol and polytetramethylene glycol and polyester polyols such as polyhexamethylene adipate polyhexamethylene succinate and polycaprolactone.

As the polyester polyols the polyether polyols and the polycarbonate polyols polyols having a number average molecular weight in the range of 500 to 4 000 are preferably used from the standpoint of the ease of mixing with the matrix resin and polyols having a number average molecular weight in the range of 500 to 1 500 are more preferably used.

Examples of the other polyol a2 3 include in addition to the above polyester polyols polyether polyols and polycarbonate polyols hydrophilic group containing polyols such as ethylene glycol 1 2 propanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol 1 6 hexanediol 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol neopentyl glycol diethylene glycol dipropylene glycol glycerol trimethylolpropane and dimethylol propionic acid acrylic polyols obtained by introducing hydroxyl groups into acrylic copolymers polybutadiene polyols which are copolymers of butadiene having a hydroxyl group in its molecule hydrogenated polybutadiene polyols and partially saponified products of ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers. These polyols can be appropriately used as required.

In producing the urethane resin A for example polyamines and active hydrogen atom containing compounds can be used as the chain extender.

Examples of the polyamine that can be used include diamines such as ethylenediamine 1 2 propanediamine 1 6 hexamethylenediamine piperazine 2 5 dimethylpiperazine isophoronediamine 4 4 dicyclohexylmethanediamine 3 3 dimethyl 4 4 dicyclohexylmethanediamine and 1 4 cyclohexanediamine N hydroxymethylaminoethylamine N hydroxyethylaminoethylamine N hydroxypropylaminopropylamine N ethylaminoethylamine and N methylaminopropylamine diethylenetriamine dipropylenetriamine and triethylenetetramine hydrazine N N dimethylhydrazine and 1 6 hexamethylenebishydrazine succinic acid dihydrazide adipic acid dihydrazide glutaric acid dihydrazide sebacic acid dihydrazide and isophthalic acid dihydrazide and semicarbazide propionic acid hydrazide 3 semicarbazide propyl carbazate and semicarbazide 3 semicarbazidemethyl 3 5 5 trimethylcyclohexane. Among these ethylenediamine is preferably used.

Examples of the active hydrogen atom containing compound that can be used include glycols such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 3 propanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol hexamethylene glycol saccharose methylene glycol glycerol and sorbitol phenols such as bisphenol A 4 4 dihydroxydiphenyl 4 4 dihydroxydiphenyl ether 4 4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone hydrogenated bisphenol A and hydroquinone and water.

The chain extender is used so that for example an equivalent ratio of amino groups in a polyamine to excess isocyanate groups is preferably 1.9 or less equivalent ratio and more preferably in the range of 0.3 to 1.0 equivalent ratio .

The urethane resin A can be produced by for example reacting the polyisocyanate a1 the polyol a2 and as required the chain extender to each other in the absence of a solvent or in the presence of an organic solvent by a known method.

The reaction between the polyisocyanate a1 and the polyol a2 is conducted at a reaction temperature of preferably 50 C. to 120 C. and more preferably 80 C. to 100 C. while sufficient care is taken with sudden heat generation foaming etc. in consideration of safety. The polyisocyanate a1 and the polyol a2 are mixed at one time or one of the polyisocyanate a1 and the polyol a2 is successively supplied to the other by for example dropping and the reaction is conducted for about 1 to 15 hours.

An aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A can be prepared as follows. The polyisocyanate a1 the polyol a2 and as required a chain extender are reacted to each other by the method described above to produce a urethane resin A . Some or all of the hydrophilic groups such as anionic groups of the urethane resin A are neutralized as required and the resulting urethane resin A is then mixed with an aqueous medium C . Thus a urethane resin A aqueous dispersion in which the urethane resin A is dispersed in the aqueous medium C or the urethane resin A is partially dissolved in the aqueous medium C can be obtained.

Specifically the polyisocyanate a1 is reacted with the polyol a2 by the method described above to produce a urethane prepolymer A having an isocyanate group at an end thereof. Some or all of the hydrophilic groups such as anionic groups of the urethane prepolymer A are neutralized as required and the resulting product is then mixed with an aqueous medium C . If necessary chain extension is conducted with the chain extender. Thus a urethane resin A aqueous dispersion in which the urethane resin A is dispersed or dissolved in the aqueous medium C can be obtained.

The reaction between the polyisocyanate a1 and the polyol a2 is preferably conducted so that for example an equivalent ratio isocyanate group X hydroxyl group Y of isocyanate groups X in the polyisocyanate a1 to hydroxyl groups Y in the polyol a2 is in the range of 0.90 to 2.0.

In producing the urethane resin A as described above an organic solvent may be used as a solvent. Examples of the organic solvent include ketones such as acetone and methyl ethyl ketone ethers such as tetrahydrofuran and dioxane acetic acid esters such as ethyl acetate and butyl acetate nitriles such as acetonitrile and amides such as dimethylformamide and N methylpyrrolidone. These organic solvents may be used alone or in combination of two or more solvents. The organic solvent is preferably removed by distillation or another method after the urethane resin A or the composite resin particles D are produced.

As the urethane resin A produced by the above method a urethane resin having a weight average molecular weight of preferably 5 000 to 500 000 and more preferably 20 000 to 100 000 is used in order to obtain for example printed matter having excellent adhesion and excellent printing properties and a conductive pattern having an excellent fine line forming property and excellent durability.

The urethane resin A produced by the above method may have a functional group as required. Examples of the functional group include cross linkable functional groups such as an alkoxysilyl group a silanol group a hydroxyl group and an amino group.

The alkoxysilyl group or the silanol group can be introduced into the polyurethane A by using aminopropyltriethoxysilane or the like in producing the urethane resin A .

As the cross linkable functional groups it is possible to use functional groups that react with each other to form a cross linked structure or that react with a cross linking agent E described below to form a cross linked structure by being heated to about 100 C. or higher and preferably 120 C. or higher.

Specifically in the case where a urethane resin having a functional group that can undergo a cross linking reaction by being heated to about 100 C. or higher and preferably 120 C. or higher is used a receiving layer that is included in a receiving substrate obtained by applying a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition containing the urethane resin onto a surface of a support and drying the resin composition does not substantially form a cross linked structure. When printing is performed on this receiving substrate using the fluid and heating or the like is then performed the receiving layer undergoes a cross linking reaction and can form a cross linked structure. Thus it is possible to form printed matter a conductive pattern and the like which have excellent durability and in which a receiving layer is not separated from a support even when the receiving substrate is exposed to a chemical agent for plating the chemical agent being a strongly alkaline or strongly acidic substance in a plating process described below.

For example in the case where a cross linking agent such as a blocked isocyanate compound is used the functional group that can undergo a cross linking reaction by being heated to 100 C. or higher and preferably 120 C. or higher may be a hydroxyl group or an amino group though the type of functional group depends on the selection of the cross linking agent E used in combination.

The cross linkable functional group is preferably contained in total in the range of 0.005 to 1.5 equivalent kg relative to the total amount of the urethane resin A .

Next the vinyl polymer B used in the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer will be described.

It is important to use the vinyl polymer B in order to obtain printed matter such as a conductive pattern having an excellent fine line forming property.

A vinyl polymer having a glass transition temperature of 10 C. to 70 C. is preferably used as the vinyl polymer B in order to form printed matter having excellent printing properties in particular an excellent fine line forming property. Note that the glass transition temperature of the vinyl polymer B is a value determined by a calculation on the basis of the composition of vinyl monomers used in the production of the vinyl polymer B . Specifically a vinyl polymer having the above predetermined glass transition temperature can be obtained by using vinyl monomers in combination as described below.

In addition a vinyl polymer having a glass transition temperature of 10 C. to 40 C. is preferably used from the standpoint of providing a good film forming property of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer when the receiving layer is formed and providing blocking resistance of such a level that adhesion with time does not occur between the receiving layer and the back surface of a support which is included in a receiving substrate when the receiving substrate is wound around a roll or the like or when receiving substrates are stacked.

A vinyl polymer having a weight average molecular weight of preferably 800 000 or more and more preferably 1 000 000 or more is used as the vinyl polymer B in order to form printed matter that has no bleeding and that has excellent printing properties. This also applies in order to form a receiving layer of a fluid such as a conductive ink in which bleeding does not occur and which has an excellent fine line forming property.

The upper limit of the weight average molecular weight of the vinyl polymer B is not particularly limited but is preferably 10 000 000 or less and more preferably 5 000 000 or less.

The vinyl polymer B may have a functional group as required. Examples of the functional group include cross linkable functional groups such as an amide group a hydroxyl group a glycidyl group an amino group a silyl group an aziridinyl group an isocyanate group an oxazoline group a cyclopentenyl group an allyl group a carboxyl group and an acetoacetyl group.

When printing is performed on the receiving substrate using a fluid such as an ink and heating or the like is then performed the cross linkable functional group undergoes a cross linking reaction to form a cross linked structure. Thus it is possible to form printed matter such as a conductive pattern having excellent durability in which dissolution separation and the like of a receiving layer does not occur and a good electrical conduction property can be maintained even when for example a chemical agent for plating or a solvent such as a cleaning agent adheres to the receiving substrate.

It is preferable to use as the cross linkable functional group a functional group that undergoes a cross linking reaction to form the cross linked structure by being heated to about 100 C. or higher and preferably 120 C. or higher. Specifically at least one thermally cross linkable functional group selected from the group consisting of a methylolamide group and alkoxymethylamide groups is preferably used.

Specific examples of the alkoxymethylamide group include amide groups formed by bonding a methoxymethyl group an ethoxymethyl group a propoxymethyl group a butoxymethyl group or the like to a nitrogen atom.

In the case where a cross linking agent E described below is used for example a hydroxyl group or a carboxyl group is preferably used as the cross linkable functional group. In the case where conditions for forming a receiving layer can be sufficiently controlled an amino group may also be used.

Among the vinyl polymers described above vinyl polymers having at least one selected from the group consisting of a methylolamide group and alkoxymethylamide groups are preferably used as the vinyl polymer B from the standpoint of significantly improving durability of the receiving layer and adhesion of the receiving layer to various types of supports.

Various vinyl polymers can be used as the vinyl polymer B . For example vinyl polymers obtained by radical polymerization of a known vinyl monomer can be used.

Examples of the vinyl monomer that can be used for producing the vinyl polymer B include meth acrylic acid esters such as methyl meth acrylate ethyl meth acrylate n butyl meth acrylate i butyl meth acrylate t butyl meth acrylate 2 ethylhexyl meth acrylate hexyl meth acrylate cyclohexyl meth acrylate octyl meth acrylate nonyl meth acrylate dodecyl meth acrylate stearyl meth acrylate isobornyl meth acrylate dicyclopentanyl meth acrylate phenyl meth acrylate and benzyl meth acrylate and meth acrylic acid alkyl esters such as 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl meth acrylate 2 2 3 3 pentafluoropropyl meth acrylate perfluorocyclohexyl meth acrylate 2 2 3 3 tetrafluoropropyl meth acrylate and perfluorooctyl ethyl meth acrylate.

Among the vinyl monomers methyl methacrylate is preferably used from the standpoint of enabling a fine line having a width of about 0.01 to 200 m and preferably about 0.01 to 150 m which is required for forming a conductive pattern of an electronic circuit or the like to be printed without causing bleeding i.e. improving a fine line forming property . In addition methyl methacrylate is preferably used from the standpoint of for example providing excellent adhesion between the receiving layer and the support regardless of the influence of heat etc. in a baking step or another step in the preparation of a conductive pattern.

A meth acrylic acid alkyl ester having an alkyl group having 2 to 12 carbon atoms is preferably used together with methyl methacrylate. An acrylic acid alkyl ester having an alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms is more preferably used and n butyl acrylate is still more preferably used from the standpoint of obtaining printed matter having excellent printing properties. The use of these compounds is also particularly preferable from the standpoint of forming a conductive pattern which has an excellent fine line forming property and does not have bleeding or the like in the case where a conductive ink is used.

Examples of the vinyl monomer that can be used in producing the vinyl polymer B include in addition to the vinyl monomers described above vinyl monomers having a carboxyl group such as acrylic acid methacrylic acid carboxyethyl meth acrylate 2 meth acryloyl propionic acid crotonic acid itaconic acid maleic acid fumaric acid itaconic acid half ester maleic acid half ester maleic anhydride itaconic anhydride and meth acryloyl oxyethyl hydrogen succinate. The vinyl monomers having a carboxyl group may be neutralized with ammonia potassium hydroxide or the like.

As the other vinyl monomers vinyl monomers having a cross linkable functional group can be used from the standpoint of introducing into the vinyl polymer B the cross linkable functional group such as at least one amide group selected from the group consisting of a methylolamide group and alkoxymethylamide groups an amide group other than the above amide groups a hydroxyl group a glycidyl group an amino group a silyl group an aziridinyl group an isocyanate group an oxazoline group a cyclopentenyl group an allyl group a carbonyl group or an acetoacetyl group.

Examples of the vinyl monomer having at least one amide group selected from the group consisting of a methylolamide group and alkoxymethylamide groups the vinyl monomer being capable of being used as the vinyl monomer having a cross linkable functional group include N methylol meth acrylamide N methoxymethyl meth acrylamide N methoxyethoxymethyl meth acrylamide N ethoxymethyl meth acrylamide N propoxymethyl meth acrylamide N isopropoxymethyl meth acrylamide N n butoxymethyl meth acrylamide N isobutoxymethyl meth acrylamide N pentoxymethyl meth acrylamide N ethoxymethyl N methoxymethyl meth acrylamide N N dimethylol meth acrylamide N ethoxymethyl N propoxymethyl meth acrylamide N N dipropoxymethyl meth acrylamide N butoxymethyl N propoxymethyl meth acrylamide N N dibutoxymethyl meth acrylamide N butoxymethyl N methoxymethyl meth acrylamide N N dipentoxymethyl meth acrylamide and N methoxymethyl N pentoxymethyl meth acrylamide.

Among these N n butoxymethyl meth acrylamide and N isobutoxymethyl meth acrylamide are preferably used from the standpoint of obtaining printed matter having excellent printing properties and excellent durability a conductive pattern having an excellent fine line forming property and excellent durability etc.

Examples of the vinyl monomers having a cross linkable functional group include in addition to the vinyl monomers described above vinyl monomers having an amide group such as meth acrylamide vinyl monomers having a hydroxyl group such as 2 hydroxyethyl meth acrylate 2 hydroxypropyl meth acrylate 2 hydroxybutyl meth acrylate 4 hydroxybutyl meth acrylate 6 hydroxyhexyl meth acrylate 4 hydroxymethylcyclohexyl methyl meth acrylate glycerol meth acrylate polyethylene glycol meth acrylate and N hydroxyethyl meth acrylamide polymerizable monomers having a glycidyl group such as glycidyl meth acrylate and allylglycidyl ether meth acrylate polymerizable monomers having an amino group such as aminoethyl meth acrylate dimethylaminoethyl meth acrylate N monoalkylaminoalkyl meth acrylate and N N dialkylaminoalkyl meth acrylate polymerizable monomers having a silyl group such as vinyltrichlorosilane vinyltrimethoxysilane vinyltriethoxysilane vinyltris methoxyethoxy silane meth acryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane meth acryloxypropyltriethoxysilane meth acryloxypropylmethyldimethoxysilane meth acryloxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane meth acryloxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane N N vinylbenzylaminoethyl aminopropyltrimethoxysilane and hydrochlorides thereof polymerizable monomers having an aziridinyl group such as 2 aziridinylethyl meth acrylate polymerizable monomers having an isocyanate group and or a blocked isocyanate group such as meth acryloyl isocyanate and a phenol or methyl ethyl ketoxime adduct of ethyl meth acryloylisocyanate polymerizable monomers having an oxazoline group such as 2 isopropenyl 2 oxazoline and 2 vinyl 2 oxazoline polymerizable monomers having a cyclopentenyl group such as dicyclopentenyl meth acrylate polymerizable monomers having an allyl group such as allyl meth acrylate and polymerizable monomers having a carbonyl group such as acrolein and diacetone meth acrylamide.

Examples of the vinyl monomers that can be used include in addition to the vinyl monomers described above vinyl acetate vinyl propionate vinyl butyrate vinyl versatate methyl vinyl ether ethyl vinyl ether propyl vinyl ether butyl vinyl ether amyl vinyl ether hexyl vinyl ether meth acrylonitrile styrene methylstyrene vinyl toluene vinylanisole halostyrene vinyl naphthalene divinylstyrene isoprene chloroprene butadiene ethylene tetrafluoroethylene vinylidene fluoride N vinylpyrrolidone polyethylene glycol mono meth acrylate glycerol mono meth acrylate vinyl sulfonic acid styrene sulfonic acid allyl sulfonic acid 2 methylallyl sulfonic acid 2 sulfoethyl meth acrylate 2 sulfopropyl meth acrylate and ADEKA REASOAP PP 70 and PPE 710 manufactured by ADEKA Corporation and salts thereof.

As the vinyl monomers having a cross linkable functional group as described above N butoxymethyl meth acrylamide and N isobutoxymethyl meth acrylamide which undergo a self cross linking reaction by for example being heated are preferably used alone. Alternatively N butoxymethyl meth acrylamide and N isobutoxymethyl meth acrylamide are preferably used in combination with meth acrylamide or a vinyl monomer having a hydroxyl group such as 2 hydroxyethyl meth acrylate or 4 hydroxybutyl meth acrylate.

In the case where a cross linking agent E described below is used 2 hydroxyethyl meth acrylate 2 hydroxypropyl meth acrylate and 4 hydroxybutyl meth acrylate are more preferably used from the standpoint of introducing a functional group e.g. a hydroxyl group which can serve as a cross linking point with the cross linking agent E . The use of the vinyl monomers having a hydroxyl group is preferable in the case where an isocyanate cross linking agent is used as the cross linking agent E described below.

The vinyl monomer having a cross linkable functional group can be used in the range of 0 to 50 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomer mixture. In the case where the cross linking agent E undergoes a self cross linking reaction or in the case where the cross linking agent E reacts with a cross linkable functional group that can be contained in the urethane resin A the vinyl monomer having a cross linkable functional group may not be used.

Among the vinyl monomers having a cross linkable functional group the vinyl monomer having an amide group is preferably used in the range of 0.1 to 50 by mass and more preferably in the range of 1 to 30 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomer mixture from the standpoint of introducing a self cross linking reactive methylolamide group or the like. Another vinyl monomer having an amide group used in combination with the self cross linking reactive methylolamide group and the vinyl monomer having a hydroxyl group are preferably used in the range of 0.1 to 30 by mass and more preferably in the range of 1 to 20 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomers.

Among the vinyl monomers having a cross linkable functional group the vinyl monomer having a hydroxyl group is used preferably in the range of about 0.05 to 50 by mass more preferably about 0.05 to 30 by mass and still more preferably about 0.1 to 10 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomer mixture though the amount depends on for example the type of cross linking agent E that is used in combination.

The meth acrylic acid alkyl esters is preferably used in the range of 30 to 95 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomer mixture used in the production of the vinyl polymer B . In particular methyl meth acrylate is preferably used in the range of 10 to 70 by mass and more preferably 30 to 65 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomer mixture. In addition an acrylic acid alkyl ester having an alkyl group having 2 to 12 carbon atoms and preferably an acrylic acid alkyl ester having an alkyl group having 3 to 8 carbon atoms and more preferably butyl meth acrylate is used in the range of 10 to 50 by mass.

The vinyl polymer B can be produced by polymerizing a mixture of the vinyl monomers described above by a known method. An emulsion polymerization method is preferably employed as means for obtaining a high molecular weight polymer that can form a receiving layer capable of forming printed matter that does not have bleeding and that has excellent printing properties and an excellent fine line forming property.

Examples of the emulsion polymerization method that can be used include a method in which water a vinyl monomer mixture a polymerization initiator and as required a chain transfer agent an emulsifier a dispersion stabilizer etc. are supplied in a reaction vessel at one time mixed and polymerized a monomer dropping method in which a vinyl monomer mixture is added dropwise into a reaction vessel and polymerized and a pre emulsion method in which a mixture prepared by mixing a vinyl monomer mixture an emulsifier or the like and water in advance is added dropwise into a reaction vessel and polymerized.

The temperature in the emulsion polymerization is preferably for example about 30 C. to 90 C. though it depends on the types of vinyl monomers and polymerization initiator used. The polymerization time is preferably for example about 1 to 10 hours.

Examples of the polymerization initiator include persulfates such as potassium persulfate sodium persulfate and ammonium persulfate organic peroxides such as benzoyl peroxide cumene hydroperoxide and t butyl hydroperoxide and hydrogen peroxide. The polymerization can be conducted by radical polymerization using any of these peroxides alone by using a redox polymerization initiator in which the above peroxide is used in combination with a reducing agent such as ascorbic acid erythorbic acid sodium erythorbate a metal salt of formaldehyde sulfoxylate sodium thiosulfate sodium bisulfite or ferric chloride or by using an azo based initiator such as 4 4 azobis 4 cyanovaleric acid and 2 2 azobis 2 amidinopropane dihydrochloride. These compounds may be used alone or in combination of two or more compounds.

Examples of the emulsifier that can be used for producing the vinyl polymer B include anionic surfactants nonionic surfactants cationic surfactants and amphoteric surfactants.

Examples of the anionic surfactant include sulfuric acid esters of higher alcohols and salts thereof alkylbenzenesulfonic acid salts polyoxyethylene alkyl phenyl sulfonic acid salts polyoxyethylene alkyl diphenyl ether sulfonic acid salts sulfuric acid half ester salts of polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers alkyl diphenyl ether disulfonic acid salts and succinic acid dialkyl ester sulfonic acid salts. Examples of the nonionic surfactant that can be used include polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers polyoxyethylene alkyl phenyl ethers polyoxyethylene diphenyl ether polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymers and acetylenediol based surfactants.

Examples of the amphoteric surfactant that can be used include alkyl amide betaines and alkyldimethylamine oxides.

Examples of the emulsifier that can be used include in addition to the above surfactants fluorine based surfactants silicone based surfactants and emulsifiers that are generally referred to as reactive emulsifiers each of which has a polymerizable unsaturated group in its molecule.

Examples of the reactive emulsifier that can be used include LATEMUL S 180 manufactured by Kao Corporation ELEMINOL JS 2 and ELEMINOL RS 30 manufactured by Sanyo Chemical Industries Ltd. all of which have a sulfonic acid group and a salt thereof Aquaron HS 10 Aquaron HS 20 and Aquaron KH 1025 manufactured by Dai ichi Kogyo Seiyaku Co. Ltd. ADEKA REASOAP SE 10 and ADEKA REASOAP SE 20 manufactured by ADEKA Corporation all of which have a sulfate group and a salt thereof New Frontier A 229E manufactured by Dai ichi Kogyo Seiyaku Co. Ltd. which has a phosphate group and Aquaron RN 10 Aquaron RN 20 Aquaron RN 30 and Aquaron RN 50 manufactured by Dai ichi Kogyo Seiyaku Co. Ltd. all of which have a nonionic hydrophilic group.

As an aqueous medium used in the production of the vinyl polymer B the same as those exemplified as an aqueous medium C described below can be used.

An example of the chain transfer agent that can be used in the production of the vinyl polymer B is lauryl mercaptan. The chain transfer agent is preferably used in the range of 0 to 1.0 by mass and more preferably in the range of 0 to 0.5 by mass relative to the total amount of the vinyl monomer mixture.

A resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition independently containing the urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B in the aqueous medium C can be produced by mixing an aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A obtained above with an aqueous dispersion of the vinyl polymer B .

A resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition containing composite resin particles D formed by the urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B can be produced by for example the method described below.

As described above the composite resin particles D can be produced by for example a step W of reacting the polyisocyanate a1 the polyol a2 and as required a chain extender to each other and dispersing the resulting product in water to produce an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin A and a step Y of polymerizing the vinyl monomer in the aqueous dispersion to produce a vinyl polymer B .

Specifically the polyisocyanate a1 and the polyol a2 are reacted to each other in the absence of a solvent in the presence of an organic solvent or in the presence of a reactive diluent such as a vinyl monomer to obtain a urethane resin A . Subsequently some or all of hydrophilic groups in the urethane resin A are neutralized using for example a basic compound as required. If necessary the resulting product is further reacted with a chain extender and the resulting urethane resin A is dispersed in an aqueous medium D . Thus an aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A is produced.

Subsequently the vinyl monomer is supplied to the aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A prepared above and the vinyl monomer is radically polymerized in the particles of the urethane resin A to produce a vinyl polymer B .

Consequently it is possible to produce a resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition containing composite resin particles D in which the vinyl polymer B is present in the particles of the urethane resin A the composite resin particles D being dispersed in the aqueous medium C .

In producing the composite resin particles D in the case where the urethane resin A has a high viscosity and thus workability is poor a common organic solvent such as methyl ethyl ketone N methylpyrrolidone acetone or dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether or a reactive diluent may be used. In particular for example a vinyl monomer that can be used for producing the vinyl polymer B is preferably used as the reactive diluent from the standpoint of improving the production efficiency of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer by omitting a step of removing a solvent.

Examples of the aqueous medium C in which the urethane resin A and the vinyl polymer B that are prepared by for example the above reactions or the composite resin particles D can be dispersed or dissolved include water organic solvents miscible with water and mixtures thereof. Examples of the organic solvent miscible with water include alcohols such as methanol n propyl alcohol and iso propyl alcohol ketones such as acetone and methyl ethyl ketone polyalkylene glycols such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol and propylene glycol alkyl ethers of polyalkylene glycols and lactams such as N methyl 2 pyrrolidone. In the present invention only water may be used a mixture of water and an organic solvent miscible with water may be used or only an organic solvent miscible with water may be used. From the standpoint of safety and the load on the environment only water or a mixture of water and an organic solvent miscible with water is preferable. Only water is particularly preferable.

The aqueous medium C is contained in an amount of preferably 50 to 90 by mass and more preferably 65 to 85 by mass relative to the total amount of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer.

In the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer a water soluble resin may be used in combination in particular in order to further improve printing properties and a fine line forming property in the case where a fluid such as a water based pigment ink conductive ink or plating nucleus agent is used.

Examples of the water soluble resin that can be used include polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinylacetal polyalkylene oxides starch cellulose derivatives such as methyl cellulose hydroxyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose polyethyleneimine polyamides quaternary ammonium salt containing water soluble resins and modified products thereof. Among these polyvinyl alcohol is preferably used.

In the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer if necessary in addition to the cross linking agent E known additives such as a pH adjusting agent a coating film forming auxiliary agent a leveling agent a thickener a water repellent agent and an antifoaming agent may be added and used within a range that does not impair the effects of the present invention.

Examples of the cross linking agent E that can be used include a thermal cross linking agent e1 1 that reacts at a relatively low temperature of about 25 C. or higher and lower than 100 C. and that can form a cross linked structure such as metal chelate compounds polyamine compounds aziridine compounds metal salt compounds and isocyanate compounds a thermal cross linking agent e1 2 that reacts at a relatively high temperature of about 100 C. or higher and that can form a cross linked structure such as at least one selected from the group consisting of melamine compounds epoxy compounds oxazoline compounds carbodiimide compounds and blocked isocyanate compounds and photo cross linking agents.

In the case where a resin composition for forming a receiving layer contains the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 for example the resin composition is applied onto a surface of a support and dried at a relatively low temperature printing is then conducted using the fluid and the resulting support is then heated to a temperature of lower than 100 C. to form a cross linked structure. Thus it is possible to form an ink receiving substrate having excellent durability of such a level that detachment of a conductive substance a pigment or the like can be prevented regardless of the influence of heat or an external force for a long time.

On the other hand in the case where a resin composition for forming a receiving layer contains the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 for example the resin composition is applied onto a surface of a support and dried at a low temperature in the range of room temperature 25 C. to lower than about 100 C. to produce an ink receiving substrate in which a cross linked structure is not formed printing is then conducted using an ink or the like and the resulting ink receiving substrate is then heated to a temperature of 100 C. or higher and preferably 120 C. or higher to form a cross linked structure. Thus it is possible to form printed matter or a conductive pattern having excellent durability of such a level that separation of the ink or the like does not occur regardless of the influence of heat an external force or the like for a long time.

Examples of the metal chelate compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 include acetylacetone coordination compounds and acetoacetic ester coordination compounds of a polyvalent metal such as aluminum iron copper zinc tin titanium nickel antimony magnesium vanadium chromium or zirconium. Acetylacetone aluminum which is an acetylacetone coordination compound of aluminum is preferably used.

Examples of the polyamine compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 include tertiary amines such as triethylamine triethylenediamine and dimethylethanolamine.

Examples of the aziridine compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 include 2 2 bishydroxymethylbutanol tris 3 1 aziridinyl propionate 1 6 hexamethylenediethyleneurea and diphenylmethane bis 4 4 N N diethyleneurea.

Examples of the metal salt compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 include aluminum containing compounds such as aluminum sulfate aluminum alum aluminum sulfite aluminum thiosulfate polyaluminum chloride aluminum nitrate nonahydrate and aluminum chloride hexahydrate and water soluble metal salts such as titanium tetrachloride tetraisopropyl titanate titanium acetylacetonate and lactic acid titanium.

Examples of the isocyanate compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 include polyisocyanates such as tolylene diisocyanate hydrogenated tolylene diisocyanate triphenylmethane triisocyanate methylenebis 4 phenylmethane triisocyanate isophorone diisocyanate hexamethylene diisocyanate and xylylene diisocyanate isocyanurate type polyisocyanate compounds obtained using any of these polyisocyanate compounds adducts composed of any of these polyisocyanate compounds and trimethylolpropane or the like and polyisocyanate group containing urethanes obtained by reacting any of these polyisocyanate compounds with a polyol such as trimethylolpropane. Among these an isocyanurate of hexamethylene diisocyanate an adduct of hexamethylene diisocyanate and trimethylolpropane or the like an adduct of tolylene diisocyanate and trimethylolpropane or the like or an adduct of xylylene diisocyanate and trimethylolpropane or the like is preferably used.

Examples of the melamine compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 include hexamethoxymethylmelamine hexaethoxymethylmelamine hexapropoxymethylmelamine hexabutoxymethylmelamine hexapentyloxymethylmelamine hexahexyloxymethylmelamine and mixed etherified melamines obtained by using two of these melamine compounds in combination. In particular trimethoxymethylmelamine or hexamethoxymethylmelamine is preferably used. Examples of a commercially available product that can be used include Beckamine M 3 APM and J 101 manufactured by DIC Corporation . The melamine compounds can form a cross linked structure by a self cross linking reaction.

In the case where the melamine compounds are used a catalyst such as an organic amine salt may be used in order to accelerate the self cross linking reaction. Examples of a commercially available product that can be used include Catalyst ACX 376 etc. The amount of the catalyst is preferably about 0.01 to 10 by mass relative to the total amount of the melamine compound.

Examples of the epoxy compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 include polyglycidyl ethers of aliphatic polyhydric alcohols such as ethylene glycol diglycidyl ether propylene glycol diglycidyl ether hexamethylene glycol diglycidyl ether cyclohexanediol diglycidyl ether glycerin diglycidyl ether glycerin triglycidyl ether trimethylolpropane triglycidyl ether and pentaerythritol tetraglycidyl ether polyglycidyl ethers of polyalkylene glycols such as polyethylene glycol diglycidyl ether polypropylene glycol diglycidyl ether and polytetramethylene glycol diglycidyl ether polyglycidylamines such as 1 3 bis N N diglycidylaminoethyl cyclohexane polyglycidyl esters of polyvalent carboxylic acids such as oxalic acid adipic acid butanetricarboxylic acid maleic acid phthalic acid terephthalic acid isophthalic acid or benzene tricarboxylic acid bisphenol A based epoxy resins such as a condensate of bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin and an ethylene oxide adduct of a condensate of bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin phenol novolak resins and vinyl co polymers having an epoxy group in a side chain thereof. Among these a polyglycidylamine such as 1 3 bis N N diglycidylaminoethyl cyclohexane and a polyglycidyl ether of an aliphatic polyhydric alcohol such as glycerin diglycidyl ether are preferably used.

Examples of the epoxy compound that can be used include in addition to the compounds described above glycidyl group containing silane compounds such as glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane glycidoxypropylmethyldimethoxysilane glycidoxypropylmethyldiethoxysilane 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxysilane 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltriethoxysilane 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethylmethyldiethoxysilane and glycidoxypropyltriisopropenyloxysilane.

Examples of the oxazoline compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 include 2 2 bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 methylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 ethylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 trimethylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 tetramethylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 hexamethylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 octamethylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 ethylene bis 4 4 dimethyl 2 oxazoline 2 2 p phenylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 m phenylene bis 2 oxazoline 2 2 m phenylene bis 4 4 dimethyl 2 oxazoline bis 2 oxazolinylcyclohexane sulfide and bis 2 oxazolinylnorbornane sulfide.

Examples of the oxazoline compound that can be used further include oxazoline group containing polymers obtained by polymerizing an addition polymerizable oxazoline described below and as required in combination with another monomer.

Examples of the addition polymerizable oxazoline include 2 vinyl 2 oxazoline 2 vinyl 4 methyl 2 oxazoline 2 vinyl 5 methyl 2 oxazoline 2 isopropenyl 2 oxazoline 2 isopropenyl 4 methyl 2 oxazoline 2 isopropenyl 5 methyl 2 oxazoline and 2 isopropenyl 5 ethyl 2 oxazoline. These may be used alone or in combination of two or more compounds. Among these 2 isopropenyl 2 oxazoline is preferably used because it is industrially easily available.

Examples of the carbodiimide compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 include poly phenylenebis dimethylmethylene carbodiimide and poly methyl 1 3 phenylenecarbodiimide . As commercially available products for example Carbodilite V 01 V 02 V 03 V 04 V 05 and V 06 manufactured by Nisshinbo Chemical Inc. and UCARLINK XL 29SE and XL 29MP manufactured by Union Carbide Corporation can be used.

Examples of the blocked isocyanate compound that can be used as the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 include compounds in which some or all of isocyanate groups in the isocyanate compounds exemplified as the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 are blocked by a blocking agent.

Examples of the blocking agent that can be used include phenol cresol 2 hydroxypyridine butyl cellosolve propylene glycol monomethyl ether benzyl alcohol methanol ethanol n butanol isobutanol dimethyl malonate diethyl malonate methyl acetoacetate ethyl acetoacetate acetylacetone butyl mercaptan dodecyl mercaptan acetanilide acetic acid amide caprolactam valerolactam butyrolactam succinimide maleic acid imide imidazole 2 methylimidazole urea thiourea ethylene urea formamide oxime acetaldoxime acetone oxime methyl ethyl ketone oxime methyl isobutyl ketone oxime cyclohexanone oxime diphenylaniline aniline carbazole ethyleneimine and polyethyleneimine.

As the blocked isocyanate compound for example Elastron BN 69 manufactured by Dai ichi Kogyo Seiyaku Co. Ltd. can be used as a water dispersion type commercially available product.

In the case where the cross linking agent E is used a vinyl resin having a group that can react with the cross linkable functional group in the cross linking agent E is preferably used as the vinyl resin B . Specifically the blocked isocyanate compounds melamine compounds oxazoline compounds and carbodiimide compounds are used as the cross linking agent and a vinyl resin having a hydroxyl group or a carboxyl group is preferably used as the vinyl resin A .

In general the cross linking agent E is preferably used in the range of 0.01 to 60 by mass more preferably 0.1 to 10 by mass and still more preferably 0.1 to 5 by mass relative to 100 parts by mass of the total mass of the urethane resin A the vinyl polymer B and the composite resin particles D from the standpoint of forming a receiving layer on which a printed image having further improved printing properties can be formed though the amount of cross linking agent E varies depending on for example the type of cross linking agent E . Furthermore the cross linking agent E is preferably used in the above ranges for the following reason In the case where a conductive pattern is formed using a conductive ink or the like it is possible to provide a further improved fine line forming property of such a level that an increase in integration density of electronic circuits or the like is realized without causing bleeding of a printed portion such as a fine line and to further improve the adhesion between the receiving layer and a support.

The cross linking agent E is preferably added in advance to the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer before the resin composition is applied onto or impregnated into a surface of a support.

The resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer may contain in addition to the additives described above solvent soluble or solvent dispersible thermosetting resins such as a phenolic resin a urea resin a melamine resin a polyester resin a polyamide resin and a urethane resin.

Various types of fillers such as inorganic particles may also be used as the additive. However in the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer the amount of filler used is preferably as small as possible and more preferably 5 by mass or less relative to the total amount of the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer.

The amount of additive used is not particularly limited as long as the effects of the present invention are not impaired but is preferably in the range of 0.01 to 40 by mass relative to the total solid content in the resin composition for forming a conductive receiving layer.

A receiving layer that can be formed by using the resin composition for forming a receiving layer is a swelling type receiving layer in which the urethane resin A the vinyl polymer B and the composite resin particles D that form the receiving layer are appropriately dissolved in a solvent contained in a fluid such as an ink and absorb the solvent and thus a pigment or a conductive substance such as a metal that is contained in the fluid can be fixed to a surface of the ink receiving layer with a high accuracy. Accordingly bleeding free printed matter such as a conductive pattern can be obtained. Furthermore the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer can form a transparent receiving layer as compared with a known porous type receiving layer.

Next a receiving substrate of the present invention the receiving substrate being used for receiving the fluid will be described.

The receiving substrate of the present invention includes a support and a receiving layer formed on part of or the entire surface of the support and on a surface or both surfaces of the support using the resin composition for forming a receiving layer.

The receiving layer is a layer that absorbs a solvent in the fluid and carries a conductive substance or a pigment on a surface of the receiving layer when the fluid contacts the surface of the receiving layer. For example in the case where a pigment ink is used as the fluid a highly sharp printed matter without bleeding or the like can be formed. In the case where a conductive ink is used as the fluid a conductive pattern without bleeding or the like can be formed. In the case where a plating nucleus agent is used as the fluid it is possible to form a laminate in which plating nuclei are uniformly carried on a surface of the receiving layer without unevenness.

The receiving layer may be stacked on the support. Alternatively part of the receiving layer may be impregnated into the support.

The receiving substrate of the present invention can be produced by applying the receiving substrate onto either one surface or both surfaces of a support or by impregnating the receiving substrate into a support when the support is a fibrous base or the like and then volatilizing the aqueous medium C contained in the resin composition for forming a receiving layer.

Examples of the support that can be used include not only wood free paper and coated paper but also supports composed of a polyimide resin a polyamide imide resin a polyamide resin polyethylene terephthalate polyethylene naphthalate polycarbonate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS an acrylic resin such as polymethyl meth acrylate polyvinylidene fluoride polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride polyvinyl alcohol polyethylene polypropylene polyurethane cellulose nanofibers silicon a ceramic or glass porous supports composed of any of these and supports composed of a metal such as copper or a steel sheet.

Examples of the support that can be used further include bases composed of synthetic fibers such as polyester fibers polyamide fibers or aramid fibers and bases composed of natural fibers such as cotton or hemp. These fibers may be processed in advance.

Known methods can be employed as a method for applying the resin composition for forming a receiving layer onto the support or impregnating the support with the resin composition. Examples of the method include a gravure method a coating method a screen method a roller method a rotary method and a spray method.

A method for volatilizing the aqueous medium C contained in a receiving layer after the resin composition of the present invention for forming the receiving layer is applied onto or impregnated into a support is not particularly limited but a drying method using a dryer is common. The drying temperature may be set to a temperature in a range in which the aqueous medium C can be volatilized and the support is not adversely affected.

A method for removing a solvent such as a solvent that may be contained in the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer after the resin composition is applied onto or impregnated into part of or the entire surface of a support is not particularly limited but a drying method using a dryer is common. The drying temperature may be set to a temperature in a range in which the solvent can be volatilized and the support is not adversely affected. Specifically in the case where the thermal cross linking agent e1 1 is used drying is preferably performed at a temperature of about 25 C. or higher and lower than 100 C. In the case where the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 is used drying is preferably performed at a temperature of about 100 C. or higher more preferably at a temperature in the range of about 120 C. to 300 C. On the other hand in the case where the thermal cross linking agent e1 2 is used and printing is performed with a fluid such as an ink and a cross linked structure is then formed it is preferable to perform drying at a relatively low temperature of about room temperature 25 C. to 100 C. so that a cross linked structure is not formed before the printing.

The amount of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition adhering to the support is preferably in the range of 3 to 60 g mwith respect to the area of the support from the standpoint of maintaining a very high level of color developing property and maintaining a good production efficiency and particularly preferably in the range of 20 to 40 g mconsidering a property of absorbing a solvent contained in a fluid and the production cost.

By increasing the amount of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition adhering to the support the color developing property of the resulting printed matter can be further improved. However an increase in the amount of the resin composition tends to make the texture of the resulting printed matter somewhat hard. Accordingly it is preferable to appropriately adjust the amount of the resin composition in accordance with for example the use of the printed matter.

A printed image having excellent printing properties and water resistance can be formed on the receiving substrate of the present invention without causing bleeding or cracks. Thus the receiving substrate of the present invention can be used in for example indoor and outdoor advertisements such as a signboard advertisement on vehicles and a banner.

The fluid that can be used for printing on the receiving substrate is a liquid or a viscous liquid having a viscosity of 0.1 to 500 000 mPa s and preferably 0.5 to 10 000 mPa s measured at about 25 C. with a B type viscometer and contains a solvent and a conductive substance a pigment or the like that is dispersed in the solvent. For example in the case where the fluid is printed by an ink jet printing method a fluid having a viscosity in the range of 0.5 to 10 000 mPa s is preferably used.

Specific examples of the fluid include printing inks such as a conductive ink and a pigment ink and a plating nucleus agent that may be used in a plating process.

An example of the fluid is a water based pigment ink in which for example a pigment is dispersed in an aqueous medium.

As the aqueous medium only water may be used or a mixed solution of water and a water soluble solvent may be used. Examples of the water soluble solvent that can be used include alcohols such as methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbitol ethyl cellosolve and butyl cellosolve and polar solvents such as N methylpyrrolidone.

Examples of the pigment that can be dispersed or dissolved in the aqueous medium include organic pigments such as quinacridone based pigments anthraquinone based pigments perylene based pigments perinone based pigments diketopyrrolopyrrole based pigments isoindolinone based pigments condensed azo based pigments benzimidazolone based pigments monoazo based pigments insoluble azo based pigments naphthol based pigments flavanthrone based pigments anthrapyrimidine based pigments quinophthalone based pigments pyranthrone based pigments pyrazolone based pigments thioindigo based pigments anthanthrone based pigments dioxazine based pigments phthalocyanine based pigments and indanthrone based pigments metal complexes such as nickel dioxin yellow and copper azomethine yellow metal oxides such as titanium oxide iron oxide and zinc oxide metal salts such as barium sulfate and calcium carbonate inorganic pigments such as carbon black and mica fine powders of a metal such as aluminum and fine powders of mica. The pigment is preferably used in the range of 0.5 to 15 by mass and more preferably 1 to 10 by mass relative to the total amount of water based pigment ink.

A solvent based pigment ink in which a pigment etc. are dissolved or dispersed in a solvent composed of an organic solvent may also be used as the fluid.

As the organic solvent alcohols ethers esters ketones etc. which have a boiling point of 100 C. to 250 C. are preferably used and those having a boiling point of 120 C. to 220 C. are more preferably used from the standpoint of for example preventing the drying and clogging of an ink jet head.

Examples of the alcohols that can be used include ethylene glycol triethylene glycol tetraethylene glycol propylene glycol and dipropylene glycol.

Examples of the ethers that can be used include ethylene glycol mono methyl ethyl butyl phenyl benzyl and ethylhexyl ethers ethylene glycol di methyl ethyl and butyl ethers diethylene glycol mono methyl ethyl and butyl ethers diethylene glycol di methyl ethyl butyl ethers tetraethylene glycol mono methyl ethyl and butyl ethers tetraethylene glycol di methyl ethyl and butyl ethers propylene glycol mono methyl ethyl and butyl ethers dipropylene glycol mono methyl and ethyl ethers and tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether.

Examples of the esters include ethylene glycol mono methyl ethyl and butyl ether acetates ethylene glycol di methyl ethyl and butyl ether acetates diethylene glycol mono methyl ethyl and butyl ether acetates diethylene glycol di methyl ethyl and butyl ether acetates propylene glycol mono methyl ethyl and butyl ether acetates dipropylene glycol mono methyl and ethyl ether acetates tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate 2 methoxy ethoxy and butoxy ethyl acetates 2 ethylhexyl acetate dimethyl phthalate diethyl phthalate and butyl lactate. Examples of the ketones include cyclohexanone.

Among these organic solvents diethylene glycol diethyl ether tetraethylene glycol monobutyl ether tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate and propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate are preferably used.

As the pigment used in the solvent based pigment ink the same as those exemplified as the pigments that can be used in the water based pigment ink can be used.

The receiving substrate of the present invention can be particularly suitably used in the case where printing is performed with a solvent based pigment ink among pigment inks such as the water based pigment inks and the solvent based pigment inks.

Various printing methods can be employed as a method for performing printing on a receiving substrate of the present invention with the pigment ink. An ink jet printing method a screen printing method a letterpress reverse printing method or a gravure off set printing method is preferably employed.

The receiving substrate of the present invention also has excellent printing properties for a conductive ink containing a conductive substance the conductive ink serving as the fluid. For example a fine line having a width of about 0.01 to 200 m and preferably about 0.01 to 150 m which is required for forming a conductive pattern of an electronic circuit or the like can be printed without causing bleeding fine line forming property . Accordingly the receiving substrate of the present invention can be suitably used in for example the printed electronics field such as the formation of an electronic circuit using a silver ink or the like the formation of layers and peripheral wiring that are included in an organic solar cell an electronic book terminal an organic EL device an organic transistor a flexible printed circuit board RFID etc. and the formation of wiring of an electromagnetic wave shield of a plasma display.

The receiving substrate conductive ink receiving substrate of the present invention that can be used for forming the conductive pattern includes a support and a receiving layer disposed on part of or an entire surface of the support the receiving layer being formed using the resin composition for forming a receiving layer as in the receiving substrate described above. The receiving layer may be stacked on the support. Alternatively part of the receiving layer may be impregnated into the support. The receiving layer may be provided on either one surface or both surfaces of the support and may be applied onto part or the entirety of the one or two surfaces.

The receiving substrate of the present invention can be produced by applying the resin composition for forming a receiving layer onto part or the entirety of one surface or both surfaces of a support or by impregnating the resin composition into part of or the entirety of one or two surfaces of a support and then removing the aqueous medium C contained in the resin composition for forming a conductive receiving layer.

In producing the conductive pattern examples of the support suitable for stacking the receiving layer thereon include supports composed of a polyimide resin a polyamide imide resin a polyamide resin polyethylene terephthalate polyethylene naphthalate polycarbonate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS an acrylic resin such as polymethyl meth acrylate polyvinylidene fluoride polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride polyvinyl alcohol polycarbonate polyethylene polypropylene polyurethane cellulose nanofibers silicon a ceramic or glass porous supports composed of any of these and supports composed of a metal such as copper or a steel sheet.

Among these supports composed of a polyimide resin polyethylene terephthalate polyethylene naphthalate glass cellulose nanofibers or the like all of which are often used as a support when a conductive pattern of a circuit board or the like is formed are preferably used as the support.

Among the above supports bases composed of a polyimide resin polyethylene terephthalate polyethylene naphthalate polycarbonate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS an acrylic resin glass or the like generally have low adhesiveness and thus a resin or another material often does not readily adhere to the supports.

In the case where the support is used in for example an application that requires flexibility a support that is relatively flexible and that can be bent is preferably used from the standpoint of providing flexibility to a conductive pattern and obtaining a final product that can be bent. Specifically for example a uniaxially stretched film like or sheet like support is preferably used.

Examples of the film like or sheet like support include a polyethylene terephthalate film a polyimide film and a polyethylene naphthalate film.

Known methods can be employed as a method for applying the resin composition for forming a receiving layer onto part or the entire surface of the support or impregnating part or the entire surface of the support with the resin composition. Examples of the method include a gravure method a coating method a screen method a roller method a rotary method a spray method and an ink jet method.

A method for removing the aqueous medium C that may be contained in the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer after the resin composition is applied onto or impregnated into part of or the entire surface of a support is not particularly limited but a drying method using a dryer is common. The drying temperature may be set to a temperature in a range in which the solvent can be volatilized and the support is not adversely affected.

The amount of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition adhering to a surface of the support is preferably in the range of 0.01 to 20 g min terms of resin solid content with respect to the area of the support considering the amount of solvent contained in a fluid such as a conductive ink the thickness of a conductive pattern and the like. The amount of the resin composition adhering to a surface of the support is particularly preferably in the range of 0.01 to 10 g mconsidering a property of absorbing a solvent contained in a fluid and the production cost.

By increasing the amount of the resin composition for forming a receiving layer the resin composition adhering to a surface of the support the fine line forming property of the receiving substrate can be further improved. However an increase in the amount of the resin composition tends to make the texture of the resulting receiving substrate somewhat hard. Accordingly for example in the case where good flexibility is required e.g. in the case of a flexible printed circuit board that can be bent the resin composition is preferably applied so as to have a relatively small thickness of about 0.02 to 10 g m. On the other hand the resin composition may be used in an embodiment in which the resin composition has a relatively large thickness of about 10 to 100 g mdepending on for example the application of the receiving substrate.

The receiving substrate of the present invention produced by the method described above can be suitably used when a conductive ink is used as the fluid. In particular the receiving substrate can be suitably used for forming a conductive pattern or the like in for example the printed electronics field. More specifically the receiving substrate can be suitably used as a substrate for forming a circuit the substrate being used in an electronic circuit an integrated circuit or the like.

Printing can be performed on the receiving substrate or the substrate for forming a circuit by using a conductive ink as the fluid. Specifically printing is performed on a receiving layer that is included in the receiving substrate with a conductive ink and a baking step is then performed. Thus for example a conductive pattern including a conductive substance composed of a metal such as silver the conductive substance being contained in the conductive ink can be formed on the receiving substrate.

Similarly to the above described pigment ink and the like the conductive ink that can be used as the fluid is a liquid or a viscous liquid having a viscosity of 0.1 to 500 000 mPa s and preferably 0.5 to 10 000 mPa s measured at about 25 C. with a B type viscometer and contains a solvent and a conductive substance a pigment or the like that is dispersed in the solvent. For example in the case where the fluid is printed by an ink jet printing method a fluid having a viscosity in the range of 0.5 to 10 000 mPa s is preferably used.

For example an ink containing a conductive substance a solvent and as required an additive such as a dispersing agent can be used as the conductive ink.

Examples of the conductive substance that can be used include transition metals and compounds thereof. Among these ionic transition metals are preferably used. For example transition metals such as copper silver gold nickel palladium platinum and cobalt are preferably used and silver gold copper and the like are more preferably used because a conductive pattern that has a low electrical resistance and that is highly resistant to corrosion can be formed.

Particulate conductive substances having an average particle diameter of about 1 to 50 nm are preferably used as the conductive substance. Note that the term average particle diameter refers to a center particle diameter D50 and a value measured with a laser diffraction scattering particle size distribution analyzer.

The conductive substance such as a metal is preferably contained in the range of 10 to 60 by mass relative to the total amount of the conductive ink.

Various types of organic solvents and aqueous media such as water can be used as the solvent in the conductive ink. The receiving substrate of the present invention can be suitably used in the case where a solvent based conductive ink is used.

In the present invention solvent based conductive inks that mainly contain an organic solvent as the solvent of the conductive ink water based conductive inks that mainly contain water as the solvent and conductive inks that contain both the organic solvent and water can be appropriately selected and used.

Among these from the standpoint of improving the fine line forming property adhesion etc. of a conductive pattern or the like to be formed conductive inks that contain both the organic solvent and water as the solvent of the conductive ink and solvent based conductive inks that mainly contain an organic solvent as the solvent of the conductive ink are preferably used and solvent based conductive inks that mainly contain an organic solvent as the solvent of the conductive ink are more preferably used.

In particular the receiving layer included in the receiving substrate of the present invention is preferably used in combination with a conductive ink that in particular contains a polar solvent as the organic solvent because bleeding a decrease in adhesion etc. that may be caused by the polar solvent can be sufficiently prevented and it is possible to realize a fine line forming property of such a level that an increase in integration density of electronic circuits or the like can be realized.

Examples of the solvent that can be used in the solvent based conductive ink include polar solvents such as alcohol solvents e.g. methanol n propanol isopropyl alcohol n butanol isobutyl alcohol sec butanol tert butanol heptanol hexanol octanol nonanol decanol undecanol dodecanol tridecanol tetradecanol pentadecanol stearyl alcohol allyl alcohol cyclohexanol terpineol terpineol and dihydroterpineol glycol solvents e.g. 2 ethyl 1 3 hexanediol ethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol polyethylene glycol propylene glycol dipropylene glycol 1 2 butanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol and 2 3 butanediol glycol ether solvents e.g. ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether diethylene glycol monoethyl ether diethylene glycol monomethyl ether diethylene glycol monobutyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate diethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate diethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate diethylene glycol diethyl ether diethylene glycol dimethyl ether diethylene glycol dibutyl ether tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether tetraethylene glycol monobutyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether propylene glycol monopropyl ether dipropylene glycol monopropyl ether propylene glycol monobutyl ether dipropylene glycol monobutyl ether tripropylene glycol monobutyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate propylene glycol diacetate propylene glycol phenyl ether and dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether and glycerol.

Among the polar solvents solvents having a hydroxyl group are preferably used from the standpoint of preventing bleeding of a conductive pattern or the like to improve a fine line forming property and preventing detachment of a conductive substance contained in the conductive ink from a surface of a receiving layer.

In the solvent based conductive ink ketone solvents such as acetone cyclohexanone and methyl ethyl ketone can be used in combination in order to adjust physical properties. Furthermore non polar solvents such as ester solvent e.g. ethyl acetate butyl acetate 3 methoxybutyl acetate and 3 methoxy 3 methyl butyl acetate hydrocarbon solvents such as toluene in particular hydrocarbon solvents having 8 or more carbon atoms e.g. octane nonane decane dodecane tridecane tetradecane cyclooctane xylene mesitylene ethylbenzene dodecylbenzene tetralin trimethylbenzene and cyclohexane may also be used in combination as required. Furthermore solvents such as mineral spirits and solvent naphtha which are mixed solvents may also be used in combination.

However since a receiving layer formed using the resin composition of the present invention for forming a receiving layer is particularly preferably used in combination with a conductive ink containing a polar solvent the amount of non polar solvent is preferably 0 to 40 by mass relative to the total amount of solvent contained in the conductive ink.

As the aqueous medium that can be used as a solvent of the conductive ink the same as those exemplified as the aqueous medium C can be used. For example only water may be used or a mixed solution of water and a water soluble solvent may be used. As the water soluble solvent for example polar solvents such as alcohols e.g. methyl alcohol ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbitol ethyl cellosolve and butyl cellosolve and N methylpyrrolidone are preferably used from the standpoint of preventing bleeding of a conductive pattern or the like to improve a fine line forming property and preventing detachment of a conductive substance contained in the conductive ink from a surface of a receiving layer.

The solvent in the conductive ink is preferably contained in the range of 40 to 90 by mass relative to the total amount of the conductive ink. The polar solvent is preferably contained in the range of 40 to 100 by mass relative to the total amount of the solvent.

The conductive ink may optionally contain various types of additives in addition to the metal and the solvent.

A dispersing agent can be used as the additive from the standpoint of improving dispersibility of the metal in the solvent.

Examples of the dispersing agent that can be used include amine polymer dispersing agents such as polyethyleneimine and polyvinylpyrrolidone hydrocarbon polymer dispersing agents having carboxylic acid groups in their molecules such as polyacrylic acid and carboxymethyl cellulose and polymer dispersing agents having polar groups such as polyvinyl alcohol styrene maleic acid copolymers olefin maleic acid copolymers and copolymers having a polyethyleneimine moiety and a polyethylene oxide moiety in one molecule thereof. Polyvinyl alcohol may be used as a dispersing agent in the case where a solvent based conductive ink is used.

Examples of a method for performing printing on the receiving substrate or the like with the conductive ink include an ink jet printing method a screen printing method a letterpress reverse printing method a gravure off set printing method an off set printing method a spin coating method a spray coating method a bar coating method a die coating method a slit coating method a roll coating method and a dip coating method.

In the ink jet printing method a device that is generally called an ink jet printer can be used. Specific examples thereof include Konica Minolta EB100 XY100 manufactured by Konica Minolta IJ Technologies Inc. and Dimatix materials printer DMP 3000 and Dimatix materials printer DMP 2831 manufactured by FUJI FILM Corporation .

The screen printing method is a method in which a conductive ink is applied onto a surface of the receiving layer by using a mesh like screen printing plate. Specifically a conducting pattern having a predetermined pattern shape can be formed by printing a conductive pattern using a metal screen printing plate that is generally called a metal mesh so as to have the predetermined pattern shape.

The letterpress reverse printing method is a method including applying a conductive ink onto a blanket to form a surface coated with the conductive ink and transferring the conductive ink to the receiving layer.

First a conductive ink is applied onto the blanket to form a layer composed of the conductive ink. Next a relief printing plate including a plate corresponding to a predetermined pattern shape as required is pressed onto the layer composed of the conductive ink whereby the conductive ink that is in contact with the relief printing plate is transferred from the blanket to a surface of the relief printing plate.

Subsequently the blanket is brought into contact with the receiving layer thereby transferring the conductive ink remaining on the blanket to a surface of the receiving layer. A conductive pattern having a predetermined pattern can be formed by this method.

An example of the gravure off set printing method is conducted as follows. A conductive ink is supplied to a groove of an intaglio printing plate having a predetermined pattern shape. A blanket is then pressed onto the surface of the intaglio printing plate thereby transferring the conductive ink onto the blanket. Next the conductive ink on the blanket is transferred to the receiving layer.

For example a gravure plate or a glass intaglio plate formed by etching a glass plate can be used as the intaglio printing plate.

A blanket having a multilayer structure including a silicone rubber layer a polyethylene terephthalate layer a sponge like layer etc. can be used as the blanket. In general a blanket wound around a rigid cylinder which is called a blanket cylinder is used.

The electrical conduction property can be provided to printed matter which is produced by performing printing on the receiving substrate by the method described above by making conductive substances contained in the conductive ink be in close contact with each other and joining the conductive substances to each other.

Examples of the method for joining the conductive substances include baking by heating and light irradiation.

The baking is preferably conducted in the range of about 80 C. to 300 C. for about 2 to 200 minutes. The baking may be conducted in air. Alternatively from the standpoint of preventing oxidation of the metal part or all of the baking step may be conducted in a reducing atmosphere.

The baking step can be conducted by using for example an oven a hot air drying furnace an infrared drying furnace laser irradiation flash lamp irradiation or microwaves.

In the case where the cross linking agent e1 2 is used and a cross linked structure is formed after printing is conducted with a conductive ink or the like the cross linked structure is formed after the printing through the baking step. Thus durability of printed matter of a conductive pattern or the like can be significantly improved.

In the case where the cross linking reaction and the baking step are conducted at the same time the heating temperature is preferably in the range of about 80 C. to 300 C. more preferably about 100 C. to 300 C. and particularly preferably about 120 C. to 300 C. though it depends on the type of cross linking agent E used the combination of cross linkable functional groups etc. When the support is relatively easily affected by heat the upper limit of the temperature is preferably 200 C. or lower and more preferably 150 C. or lower.

On the surface of the printed matter obtained through the baking step a conductive pattern is formed by the metal contained in the conductive ink. This conductive pattern can be used in for example a circuit board or an integrated circuit board of an electrical appliance.

As the conductive pattern a pattern plated with a metal such as copper may be used in order to form a highly reliable wiring pattern that can maintain a good electrical conduction property without the occurrence of a disconnection or the like for a long time. Specifically the conductive pattern includes for example a receiving layer on part of or the entire surface of the support the receiving layer being formed by using the resin composition for forming a receiving layer and a plating film formed by carrying plating nuclei on part of or the entire surface of the receiving layer by for example applying a plating nucleus agent conducting a baking step or the like as required and then conducting an electrolytic plating process an electroless plating process or an electroless plating process and a subsequent electrolytic plating process.

As the plating nucleus agent a plating nucleus agent corresponding to the conductive ink exemplified as the fluid can be used. For example a plating nucleus agent in which a plating nucleus specifically a conductive substance is dispersed in a solvent can be used.

For example at least one selected from metal particles exemplified as a conductive substance that can be used in the conductive ink oxides of the metals described above and the metals the surface of which is coated with an organic substance can be used as the conductive substance contained in the plating nucleus agent.

Each of the above metal oxides is usually in an inactive insulating state. However activity the electrical conduction property can be provided by for example treating the metal oxide with a reducing agent such as dimethylaminoborane to expose a metal.

Examples of the metals the surface of which is coated with an organic substance include metals included in resin particles organic substance prepared by an emulsion polymerization method or the like. Each of these surface coated metals is usually in an inactive insulating state. However activity the electrical conduction property can be provided by for example removing the organic substance by using a laser or the like to expose a metal.

The conductive substance contained in the plating nucleus agent preferably has an average particle diameter in the range of about 10 nm to 1 m.

As the solvent used in the plating nucleus agent it is possible to use the same as those exemplified as solvents such as an aqueous medium and an organic solvent that can be used in the conductive ink.

The electroless plating process is a process for forming an electroless plating film formed of a metal coating film by bringing an electroless plating solution into contact with a surface of a receiving substrate the surface carrying plating nuclei composed of for example palladium or silver thereon to deposit a metal such as copper contained in the electroless plating solution.

As the electroless plating solution for example a solution containing a conductive substance composed of a metal such as copper nickel chromium cobalt or tin a reducing agent and a solvent such as an aqueous medium or an organic solvent can be used.

Examples of the reducing agent that can be used include dimethylaminoborane hypophosphorous acid sodium hypophosphite dimethylamine borane hydrazine formaldehyde sodium borohydride and phenols.

The electroless plating solution may contain as required complexing agents for example organic acids such as monocarboxylic acids e.g. acetic acid and formic acid dicarboxylic acids e.g. malonic acid succinic acid adipic acid maleic acid and fumaric acid hydroxycarboxylic acids e.g. malic acid lactic acid glycolic acid gluconic acid and citric acid amino acids e.g. glycine alanine iminodiacetic acid arginine aspartic acid and glutamic acid and aminopolycarboxylic acids e.g. iminodiacetic acid nitrilotriacetic acid ethylenediaminediacetic acid ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid soluble salts such as sodium salts potassium salts and ammonium salts of any of these organic acids and amines e.g. ethylenediamine diethylenetriamine and triethylenetetramine.

When the electroless plating solution is brought into contact with the surface of the receiving substrate on which the plating nuclei in the plating nucleus agent are carried the temperature of the electroless plating solution is preferably in the range of about 20 C. to 98 C.

The electrolytic plating process is a process for forming an electrolytic plating film metal coating film by applying a voltage in a state in which an electrolytic plating solution is brought into contact with a surface x of a receiving substrate on which the plating nuclei are carried or a surface y of an electroless plating film formed by the electroless process to deposit a metal such as copper contained in the electrolytic plating solution on the surface x of the receiving substrate disposed on the negative electrode or the surface y of the electroless plating film formed by the electroless process.

As the electrolytic plating solution a solution containing a conductive substance composed of a metal such as copper nickel chromium cobalt or tin sulfuric acid or the like and an aqueous medium can be used.

When the electrolytic plating solution is brought into contact with the surface of the receiving substrate on which the plating nuclei in the plating nucleus agent are carried the temperature of the electrolytic plating solution is preferably in the range of about 20 C. to 98 C.

In the electroless plating process or the electrolytic plating process described above a strongly acidic or strongly basic plating solution is often used as described above. Therefore when a common receiving substrate is used a receiving layer of the receiving substrate is corroded and the receiving layer is often separated from a support.

In contrast in the case where printing is performed on the receiving substrate of the present invention with a fluid such as a plating nucleus agent and a cross linked structure in the receiving layer is then formed the separation of the receiving layer from a support does not occur in the plating process. In particular even when the support is composed of a polyimide resin or the like the separation of the receiving layer does not occur. Thus the receiving substrate of the present invention can be very suitably used in the production of the conductive pattern.

The conductive pattern described above can be suitably used in the formation of an electronic circuit using a silver ink or the like the formation of layers and peripheral wiring that are included in an organic solar cell an electronic book terminal an organic EL device an organic transistor a flexible printed circuit board RFID etc. and the formation of a conducive pattern more specifically a circuit board in producing for example wiring of an electromagnetic wave shield of a plasma display.

Among conductive patterns produced by the method described above a conductive pattern produced by performing printing with a fluid such as a conductive ink or a plating nucleus agent and then forming a cross linked structure in a receiving layer can be provided with excellent durability of such a level that a good electrical conduction property can be maintained without causing for example separation of the receiving layer from a support even in the case where a plating process is performed. Accordingly the conductive pattern can be suitably used in applications that particularly require durability among the formation of a substrate for forming a circuit using a silver ink or the like the substrate being used in an electronic circuit or an integrated circuit the formation of layers and peripheral wiring that are included in an organic solar cell an electronic book terminal an organic EL device an organic transistor a flexible printed circuit board RFID etc. the formation of wiring of an electromagnetic wave shield of a plasma display etc. In particular a conductive pattern obtained through the above described plating process can form a highly reliable wiring pattern that can maintain a good electrical conduction property without the occurrence of a disconnection or the like for a long time. Accordingly such a conductive pattern can be used in the applications of a flexible printed circuit board FPC a tape for tape automated bonding TAB a film for chip on film COF and a printed wiring board PWB all of which are generally called a copper clad laminate CCL .

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polyester polyol polyester polyol prepared by reacting 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol neopentyl glycol and adipic acid the content of an alicyclic structure in the polyester polyol 1.426 mmol kg hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 17.6 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 21.7 parts by mass of 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and 106.2 parts by mass of dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 178 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 13.3 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 380 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure and a carboxyl group was prepared.

Next 8.8 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin A 1 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin A 1 thus prepared had an acid value of 30 a content of an alicyclic structure of 4.452 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 53 000.

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polyester polyol polyester polyol prepared by reacting neopentyl glycol 1 6 hexanediol and adipic acid hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 12.6 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 5.5 parts by mass of 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and 58.2 parts by mass of dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 124 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 9.5 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 277 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure and a carboxyl group was prepared.

Next 4.8 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin a1 2 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin A 2 thus prepared had an acid value of 30 a content of an alicyclic structure of 2.714 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 51 000.

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polyester polyol polyester polyol prepared by reacting 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol neopentyl glycol and adipic acid the content of an alicyclic structure in the polyester polyol 1.426 mmol kg hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 17.6 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 21.7 parts by mass of 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and 106.2 parts by mass of dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 178 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 10 parts by mass of aminopropyltriethoxysilane was mixed with the organic solvent solution of the urethane prepolymer to allow the urethane prepolymer to react with aminopropyltriethoxysilane. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure a carboxyl group and a hydrolysable silyl group or a silanol group was prepared.

Next 13.3 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 380 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin was prepared.

Next 8.8 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin a1 3 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin a1 3 thus prepared had an acid value of 30 a content of an alicyclic structure of 4.307 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 88 000.

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polyether polyol PTMG2000 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 17.4 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 34.2 parts by mass of 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol 109.3 parts by mass of dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate and 31.5 parts by mass of isophorone diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 178 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 12.5 parts by mass of aminopropyltriethoxysilane was mixed with the organic solvent solution of the urethane prepolymer to allow the urethane prepolymer to react with aminopropyltriethoxysilane. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure a carboxyl group and a hydrolysable silyl group or a silanol group was prepared.

Next 13.1 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 488 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin was prepared.

Next 17 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin A 4 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin A 4 thus prepared had an acid value of 25 a content of an alicyclic structure of 3.921 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 99 000.

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polycarbonate polyol polycarbonate diol prepared by reacting 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and a carbonic acid ester and having an alicyclic structure the content of the alicyclic structure in the polycarbonate polyol 3 000 mmol kg hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 9.7 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 5.5 parts by mass of 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and 51.4 parts by mass of dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 111 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 7.3 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 355 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure and a carboxyl group was prepared.

Next 4.3 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin A 5 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin A 5 thus prepared had an acid value of 24 a content of an alicyclic structure of 4.356 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 61 000.

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polyether polyol PTMG2000 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 7.9 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 3.0 parts by mass of neopentyl glycol and 41.0 parts by mass of isophorone diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 118 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 4.2 parts by mass of 3 aminopropyltriethoxysilane was mixed with the organic solvent solution of the urethane prepolymer to allow the urethane prepolymer to react with 3 aminopropyltriethoxysilane. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane resin having a hydrolysable silyl group or a silanol group and a hydrophilic group was prepared.

Next 5.9 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 230 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin was prepared.

Next 5.6 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin A 1 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin A 1 thus prepared had an acid value of 22 a content of an alicyclic structure of 1.172 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 97 000.

In a vessel which was equipped with a thermometer a nitrogen gas introducing tube and a stirrer and whose atmosphere was replaced with nitrogen 100 parts by mass of a polyester polyol polyester polyol prepared by reacting 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol neopentyl glycol and adipic acid the content of an alicyclic structure in the polyester polyol 1.425 mmol kg hydroxyl equivalent 1 000 g eq. 49.7 parts by mass of 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid 127.1 parts by mass of 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and 416.8 parts by mass of dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate were reacted in a mixed solvent of 492 parts by mass of methyl ethyl ketone. Thus an organic solvent solution of a urethane prepolymer having an isocyanate group at a molecular end thereof was prepared.

Next 37.5 parts by mass of triethylamine was added to the organic solvent solution of the urethane resin to neutralize some or all of carboxyl groups in the urethane resin. Furthermore 1 083 parts by mass of water was added thereto and the resulting mixture was sufficiently stirred. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure and a carboxyl group was prepared.

Next 34.4 parts by mass of a 25 mass aqueous solution of ethylenediamine was added to the aqueous dispersion and the resulting aqueous dispersion was stirred thereby conducting chain extension of the particulate polyurethane resin. Subsequently the aqueous dispersion was subjected to aging and removal of the solvent. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a urethane resin A 2 having a solid content of 30 by mass was prepared. The urethane resin A 2 thus prepared had an acid value of 30 a content of an alicyclic structure of 5.984 mmol kg calculated from a ratio of the charged starting materials and a weight average molecular weight of 70 000.

In a reaction vessel equipped with a stirrer a reflux condenser a nitrogen gas introducing tube a thermometer and dropping funnels 115 parts by mass of deionized water and 4 parts by mass of LATEMUL E 118B manufactured by Kao Corporation active ingredient 25 by mass were put and the temperature was increased to 75 C. while blowing nitrogen.

Part 5 parts by mass of a monomer pre emulsion prepared by mixing a vinyl monomer mixture containing 60.0 parts by mass of methyl methacrylate 38.0 parts by mass of n butyl acrylate and 2.0 parts by mass of methacrylic acid 4 parts by mass of Aquaron KH 1025 manufactured by Dai ichi Kogyo Seiyaku Co. Ltd. active ingredient 25 by mass and 15 parts by mass of deionized water was added to the reaction vessel under stirring. Subsequently 0.1 parts by mass of potassium persulfate was added thereto and polymerization was conducted for 60 minutes while maintaining the temperature in the reaction vessel at 75 C.

Next the rest 114 parts by mass of the monomer pre emulsion and 30 parts by mass of an aqueous solution active ingredient 1.0 by mass of potassium persulfate were respectively added dropwise over a period of 180 minutes using two dropping funnels while maintaining the temperature in the reaction vessel at 75 C. After the completion of the dropwise addition the resulting mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 60 minutes.

The temperature in the reaction vessel was decreased to 40 C. and aqueous ammonia active ingredient 10 by mass was used so that the pH of the aqueous dispersion in the reaction vessel became 8.5.

Subsequently deionized water was used so that the non volatile content became 20.0 by mass and the resulting mixture was then filtered with a 200 mesh filter cloth. Thus an aqueous dispersion of a vinyl polymer B 1 was prepared.

The aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A 1 and the aqueous dispersion of the vinyl polymer B 1 prepared above were mixed so that a ratio represented by aqueous dispersion of urethane resin A 1 aqueous dispersion of vinyl polymer B 1 was 100 350 solid content mass ratio 30 70 and deionized water was used so that the non volatile content became 20 by mass. The resulting mixture was then filtered with a 200 mesh filter cloth. Thus a resin composition I 1 for forming a receiving layer used in the present invention was prepared.

The resin composition I 1 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of receiving substrates II 1 each including a support and a receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

 i PET polyethylene terephthalate film manufactured by Toyobo Co. Ltd. Cosmoshine A4300 thickness 50 m 

In a reaction vessel equipped with a stirrer a reflux condenser a nitrogen gas introducing tube a thermometer a dropping funnel for dropping a monomer mixture and a dropping funnel for dropping a polymerization catalyst 140 parts by mass of deionized water and 100 parts by mass of the aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A 1 were put and the temperature was increased to 80 C. while blowing nitrogen.

In order to prepare a vinyl polymer B 2 constituting a core layer a monomer mixture containing 60.0 parts by mass of methyl methacrylate and 40.0 parts by mass of n butyl acrylate and 20 parts by mass of an aqueous solution of ammonium persulfate concentration 0.5 by mass were added dropwise to the reaction vessel the temperature of which was increased to 80 C. from the separate dropping funnels under stirring over a period of 120 minutes while maintaining the temperature in the reaction vessel at 80 C. 2 C. thus conducting polymerization.

After the completion of the dropwise addition the resulting mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 60 minutes. Thus an aqueous dispersion of composite resin particles C 1 each including a shell layer composed of the urethane resin A 1 and a core layer composed of the vinyl polymer B 2 was prepared.

The temperature in the reaction vessel was decreased to 40 C. and deionized water was used so that the non volatile content became 20.0 by mass. The resulting aqueous dispersion was then filtered with a 200 mesh filter cloth. Thus a resin composition I 2 for forming a receiving layer used in the present invention was prepared.

The above resin composition I 2 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of receiving substrates II 2 each including a support and a receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

Resin compositions I 3 to I 5 for forming a receiving layer the resin compositions each having a non volatile content of 20 by mass were prepared by the same method as described in Example 2 except that the type of urethane resin was changed to A 1 to A 3 described in Table 1 below and the composition of the vinyl monomers used in the production of the vinyl polymer was changed to the compositions described in Table 1 below.

Each of the above resin compositions I 3 to I 5 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of receiving substrates II 3 to II 5 each including a support and an ink receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

First 200 parts by mass of the resin composition I 2 for forming a receiving layer 3.0 parts by mass of a melamine compound Beckamine M 3 manufactured by DIC Corporation and deionized water were mixed to prepare a resin composition I 6 for forming a conductive receiving layer the resin composition having a non volatile content of 20 by mass.

The above resin composition I 6 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of ink receiving substrates II 6 each including a support and a receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

Resin compositions I 7 to I 11 for forming a receiving layer the resin compositions each having a non volatile content of 20 by mass were prepared by the same method as described in Example 2 except that the type of urethane resin was changed to A 1 to A 5 described in Table 1 below and the composition of the vinyl monomers used in the production of the vinyl polymer was changed to the compositions described in Tables 1 and 2 below.

Each of the above resin compositions I 7 to I 11 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of receiving substrates II 7 to II 11 each including a support and a receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

Resin compositions I 1 and I 2 for forming a receiving layer the resin compositions each having a non volatile content of 20 by mass were prepared by the same method as described in Example 2 except that the type of urethane resin was changed to A 1 and A 2 described in Table 1 below and the composition of the vinyl monomers used in the production of the vinyl polymer was changed to the compositions described in Table 2 below.

Each of the above resin compositions I 1 and I 2 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of receiving substrates I 1 and I 2 each including a support and a receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

An aqueous dispersion of the urethane resin A 1 prepared above was used as a resin composition I 3 for forming a receiving layer.

The resin composition I 3 for forming a receiving layer was applied onto surfaces of three types of supports represented by i to iii below using a bar coater so that the dry film thickness became 3 m. The resulting supports were dried at 70 C. for three minutes using a hot air dryer. Thus three types of receiving substrates II 3 each including a support and an ink receiving layer formed on the support were prepared.

Cross linking agent 1 melamine compound Beckamine M 3 manufactured by DIC Corporation trimethoxymethylmelamine 

The content of an alicyclic structure was calculated on the basis of the total mass of all the starting materials such as a polyol and a polyisocyanate which were used in the production of the urethane resin and the amount of substances of alicyclic structures included in compounds having alicyclic structures such as a polyol having an alicyclic structure and a polyisocyanate having an alicyclic structure the compounds being used in the production of the urethane resin.

A cellophane adhesive tape manufactured by Nichiban Co. Ltd. CT405AP 24 24 mm was applied onto a surface onto a receiving layer of each receiving substrate by pressing with a finger before printing was conducted. The cellophane adhesive tape was then peeled off in a direction at an angle of 90 degrees with respect to the surface of the receiving substrate. The adhesive surface of the peeled cellophane adhesive tape was visually observed. The adhesion was evaluated on the basis of the presence or absence of a substance adhering to the adhesive surface of the tape.

A receiving substrate in which no receiving layer adhered to the adhesive surface of the peeled cellophane adhesive tape was evaluated as A . A receiving substrate in which less than about 5 of the area of the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as B . A receiving substrate in which about 5 or more and less than 50 of the area of the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as C . A receiving substrate in which about 50 or more of the area of the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as D .

Printing was performed with solvent based pigment inks of nine colors below the inks each serving as a fluid and containing a glycol based highly polar solvent and a pigment on a surface of a receiving substrate prepared by using as a support the i PET polyethylene terephthalate film manufactured by Toyobo Co. Ltd. Cosmoshine A4300 thickness 50 m in an overlapping manner in the order described below using an ink jet printer SP 300V manufacture by Roland DG Corporation . Thus printed matter of 100 solid image to 400 solid image was obtained.

Printing properties of a printed image obtained by performing printing with the solvent based pigment inks were evaluated on the basis of the criteria below.

A No uneven color bleeding cracks and the like were generated on a printed image formed by using the total 400 ink and a uniform printed image was formed.

B No uneven color bleeding cracks and the like were generated on a printed image formed by using the total 300 ink . However bleeding and an uneven color were somewhat generated on a printed image obtained by performing printing on the above printed image using the total 400 ink .

C No uneven color bleeding cracks and the like were generated on a printed image formed by using the total 200 ink containing C 100 and M 100 the total 200 ink containing M 100 and Y 100 and the total 200 ink containing Y 100 and C 100 . However bleeding and an uneven color were generated on a printed image obtained by performing printing on the above printed image using the total 300 ink .

D No uneven color bleeding cracks and the like were generated on a printed image formed by using the C 100 ink the Y 100 ink the M 100 ink and the Bk 100 ink . However bleeding and an uneven color were generated on a printed image obtained by performing printing on the above printed image using the total 200 inks .

E Bleeding an uneven color cracks and the like were generated on a printed image even in each of the cases where printing was conducted using the C 100 ink the Y 100 ink the M 100 ink and the Bk 100 ink .

A solvent based nano silver ink 1 for ink jet printing was prepared by dispersing silver particles having an average particle diameter of 30 nm in a mixed solvent containing 65 parts by mass of diethylene glycol diethyl ether 18 parts by mass of butyrolactone 15 parts by mass of tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether and 2 parts by mass of tetraethylene glycol monobutyl ether.

A solvent based nano silver ink 2 for ink jet printing was prepared by dispersing silver particles having an average particle diameter of 30 nm in tetradecane serving as a solvent.

A straight line having a line width of 100 m and a film thickness of 0.5 m was printed on surfaces of the three types of receiving substrates obtained by using the supports i ii and iii so as to have a length of about 1 cm with each of the nano silver inks 1 and 2 for ink jet printing using an ink jet printer manufactured by Konica Minolta IJ Technologies Inc. ink jet testing device EB100 printer head for evaluation KM512L the amount of ejection 42 pL . The receiving substrates were then dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to prepare printed matter conductive patterns . In the case where the receiving substrates described in Examples 4 to 6 and 8 to 11 were used a cross linked structure was formed in the receiving layers through the drying step at 150 C. for 30 minutes after the printing was performed with the conductive inks. Whether the cross linked structure was formed or not was determined on the basis of a gel fraction of a conductive ink receiving layer formed by drying at room temperature 23 C. and then heating at 70 C. and a gel fraction of a conductive ink receiving layer formed by further heating at 150 C. as shown in Tables 3 and 4. Specifically when the gel fraction of a conductive ink receiving layer prepared by heating at 150 C. was increased by 25 by mass or more as compared with the gel fraction of a conductive ink receiving layer prepared by drying at room temperature and then heating at 70 C. non cross linked state it was determined that a cross linked structure was formed by high temperature heating.

The gel fraction of a receiving layer formed by drying at room temperature 23 C. and then heating at 70 C. was calculated by a method described below.

A resin composition for forming a receiving layer was poured onto a polypropylene film surrounded by thick paper so that a film thickness after drying became 100 m. The resin composition was dried at a temperature of 23 C. and a humidity of 65 for 24 hours and then heat treated at 70 C. for three minutes to form a receiving layer. The receiving layer was separated from the polypropylene film and then cut to have a size of 3 cm in length and 3 cm in width. This receiving layer was used as a test piece. The mass X of the test piece 1 was measured and the test piece 1 was then immersed in 50 mL of methyl ethyl ketone the temperature of which was adjusted to 25 C. for 24 hours.

A residue insoluble component of the test piece 1 that was not dissolved in methyl ethyl ketone by the immersion was filtered with a 300 mesh metal net.

The residue obtained above was dried at 108 C. for one hour and the mass Y of the dry residue was measured.

Next a gel fraction was calculated on the basis of a formula Y X 100 using the values of the masses X and Y .

The gel fraction of a receiving layer formed by heating at 150 C. was calculated by a method described below.

A resin composition for forming a receiving layer was poured onto a polypropylene film surrounded by thick paper so that a film thickness after drying became 100 m. The resin composition was dried at a temperature of 23 C. and a humidity of 65 for 24 hours and then dried by heating at 150 C. for 30 minutes to form a receiving layer. The receiving layer was separated from the polypropylene film and then cut to have a size of 3 cm in length and 3 cm in width. This receiving layer was used as a test piece 2. The mass X of the test piece 2 was measured and the test piece 2 was then immersed in 50 mL of methyl ethyl ketone the temperature of which was adjusted to 25 C. for 24 hours.

A residue insoluble component of the test piece 2 that was not dissolved in methyl ethyl ketone by the immersion was filtered with a 300 mesh metal net.

The residue obtained above was dried at 108 C. for one hour and the mass Y of the dry residue was measured.

Next a gel fraction was calculated on the basis of a formula Y X 100 using the values of the masses X and Y .

A straight line having a line width of 50 m and a film thickness of 1 m was printed on surfaces of the three types of receiving substrates obtained by using the supports i ii and iii so as to have a length of about 1 cm with the silver paste for screen printing using a metal mesh 250 screen printing plate. The receiving substrates were then dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to prepare printed matter conductive patterns .

Regarding the receiving substrates described in Examples 4 to 6 and 8 to 11 a cross linked structure was formed in the receiving layers through the drying step at 150 C. for 30 minutes after the printing was performed with the ink. The presence or absence of the cross lined structure was determined by the same method described above.

The entire printed portion line portion formed on the surface of the printed matter conductive pattern prepared by the method described above was observed with an optical microscope digital microscope VHX 100 manufactured by Keyence Corporation to check the presence or absence of bleeding of the printed portion.

Specifically in the case where bleeding was not observed on the outer edge of the printed portion line portion the boundary between the printed portion and the non printed portion was clear and there was no difference in height between the outer edge and a central portion of the line portion and the line portion was flat and smooth as a whole the printed matter was evaluated as A . In the case where bleeding was somewhat observed in a small portion of the outer edge of the printed portion line portion but the boundary between the printed portion and the non printed portion was clear and the line portion was flat and smooth as a whole the printed matter was evaluated as B . In the case where bleeding was somewhat observed within a range of about of the outer edge of the printed portion line portion and the boundary between the printed portion and the non printed portion was partially unclear in the bleeding portion but the line portion was flat and smooth as a whole and at such a level that the line portion could be used the printed matter was evaluated as C . In the case where bleeding was observed within a range of about to of the outer edge of the printed portion line portion the boundary between the printed portion and the non printed portion was partially unclear in the bleeding portion and the outer edge and a central portion of the line portion was not flat and smooth the printed matter was evaluated as D . In the case where bleeding was observed within a range of about or more of the outer edge of the printed portion line portion the boundary between the printed portion and the non printed portion was partially unclear in the bleeding portion and the outer edge and a central portion of the line portion was not flat and smooth the printed matter was evaluated as E .

A rectangular region area having a length of 3 cm and a width of 1 cm was printed on surfaces of two types of receiving substrates obtained by using the supports i and ii so as to have a film thickness of 0.5 m with the nano silver ink 1 for ink jet printing using an ink jet printer manufactured by Konica Minolta IJ Technologies Inc. ink jet testing device EB100 printer head for evaluation KM512L the amount of ejection 42 pL . The receiving substrates were then dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to prepare printed matter conductive patterns . In the case where the receiving substrates described in Examples 4 to 6 and 8 to 11 were used a cross linked structure was formed in the ink receiving layers through the drying step at 150 C. for 30 minutes after the printing was performed with the ink.

Furthermore a rectangular region area having a length of 3 cm and a width of 1 cm was printed on surfaces of two types of receiving substrates obtained by using the supports i and ii so as to have a film thickness of 1 m using the silver paste for screen printing with a metal mesh 250 screen printing plate. The receiving substrates were then dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to prepare printed matter conductive patterns .

The volume resistivity of a solid printed portion of the rectangular region having a length of 3 cm and a width of 1 cm and formed on the surface of the printed matter conductive pattern obtained by the method described above was measured using a LORESTA resistivity meter MCP T610 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation . Printed matter having a volume resistivity of less than 5 10 cm was evaluated as A . Printed matter which had a volume resistivity of 5 10 cm or more and less than 9 10 cm and which was at such a level that the printed matter could be satisfactorily used was evaluated as B . Printed matter which had a volume resistivity of 9 10 cm or more and less than 5 10 cm and which was at such a level that the printed matter could be used was evaluated as C . Printed matter having a volume resistivity of 5 10 cm or more and less than 9 10 cm was evaluated as D . Printed matter which had a volume resistivity of 9 10 cm or more and which was difficult to be used in practical applications was evaluated as E .

A solvent based plating nucleus agent 1 was prepared by dispersing silver particles plating nuclei having an average particle diameter of 30 nm in a mixed solvent containing 65 parts by mass of diethylene glycol diethyl ether 18 parts by mass of butyrolactone 15 parts by mass of tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether and 2 parts by mass of tetraethylene glycol monobutyl ether.

Solid printing of a square region area having a length of 5 cm and a width of 5 cm was conducted on surfaces of receiving substrates each obtained by using the support ii so as to have a film thickness of 0.5 m with the plating nucleus agent 1 using an ink jet printer manufactured by Konica Minolta IJ Technologies Inc. ink jet testing device EB100 printer head for evaluation KM512L the amount of ejection 42 pL . The receiving substrates were then dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to prepare printed matter. Regarding the receiving substrates described in Examples 4 to 6 and 8 to 11 a cross linked structure was formed in the receiving layers through the drying step at 150 C. for 30 minutes after the printing was conducted with the plating nucleus agent 1.

An activating agent ACE CLEAN A220 manufactured by Okuno Chemical Industries Co. Ltd. was applied onto the surface surface on which the plating nuclei were carried of the printed matter prepared above and an activating treatment of the plating nuclei was conducted at 55 C. for five minutes.

Subsequently an electroless copper plating solution OPC 750 manufactured by Okuno Chemical Industries Co. Ltd. was applied onto the surface on which the activating treatment had been conducted and an electroless copper plating process was conducted at 20 C. for 20 minutes.

Thus a conductive pattern X plating structure X was prepared in which a plating coating film composed of copper was formed on the surface that carries the plating nuclei thereon.

A cellophane adhesive tape manufactured by Nichiban Co. Ltd. CT405AP 24 24 mm was applied onto the surface of the plating film of the conductive pattern X plating structure X prepared above by pressing with a finger. The cellophane adhesive tape was then peeled off in a direction at an angle of 90 degrees with respect to the surface of the conductive pattern X plating structure X . The adhesive surface of the peeled cellophane adhesive tape was visually observed. The adhesion was evaluated on the basis of the presence or absence of a substance adhering to the adhesive surface of the tape.

A conductive pattern in which no substance adhered to the adhesive surface of the peeled cellophane adhesive tape was evaluated as A . A conductive pattern in which less than about 5 of the area of any of the metal plating silver and the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as B . A conductive pattern in which about 5 or more and less than 50 of the area of any of the metal plating silver and the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as C . A conductive pattern in which about 50 or more of the area of any of the metal plating silver and the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as D .

A solvent based plating nucleus agent 1 was prepared by dispersing silver particles plating nuclei having an average particle diameter of 30 nm in a mixed solvent containing 65 parts by mass of diethylene glycol diethyl ether 18 parts by mass of butyrolactone 15 parts by mass of tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether and 2 parts by mass of tetraethylene glycol monobutyl ether.

Solid printing of a square region area having a length of 5 cm and a width of 5 cm was conducted on surfaces of receiving substrates each obtained by using the support ii so as to have a film thickness of 0.5 m with the plating nucleus agent 1 using an ink jet printer manufactured by Konica Minolta IJ Technologies Inc. ink jet testing device EB100 printer head for evaluation KM512L the amount of ejection 42 L . The receiving substrates were then dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to prepare printed matter. Regarding the receiving substrates described in Examples 4 to 6 and 8 to 11 a cross linked structure was formed in the receiving layers through the drying step at 150 C. for 30 minutes after the printing was conducted with the plating nucleus agent 1.

An activating agent ACE CLEAN A220 manufactured by Okuno Chemical Industries Co. Ltd. was applied onto the surface surface on which the plating nuclei were carried of the printed matter prepared above and an activating treatment of the plating nuclei was conducted at 55 C. for five minutes.

Subsequently a copper sulfate plating solution TOP LUCINA 81SW manufactured by Okuno Chemical Industries Co. Ltd. was applied onto the surface on which the activating treatment had been conducted and an electrolytic plating process was conducted at 25 C. at 3 Amp and 90 min dm. Thus a conductive pattern Y plating structure Y was prepared in which a plating coating film composed of copper was stacked on the surface of the copper plating film of the conductive pattern X plating structure X .

A cellophane adhesive tape manufactured by Nichiban Co. Ltd. CT405AP 24 24 mm was applied onto the surface of the plating film of the conductive pattern Y plating structure Y prepared above by pressing with a finger. The cellophane adhesive tape was then peeled off in a direction at an angle of 90 degrees with respect to the surface of the conductive pattern X plating structure X . The adhesive surface of the peeled cellophane adhesive tape was visually observed. The adhesion was evaluated on the basis of the presence or absence of a substance adhering to the adhesive surface of the tape.

A conductive pattern in which no substance adhered to the adhesive surface of the peeled cellophane adhesive tape was evaluated as A . A conductive pattern in which less than about 5 of the area of any of the metal plating silver and the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as B . A conductive pattern in which about 5 or more and less than 50 of the area of any of the metal plating silver and the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as C . A conductive pattern in which about 50 or more of the area of any of the metal plating silver and the receiving layer relative to the adhering area of the adhesive tape was detached from the support and adhered to the adhesive tape was evaluated as D . A conductive pattern in which a plating film was separated during the plating process or plating was not deposited was evaluated as E .

The receiving substrates obtained in Example 1 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base and good adhesion to the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had excellent printing properties. Conductive patterns having an excellent fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

The receiving substrates obtained in Example 2 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had excellent printing properties. Conductive patterns having an excellent fine line forming property and an excellent electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

The receiving substrates obtained in Example 3 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base and good adhesion to the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had good printing properties. Conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

The receiving substrates obtained in Examples 4 and 5 contained a component that forms a cross linked structure and thus had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had excellent printing properties. Conductive patterns having an excellent fine line forming property and an excellent electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

In the receiving substrates obtained in Example 6 a cross linking agent was used in combination. Thus the receiving substrates obtained in Example 6 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had excellent printing properties. Conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

In the receiving substrates obtained in Example 7 a cross linking agent was used in combination. Thus the receiving substrates obtained in Example 7 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had good printing properties. Conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

The receiving substrates obtained in Examples 8 and 9 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had good printing properties. Conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

The receiving substrates obtained in Example 10 had good adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had excellent printing properties. Conductive patterns having an excellent fine line forming property and an excellent electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks.

The receiving substrates obtained in Example 11 had excellent adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base and good adhesion to the polyimide base and the glass base. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks had good printing properties. Conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property and having durability of such a level that the conductive patterns could withstand the plating processes could be obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the nano silver inks.

In contrast the receiving substrates obtained in Comparative Example 1 the receiving substrates being prepared by using a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in a ratio of 2 000 mmol kg or less did not have sufficient adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base in terms of practical use. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks also did not have satisfactory printing properties specifically for example bleeding occurred in the printed matter. Furthermore when printing was conducted on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks for example bleeding of an image line occurred in some cases. Thus conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property could not be obtained.

The receiving substrates obtained in Comparative Example 2 the receiving substrates being prepared by using a urethane resin having an alicyclic structure in a ratio of more than 5 500 mmol kg did not have sufficient adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base in terms of practical use. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks also did not have satisfactory printing properties specifically for example bleeding occurred in the printed matter. Furthermore when printing was conducted on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks for example bleeding of an image line occurred in some cases. Thus conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property could not be obtained.

The receiving substrates obtained in Comparative Example 3 the receiving substrates containing no vinyl polymer did not have sufficient adhesion to the polyethylene terephthalate base the polyimide base and the glass base in terms of practical use. The printed matter obtained by performing printing on the receiving substrate with the solvent based pigment inks also did not have satisfactory printing properties specifically for example bleeding occurred in the printed matter. Furthermore when printing was conducted on the receiving substrates with the nano silver inks for example bleeding of an image line occurred in some cases. Thus conductive patterns having a good fine line forming property and a good electrical conduction property could not be obtained.

