---

title: Filter material for a filter element of a smoking article, and associated system and method
abstract: A method and associated system are provided for forming a biodegradable filter material for a filter element of a smoking article, wherein the method involves combining cellulose acetate fibers with regenerated cellulose fibers, drawing the combined cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers to form drawn combined fibers, and crimping the drawn combined fibers to form a mixed fiber tow. An associated filter material for the filter element of a smoking article is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09119419&OS=09119419&RS=09119419
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 09119419
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121010
---
The present disclosure relates to products made or derived from tobacco or other smokable material that are intended for human consumption. In particular the disclosure relates to filter material for filter elements of smoking articles such as cigarettes and related methods for producing such filter material and associated filter elements.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes can have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and can include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises plasticized cellulose acetate tow circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap and the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping material. It also can be desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth in Tobacco Production Chemistry and Technology Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

The currently available filter technology for forming filter elements may have several drawbacks. For example conventional filter elements comprising a cellulose acetate tow although being characterized as biodegradable may require an undesirably long time to actually biodegrade. In some instances the biodegradation period may be on the order of two to ten years. In response alternate filter materials have been proposed such as gathered paper nonwoven polypropylene web or gathered strands of shredded web. However even if filter elements comprising such alternate materials exhibit accelerated biodegradability over conventional cellulose acetate tow filter elements the effect thereof on the mainstream smoke may not meet the expectations of the smoker. That is conventional cellulose acetate tow is generally plasticized with an appropriate plasticizer such as triacetin upon the tow being bloomed and formed into the filter rod from which the filter elements are obtained. In this regard the triacetin plasticizer provides a particular effect on the mainstream smoke i.e. taste that is pleasant to the smoker or has otherwise become expected by the smoker. One issue with alternate filter materials is that those materials may not necessarily blend with or suitably receive a plasticizer such as triacetin. That is even if such alternate filter materials receive the triacetin the effect of the combination on the mainstream smoke for example the taste of the smoke may not be pleasant to the smoker or otherwise be similar enough to the sensation expected by the smoker who is accustomed to the organoleptic properties associated with triacetin treated cellulose acetate tow filter elements.

Certain filter elements for cigarettes have been developed which contain materials that may promote biodegradation of filter elements following use. For example certain additives have been noted e.g. water soluble cellulose materials water soluble fiber bonding agents starch particles photoactive pigments and or phosphoric acid which can be added to filter materials to enhance degradability. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 913 311 to Ito et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 947 126 to Wilson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 970 988 to Buchanan et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 571 802 to Yamashita and US Pat. Appl. Publ. Nos. 2009 0151735 to Robertson and 2011 0036366 to Sebastian. In some cases conventional cellulose acetate filter material has been replaced with other materials such as moisture disintegrative sheet materials extruded starch materials or polyvinyl alcohol. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 709 227 to Arzonico et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 911 224 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 6 062 228 to Loercks et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 595 217 to Case et al. It has also been suggested that the incorporation of slits into a filter element may enhance biodegradability as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 947 126 to Wilson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 435 208 to Garthaffner. Biodegradability has also been proposed to be imparted by use of certain adhesives such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 453 144 to Kauffman et al. and US Pat. Appl. Publ. 2012 0000477 to Sebastian et al. Another possible means for enhancing biodegradability is replacing the conventional cellulose acetate filter material with a core of a fibrous or particulate cellulose material coated with a cellulose ester as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 344 349 to Asai et al.

Further advancements in filter elements and apparatuses and methods for producing the same may be desirable wherein such advancements maximize or otherwise enhance the biodegradability of the filter tow filter element while blending with conventional plasticizers to retain the sensory effects on the mainstream smoke i.e. smoke taste expected by the smoker.

The above and other needs are met by aspects of the present disclosure which in one aspect provides a method of forming a mixed fiber tow for a filter element of a smoking article. The invention in certain embodiments provides a mixed fiber tow suitable for use in filter elements of smoking articles that exhibits enhanced biodegradability as compared to conventional cigarette filters while still providing the desirable taste and filtration properties associated with conventional cigarette filters.

In one aspect the invention provides a method for forming a mixed fiber tow suitable for use in a filter element for a smoking article the method comprising combining a first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers with a second plurality of fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of fibers e.g. regenerated cellulose fibers to form a mixed fiber blend drawing the mixed fiber blend to reduce the denier per filament of the fibers of the mixed fiber blend and form a drawn fiber blend and crimping the drawn fiber blend to form a mixed fiber tow. The weight ratio of the two fiber types can vary but typically the weight ratio of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers to the second plurality of fibers is about 25 75 to about 75 25. The method can include further steps such as incorporating the mixed fiber tow into a filter element suitable for use in a smoking article which will typically entail one or more of blooming the mixed fiber tow and applying a plasticizer to the mixed fiber tow.

The first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the second plurality of fibers are typically undrawn or partially drawn prior to said combining step so that the fibers will not have a tendency to break during the subsequent drawing step. The arrangement of the two fiber types within the mixed fiber blend can vary. In certain embodiments the longitudinal axes of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the second plurality of fibers in the mixed fiber blend are disposed substantially parallel to each other. In another embodiment the fibers of the mixed fiber blend are arranged such that the fibers of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the fibers of the second plurality of fibers are one of alternatingly disposed and substantially uniformly interspersed with respect to each other over a cross section of the mixed fiber blend. In yet another embodiment the fibers of the mixed fiber blend are arranged such that one of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the second plurality of fibers is arranged to form a central core and the other of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the second plurality of fibers is arranged perimetrically about the central core with respect to a cross section of the mixed fiber blend.

Where a degradable filter element is desired the second plurality of fibers can comprise a degradable polymeric material such as aliphatic polyesters e.g. polylactic acid or a polyhydroxyalkanoate cellulose regenerated cellulose cellulose acetate with imbedded starch particles cellulose coated with acetyl groups polyvinyl alcohol starch aliphatic polyurethanes polyesteramides cis polyisoprene cis polybutadiene polyanhydrides polybutylene succinate proteins alginate and copolymers and blends thereof.

The mixed fiber tow typically has a total denier in the range of about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier such as about 30 000 denier to about 60 000 denier. Further the mixed fiber tow typically has a dpf in the range of about 3 to about 5.

In another aspect of the invention a method for forming a filter element for a smoking article is provided the method comprising receiving a mixed fiber tow comprising a blend of a first plurality of drawn and crimped cellulose acetate fibers and a second plurality of drawn and crimped fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of fibers the mixed fiber tow having a total denier in the range of from about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier and processing the mixed fiber tow to provide a filter element suitable for incorporation into a smoking article e.g. blooming the mixed fiber tow and or applying a plasticizer to the mixed fiber tow and or circumscribing the mixed fiber tow with plug wrap . The mixed fiber tow used in this aspect of the invention can have any of the characteristics noted above.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a filter element suitable for use in a smoking article the filter element comprising a mixed fiber tow comprising a blend of a first plurality of drawn and crimped cellulose acetate fibers and a second plurality of drawn and crimped fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of fibers the mixed fiber tow having a total denier in the range of from about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier. The mixed fiber tow of the filter element can have any of the characteristics noted herein. In certain embodiments the filter element of the invention exhibits a degradation rate that is at least about 50 faster than that of a traditional cellulose acetate filter element. The fibers of the mixed fiber tow of the filter element are typically arranged such that the fibers of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the fibers of the second plurality of fibers are one of alternatingly disposed and substantially uniformly interspersed with respect to each other over a cross section of the mixed fiber tow. Alternatively the fibers of the mixed fiber tow of the filter element are arranged such that one of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the second plurality of fibers is arranged to form a central core and the other of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers and the second plurality of fibers is arranged perimetrically about the central core with respect to a cross section of the mixed fiber tow. In certain embodiments the hardness of the filter element will be at least about 90 or at least about 92 or at least about 94 . Additionally in certain advantageous embodiments the mixed fiber tow will include at least about 50 by weight of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers e.g. at least about 60 or at least about 70 by weight of the first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers .

In yet another aspect the invention provides a cigarette or other smoking article comprising a rod of smokable material and a filter element according to any embodiment set forth herein.

A further aspect of the disclosure provides a system for forming a filter material for a filter element of a smoking article. Such a system can comprise a combining unit configured to combine a first plurality of cellulose acetate fibers with a second plurality of fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of fibers to form a mixed fiber blend a drawing unit configured to receive and draw the mixed fiber blend to form a drawn fiber blend and a crimping unit configured to receive and crimp the drawn fiber blend to form a mixed fiber tow. In certain embodiments the combining unit is configured to combine cellulose acetate fibers with regenerated cellulose fibers such that longitudinal axes thereof are disposed substantially parallel to each other in forming a mixed fiber blend. In some embodiments the combining unit is configured to combine cellulose acetate fibers with regenerated cellulose fibers such that the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers are one of alternatingly disposed and substantially uniformly interspersed with respect to each other over a cross section of the mixed fiber blend. In still further embodiments the combining unit is configured to combine cellulose acetate fibers with regenerated cellulose fibers such that one of the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers is arranged to form a central core and the other of the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers is arranged perimetrically about the central core with respect to a cross section of the mixed fiber blend. If desired the drawing unit can be configured to draw the mixed fiber blend such that the drawn fiber blend has a dpf in the range of about 3 to about 5. The system can also include a blooming unit configured to bloom the mixed fiber tow.

Aspects of the present disclosure can thus provide a biodegradable filter tow made by blending undrawn or partially drawn cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers then subjecting the combined fibers to a drawing step and then crimping the mixed fiber bundle to generate a mixed fiber tow. The ratio of the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers can be optimized to maximize biodegradability of the mixed fiber tow while retaining the ability to plasticize bloomed tow for example with triacetin such that the filter retains the desirable smoke taste.

The above and other aspects thus address the identified needs and provide advantages as otherwise detailed herein.

The present disclosure now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all aspects of the disclosure are shown. Indeed this disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The cellulose acetate fibers used in the present invention can be fibrous materials conventionally used to form fibrous tows for cigarettes. Cellulose acetate fibers are commercially available from for example Eastman Chemical Company. The first step in conventional cellulose acetate fiber formation is esterifying a cellulose material. Cellulose is a polymer formed of repeating units of anhydroglucose. Each monomer unit has three hydroxyl groups available for ester substitution e.g. acetate substitution . Cellulose esters can be formed by reacting cellulose with an acid anhydride. To make cellulose acetate the acid anhydride is acetic anhydride. Cellulose pulp from wood or cotton fibers is typically mixed with acetic anhydride and acetic acid in the presence of an acid catalyst such as sulfuric acid. The esterification process of cellulose will often result in essentially complete conversion of the available hydroxyl groups to ester groups e.g. an average of about 2.9 ester groups per anhydroglucose unit . Following esterification the polymer is typically hydrolyzed to drop the degree of substitution DS to about 2 to about 2.5 ester groups per anhydroglucose unit. The resulting product is typically produced in flake form that can be used in subsequent processing. To form a fibrous material the cellulose acetate flake is typically dissolved in a solvent e.g. acetone methanol methylene chloride or mixtures thereof to form a viscous solution. The concentration of cellulose acetate in the solution is typically about 15 to about 35 percent by weight. Additives such as whitening agents e.g. titanium dioxide can be added to the solution if desired. The resulting liquid is sometimes referred to as a liquid dope. The cellulose acetate dope is spun into filaments using a melt spinning technique which entails extruding the liquid dope through a spinerette. The filaments pass through a curing drying chamber which solidifies the filaments prior to collection.

In some embodiments as noted above the fibers blended with the cellulose acetate fibers comprise cellulose e.g. rayon . Cellulose can be natural or processed. In certain embodiments cellulose as used herein may refer to regenerated cellulose fibers. Regenerated cellulose fibers are typically prepared by extracting non cellulosic compounds from wood contacting the extracted wood with caustic soda followed by carbon disulfide and then by sodium hydroxide giving a viscous solution. The solution is subsequently forced through spinneret heads to create viscous threads of regenerated fibers. Exemplary methods for the preparation of regenerated cellulose are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 237 274 to Leoni et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 268 666 to Baldini et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 252 766 to Baldini et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 388 256 to Ishida et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 535 028 to Yokogi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 441 689 to Laity U.S. Pat. No. 5 997 790 to Vos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 8 177 938 to Sumnicht which are incorporated herein by reference. The manner in which the regenerated cellulose is made is not limiting and can include for example both the rayon and the TENCEL processes. Various suppliers of regenerated cellulose are known including Lenzing Austria Cordenka Germany Aditya Birla India and Daicel Japan . For use in the present invention cellulose fibers in certain embodiments are advantageously treated to provide a secondary finish that imparts acetyl functionality to the fiber surface. Coated cellulose fibers can be provided for example using methods as outlined in US Pat. Appl. Pub. Nos. 2012 0017925 2012 0000480 and 2012 0000479 all to Sebastian et al which are incorporated herein by reference. See also U.S. Pat. No. 4 085 760 to Toyoshima The combination of cellulose acetate and cellulose fibers is particularly beneficial as the biodegradation rate of cellulose acetate and cellulose fibers has been shown to be greater than the sum of individual fiber degradation rates i.e. the mixture biodegrades in a synergistic fashion . See U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 505 to Ducket et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

The fiber inputs to the process of the invention e.g. the cellulose acetate fibers and the regenerated cellulose fibers are typically in continuous filament form and can have varying denier per filament i.e. dpf . Denier per filament is a measurement of the weight per unit length of the individual filaments of the fibers and can be manipulated to achieve a desired pressure drop across the filter element produced from the fibers. An exemplary dpf range for the filaments comprising the fiber inputs can be about 1 to about 15 e.g. about 4 to about 12 or about 5 to about 10 where denier is expressed in units of grams 9000 meters although larger and smaller filaments can be used without departing from the invention. The shapes of the individual filament cross sections can also vary and can include but are not limited to multilobal e.g. exhibiting a shape such as an X Y H I or C shape rectangular circular or oblong.

The relative amounts of each fiber type utilized according to the methods of the invention can vary. For example the fiber inputs can be in roughly equal proportions by weight giving a final product comprising about 1 1 cellulose acetate fiber material regenerated cellulose fiber material. In some embodiments the inputs can be different such that greater than 50 of the input comprises cellulose acetate material or such that greater than 50 of the input comprises regenerated cellulose material. The weight ratio of cellulose acetate fiber input to second fiber input can be from about 1 99 to about 99 1 and typically from about 25 75 to 75 25. For example the mixed fiber bundle can be comprised of cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers in ratios of 30 70 40 60 50 50 60 40 70 30 or in any other ratio determined to provide the desired characteristics of the combined fibers yarns.

In certain embodiments it can be desirable to maximize the degradable input e.g. the regenerated cellulose so as to maximize the degradability of the resulting product. However maximizing the degradable input can in certain embodiments hinder the ability to plasticize the resulting blended fiber bundle e.g. with triacetin . In such embodiments therefore a certain level of cellulose acetate is advantageously maintained to ensure sufficient plasticization as well as the desirable taste and filtration properties of cellulose acetate.

In some instances the fiber inputs used in the present invention to form the mixed fiber bundle can be at most partially drawn prior to blending. That is since the mixed fiber bundle e.g. the combined fiber bundle formed from the cellulose acetate fibers and the regenerated cellulose fibers is drawn after the fibers are combined it can be desirable for the fiber inputs not to be fully drawn prior to being combined. As such if the cellulose acetate fibers or the regenerated cellulose fibers are drawn prior to being combined it may be desirable for those fibers to be partially drawn at most so as to allow the fibers to further elongate upon drawing the mixed fiber bundle being in a subsequent process. In certain embodiments the fiber inputs have at least about 50 elongation to break e.g. at least about 60 or at least about 70 remaining at the time of blending. Elongation to break EB and tenacity can be measured according to ASTM D 2256.

The cellulose acetate and regenerated cellulose fibers used as fiber inputs can be provided in different forms. In one aspect the fibers can be provided in the form of respective yarns. For example each yarn can be comprised of about 70 filaments at about 4 dpf so as to provide a yarn of about 300 total denier. The number of filaments dpf and total denier can vary without departing from the invention. In forming such yarns the fibers therein can be arranged so as to be substantially parallel to each other along the axis of the yarn. As such it may follow that upon combining the cellulose acetate fiber yarns with the regenerated cellulose fiber yarns the longitudinal axes of the yarns and or the fibers thereof can be disposed substantially parallel to each other to form a mixed fiber bundle.

In some aspects the cellulose acetate fibers and the regenerated cellulose fibers can be combined in different manners and or in different proportions as necessary or desired to accomplish the desired biodegradability of the resulting filter material. For example as shown in the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers can be combined such that the fibers and or yarns are alternatingly disposed or substantially uniformly interspersed with respect to each other over a cross section of the mixed fiber bundle. That is in some instances the cellulose acetate fibers yarns and the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns can each be arranged so as to be substantially uniformly distributed across the resulting mixed fiber bundle for example when viewed across the cross section thereof. As previously discussed the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns can enhance the biodegradability of the resulting filter material while the cellulose acetate fibers yarns can enhance the plasticizability of the combined fibers with a suitable plasticizer such as for example triacetin to maintain or enhance the flavor or other characteristics of the smoke expected by smokers users. Accordingly in some instances the substantially uniform arrangement of the respective fibers yarns can serve to enhance or balance these desired characteristics of the resulting filter material expected by smokers users. One skilled in the art will appreciate however that in other instances it can be desirable for the one type of the fibers yarns to be disposed about an outer perimeter of the mixed fiber bundle while the other type of the fibers yarns to be disposed within the outer perimeter see e.g. . For example the central core of the mixed fiber bundle can comprise the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns wherein the central core is then surrounded by a perimeter of cellulose acetate fibers yarns or vice versa. In such configurations the cellulose acetate fibers can be plasticized discretely from the regenerated cellulose fibers. In one instance the desired taste of the smoke associated with the smoking article can be achieved by a configuration in which the central core of the mixed fiber bundle comprises the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns and wherein the central core is then surrounded by a perimeter of cellulose acetate fibers yarns see e.g. .

As previously disclosed once the cellulose acetate fibers yarns and the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns have been combined into a mixed fiber bundle the mixed fiber bundle can then be drawn and crimped to form a mixed fiber tow. The drafting or drawing process generally results in reducing the weight yard of a fiber bundle and increasing its length. In such instances depending for example on the extent of the drawing process for the mixed fiber bundle the component yarns can be provided in a slightly higher denier per filament so as to facilitate the achievement of the desired total denier and denier per filament of the mixed fiber tow following the drawing process. For instance in one example the individual yarns of the cellulose acetate and or the regenerated cellulose fibers can be on the order of between about 6 denier per filament and about 8 denier per filament in order to achieve between about 3 denier per filament and about 5 denier per filament in the drawn mixed fiber tow e.g. with between about 20 000 total denier and about 80 000 total denier after the drawing process. It may also be desirable for the mixed fiber bundle to be heated prior to and or during the drawing process so as to facilitate drawing of the fibers therein.

A typical drawing process consists of multiple drawing stages using equipment known in the art. In one embodiment the mixed fiber bundle is withdrawn from a creel and passed through several draw stands each consisting of several rollers that apply tension to the fiber bundle. In between the draw stands the fiber bundle can pass through a heated water bath a steam chest heated rolls or combinations thereof. The number of draw stands can vary but 2 to 4 draw stands are used in a typical drawing process.

Following drawing the mixed fiber bundle is subjected to a crimping step. Crimp is texture or waviness of individual fibers or the mixed fiber bundle as a whole. Crimp frequency which is reported in crimps per inch cpi is an indirect measure of the bulk of the material. In some embodiments crimping can generally involves passing the fiber bundle through rollers and into a stuffing box or stuffer box wherein friction generates pressure causing the fibers to buckle. Various crimp levels can be provided. For example in some embodiments the crimp level can be from about 10 to about 30 crimps per inch e.g. about 15 to about 26 crimps per inch. Crimp can also be expressed in terms of crimp ratio with an exemplary crimp ratio range of about 1.2 to about 1.8. The crimp frequency can be measured according to ASTM D3937 94.

Once the mixed fiber tow is drawn and crimped the drawn and crimped mixed fiber tow can be processed into a filter element of a smoking article in a similar manner to conventional cellulose acetate tow. For example the mixed fiber tow can be bloomed to form the filter element of the smoking article wherein the blooming process can also involve or otherwise be associated with a plasticizing process in which a suitable plasticizer such as triacetin carbowax and or triethyl citrate is applied to the bloomed mixed fiber tow.

In another aspect of the disclosure a biodegradable filter material for a filter element of a smoking article can be provided wherein such a filter material comprises a mixed fiber tow including drawn and crimped combined fibers and wherein the combined fibers including cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers. Such a filter material can be formed according to the disclosed methods so as to have the advantageous characteristics as otherwise disclosed herein.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a system for forming a biodegradable filter material for a filter element of a smoking article indicated generally by element in . In some instances such a system can comprise a combining unit configured to combine cellulose acetate fibers with regenerated cellulose fibers such as rayon fibers. For example bobbins of the cellulose acetate fibers yarns and the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns can be engaged with a creel not shown wherein the fibers yarns can then be directed to the combining unit to be combined into a mixed fiber bundle having a desired total denier. The combining unit can also be configured to process the fibers yarns such that the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers are one of alternatingly disposed and substantially uniformly interspersed with respect to each other over a cross section of the mixed fiber bundle see e.g. . In other instances the combining unit can be configured to combine the cellulose acetate fibers with regenerated cellulose fibers such that one of the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers is arranged to form a central core and the other of the cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers is arranged perimetrically about the central core with respect to a cross section of the mixed fiber bundle see e.g. . In any instance the combining unit can be configured to combine the cellulose acetate fibers yarns with the regenerated cellulose fibers yarns such that longitudinal axes thereof are disposed substantially parallel to each other in forming the mixed fiber bundle.

The system can further comprise a drawing unit configured to receive the mixed fiber bundle from the combining unit and to draw the combined cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers to form drawn combined fibers . As disclosed the drawing unit can be configured to draw the combined cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers to form a drawn mixed fiber bundle of between about 20 000 total denier and about 80 000 total denier. A crimping unit can be configured to receive and crimp the drawn combined fibers to form a mixed fiber tow . In some instances the drawing unit and or the crimping unit can be configured to apply heat i.e. by way of an appropriate heating arrangement or device such as a water bath or steam chest or heated rolls to the fibers yarns being drawn and or crimped as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. At this point in the process the drawn and crimped fibers can be dried and formed into a tow for later use in a cigarette filter making process. Alternatively as shown in the mixed fiber tow can pass directly into filter making processing equipment such as a blooming device . The bloomed tow can then be plasticized via application of a plasticizer such as triacetin thereto by an appropriate plasticizer application device . If desired the mixed fiber tow can also pass through a finish applicator not shown if a finish is to be applied to the fiber.

The mixed fiber tow can be wrapped with a plug wrap such that each end of the filter material remains exposed. The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1100 CORESTA units to about 26000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the mixed fiber tow with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

If desired so called non wrapped acetate filter segments can also be produced. Such segments are produced using the types of techniques generally set forth herein. However rather than employing a plug wrap that circumscribes the longitudinally extending periphery of the filter material a somewhat rigid rod is provided for example by applying steam to the shaped mixed fiber tow. Techniques for commercially manufacturing non wrapped acetate filter rods are possessed by Filtrona Corporation Richmond Va.

Filter material such as the mixed fiber tow disclosed herein can be processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit. For example filter tow can be bloomed using bussel jet methodologies or threaded roll methodologies. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. and as Candor ITM Tow Processor from International Tobacco Machinery. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art can be employed.

In some aspects other types of filter materials such as gathered paper nonwoven polypropylene web or gathered strands of shredded web can be provided in addition to the components of the mixed fiber tow disclosed herein and can be processed for example using the types of materials equipment and techniques set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al.

Filter elements for smoking articles such a filtered cigarettes can be provided from filter rods manufactured from the mixed fiber tow using traditional types of cigarette making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 434 585 to Holmes and U.S. Pat. No. 7 296 578 to Read Jr. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

Cigarette filter rods can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod with or without objects inserted therein. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured for example using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Filter rods can be manufactured using a rod making apparatus and an exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit. Representative rod forming units are available as KDF 2 KDF 2E KDF 3 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and as Polaris ITM Filter Maker from International Tobacco Machinery.

Filter elements formed according to the invention typically exhibit a hardness that is comparable to filter elements made from conventional cellulose acetate tow. The amount of plasticizer added to the filter rod and the denier per filament of the filter tow can significantly affect hardness of the filter. Filter hardness is a measurement of the compressibility of the filter material. A test instrument that can be used for harness testing is a D61 Automatic Hardness Tester available from Sodim SAS. This instrument applies a constant load e.g. 300 g to the sample for a fixed period of time e.g. 3 to 5 seconds and digitally displays the compression value as a percentage difference in the average diameter of the filter element. In certain embodiments the filter element of the invention exhibit a hardness of at least about 90 more often at least about 92 and most often at least about 94 e.g. about 90 to about 99 more typically about 94 to about 98 . Testing procedures for cigarette filter hardness are described for example in Example 5 below and in U.S. Pat. No. 3 955 406 to Strydom and U.S. Pat. No. 4 232 130 to Baxter et al. both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Filter elements produced in accordance with this disclosure can be incorporated within conventional cigarettes configured for combustion of a smokable material and also within the types of cigarettes set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 756 318 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 714 082 to Banerjee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 771 795 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 793 365 to Sensabaugh et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 989 619 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 917 128 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 961 438 to Korte U.S. Pat. No. 4 966 171 to Serrano et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 969 476 to Bale et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 991 606 to Serrano et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 020 548 to Farrier et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 027 836 to Shannon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 033 483 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 040 551 to Schlatter et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 050 621 to Creighton et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 052 413 to Baker et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 065 776 to Lawson U.S. Pat. No. 5 076 296 to Nystrom et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 076 297 to Farrier et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 099 861 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 835 to Drewett et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 837 to Barnes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 115 820 to Hauser et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 148 821 to Best et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 940 to Hayward et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 178 167 to Riggs et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 183 062 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 211 684 to Shannon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 240 014 to Deevi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 240 016 to Nichols et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 345 955 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 911 to Casey I I I et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 551 451 to Riggs et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 595 577 to Bensalem et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 727 571 to Meiring et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 751 to Barnes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 089 857 to Matsuura et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 095 152 to Beven et al and U.S. Pat. No. 6 578 584 to Beven which are incorporated herein by reference. Still further filter elements produced in accordance with the description provided above can be incorporated within the types of cigarettes that have been commercially marketed under the brand names Premier and Eclipse by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. See for example those types of cigarettes described in Chemical and Biological Studies on New Cigarette Prototypes that Heat Instead of Burn Tobacco R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Monograph 1988 and Inhalation Toxicology 12 5 p. 1 58 2000 which are incorporated herein by reference. Other examples of non traditional cigarettes commonly referred to as e cigarettes which could incorporate a filter element of the present invention include U.S. Pat. No. 7 726 320 to Robinson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 8 079 371 to Robinson et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 205 841 to Worm et al. filed on Aug. 9 2011 Ser. No. 13 432 406 to Griffith Jr. et al. filed on Mar. 28 2012 and Ser. No. 13 536 438 to Sebastian et al filed on Jun. 28 2012 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The smokable material employed in manufacture of the smokable rod can vary. For example the smokable material can have the form of filler e.g. such as tobacco cut filler . As used herein the terms filler or cut filler are meant to include tobacco materials and other smokable materials which have a form suitable for use in the manufacture of smokable rods. As such filler can include smokable materials which are blended and are in a form ready for cigarette manufacturer. The filler materials normally are employed in the form of strands or shreds as is common in conventional cigarette manufacture. For example the cut filler material can be employed in the form of strands or shreds from sheet like or strip materials which are cut into widths ranging from about 1 20 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably from about 1 25 inch to about 1 35 inch. Generally such strands or shreds have lengths which range from about 0.25 inch to about 3 inches.

Examples of suitable types of tobacco materials include flue cured Burley Md. or Oriental tobaccos rare or specialty tobaccos and blends thereof. The tobacco material can be provided in the form of tobacco lamina processed tobacco processed tobacco stems such as cut rolled or cut puffed stems reconstituted tobacco materials or blends thereof. The smokable material or blend of smokable materials can consist essentially of tobacco filler material. Smokable materials can also be cased and top dressed as is conventionally performed during various stages of cigarette manufacture.

Typically the smokable rod has a length which ranges from about 35 mm to about 85 mm preferably about 40 to about 70 mm and a circumference of about 17 mm to about 27 mm preferably about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm. Short cigarette rods i.e. having lengths from about 35 to about 50 mm can be employed particularly when smokable blends having a relatively high packing density are employed.

The wrapping material can vary and typically is a cigarette wrapping material having a low air permeability value. For example such wrapping materials can have air permeabilities of less than about 5 CORESTA units. Such wrapping materials include a cellulosic base web e.g. provided from wood pulp and or flax fibers and inorganic filler material e.g. calcium carbonate and or magnesium hydroxide particles . A suitable wrapping material is a cigarette paper consisting essentially of calcium carbonate and flax. Particularly preferred wrapping materials include an amount of a polymeric film forming agent sufficient to provide a desirably low air permeability. Exemplary wrapping materials 164 are P 2540 80 P 2540 81 P 2540 82 P 2540 83 P 2540 84 and P 2831 102 available from Kimberly Clark Corporation and TOD 03816 TOD 05504 TOD 05560 and TOD 05551 available from Ecusta Corporation.

The packing densities of the blend of smokable materials contained within the wrapping materials can vary. Typical packing densities for smokable rods can range from about 150 to about 300 mg cm. Normally packing densities of the smokable rods range from about 200 to about 280 mg cm.

The cigarette making operations will include attaching the mixed fiber tow based filter element to the smokable rod. For example the filter element and a portion of the smokable rod can be circumscribed by a tipping material with an adhesive configured to bind to the filter element and the tobacco rod so as to couple the mixed fiber tow based filter element to an end of the tobacco rod.

Typically the tipping material circumscribes the filter element and an adjacent region of the smokable rod such that the tipping material extends about 3 mm to about 6 mm along the length of the smokable rod. Typically the tipping material is a conventional paper tipping material. The tipping material can have a permeability which can vary. For example the tipping material can be essentially air impermeable air permeable or be treated e.g. by mechanical or laser perforation techniques so as to have a region of perforations openings or vents thereby providing a means for providing air dilution to the cigarette. The total surface area of the perforations and the positioning of the perforations along the periphery of the cigarette can be varied in order to control the performance characteristics of the cigarette.

Accordingly cigarettes or other smokable articles can be produced in accordance with the above described example embodiments or under various other embodiments of systems and methods for producing cigarettes. The cigarette making operations performed after production of the mixed fiber tow as described above may in certain embodiments be substantially the same as those performed in traditional systems for producing smoking articles. Thus existing cigarette production equipment can be utilized. It is noted that the system for forming cigarettes can also include other apparatuses and components that correspond with the operations discussed above.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the mouth end is positioned a mixed fiber tow . The mixed fiber tow can be produced by the apparatuses systems and methods disclosed herein. The mixed tow based filter element can have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof can be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod . The mixed tow based filter is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of outer plug wrap to form a filter element. The filter element is positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough.

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap . The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping material . For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution means to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette. The mixed tow based filter element can be attached to the tobacco rod using the tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping material that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another to form the cigarette .

Certain cigarettes or other smoking articles made according to the method of the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 mm and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. In certain embodiments cigarettes of the invention exhibit pressure drop values of between about 70 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 80 min to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Quality Test Modules QTM Series available from Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd.

Although the present disclosure focuses on biodegradable filter element embodiments comprising cellulose acetate fibers and regenerated cellulose fibers the invention is also applicable to other combinations of dissimilar fiber types using the methods systems and apparatuses described herein. In some embodiments the two or more dissimilar fibers can be characterized as having different filtration properties or exhibiting different levels of biodegradability. By combining such fibers in the same filter element using the apparatuses systems and methods of the present disclosure the overall level of biodegradability of the filter element can be adjusted to a desired level or the filtration efficiency with respect to specific solid or gaseous components of mainstream smoke can be adjusted as desired. Examples of combinations of fiber types exhibiting different filtration characteristics can be found for example in US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2012 0024304 to Sebastian et al. which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In some embodiments by combining different fiber types in the same filter element using the apparatuses systems and methods of the present disclosure the filter element incorporated within a cigarette can achieve the desired function e.g. desired level of biodegradability and or filtration efficiency while providing the user with acceptable taste characteristics typically associated with traditional cellulose acetate based filter elements. Any of the fiber types disclosed herein could be used as a substitute for the regenerated fiber input taught herein and can exhibit the same filament yarn characteristics e.g. dpf total denier filament cross section etc. taught herein without departing from the invention.

For example in certain embodiments the second fiber input other than cellulose acetate is any degradable e.g. biodegradable fiber. The term biodegradable as used in reference to a degradable polymer refers to a polymer that degrades under aerobic and or anaerobic conditions in the presence of bacteria fungi algae and or other microorganisms into carbon dioxide methane water and biomass although materials containing heteroatoms can also yield other products such as ammonia or sulfur dioxide. Biomass generally refers to the portion of the metabolized materials incorporated into the cellular structure of the organisms present or converted to humus fractions indistinguishable from material of biological origin.

Biodegradability can be measured for example by placing a sample in environmental conditions expected to lead to decomposition such as placing a sample in water a microbe containing solution a compost material or soil. The degree of degradation can be characterized by weight loss of the sample over a given period of exposure to the environmental conditions. Exemplary rates of degradation for certain filter element embodiments of the invention include a weight loss of at least about 20 after burial in soil for 60 days or a weight loss of at least about 30 after 15 days of exposure to a typical municipal composter. However rates of biodegradation can vary widely depending on the type of degradable particles used the remaining composition of the filter element and the environmental conditions associated with the degradation test. U.S. Pat. No. 5 970 988 to Buchanan et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 571 802 to Yamashita provide exemplary test conditions for degradation testing. The degradability of a plastic material also can be determined using one or more of the following ASTM test methods D5338 D5526 D5988 D6400 and D7081. Other degradability testing methods include ISO Method 9408 and Biochemical Methane Potential BMP testing.

In certain embodiments the mixed fiber tow of the invention can be used to produce smoking article filters e.g. cigarette filters wherein the filter element exhibits a degradation rate that is faster than that of a conventional cellulose acetate filter element i.e. 100 cellulose acetate filter tow . Exemplary degradation rates for certain embodiments of the present invention include at least about 50 faster than conventional CA filter elements or at least about 60 or at least about 70 faster. The rate of degradation can be determined using various means such as percentage of carbon conversion oxidation or oxygen uptake.

Exemplary biodegradable materials that can be used in a fibrous form in the present invention include aliphatic polyesters cellulose regenerated cellulose cellulose acetate fibers with imbedded starch particles polyvinyl alcohol starch aliphatic polyurethanes polyesteramides cis polyisoprene cis polybutadiene polyanhydrides polybutylene succinate proteins alginate and copolymers and blends thereof. Additional examples of biodegradable materials include thermoplastic cellulose available from Toray Industries Inc. of Japan and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 984 631 to Aranishi et al. which is incorporated by reference herein and thermoplastic polyesters such as Ecoflex aliphatic aromatic copolyester materials available from BASF Corporation or poly ester urethane polymers described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 087 465 to Sepp l et al. which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Any of these biodegradable fibers can further include a cellulose acetate coating on the outer surface thereof.

Exemplary aliphatic polyesters advantageously used in the present invention have the structure C O R O wherein n is an integer representing the number of monomer units in the polymer chain and R is an aliphatic hydrocarbon preferably a C1 C10 alkylene more preferably a C1 C6 alkylene e.g. methylene ethylene propylene isopropylene butylene isobutylene and the like wherein the alkylene group can be a straight chain or branched. Exemplary aliphatic polyesters include polyglycolic acid PGA polylactic acid PLA e.g. poly L lactic acid or poly DL lactic acid polyhydroxyalkanoates PHAs such as polyhydroxypropionate polyhydroxyvalerate polyhydroxybutyrate polyhydroxyhexanoate and polyhydroxyoctanoate polycaprolactone PCL polybutylene succinate polybutylene succinate adipate and copolymers thereof e.g. polyhydroxybutyrate co hydroxyvalerate PHBV .

Various other degradable materials suitable for use in the present invention are set forth for example in US Pat. Appl. Pub. Nos. 2009 0288669 to Hutchens 2011 0036366 to Sebastian 2012 0000479 to Sebastian et al 2012 0024304 to Sebastian and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 194 063 to Sebastian et al. filed Jul. 29 2011 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

In some embodiments one of the fiber inputs comprises standard cellulose acetate fibers and one of the fiber inputs comprises carbon fibers ion exchange fibers and or catalytic fibers. Carbon fibers can be described as fibers obtained by the controlled pyrolysis of a precursor fiber. Sources of carbon fibers include Toray Industries Toho Tenax Mitsubishi Sumitomo Corporation Hexcel Corp. Cytec Industries Zoltek Companies and SGL Group. Exemplary commercially available carbon fibers include ACF 1603 15 and ACF 1603 20 available from American Kynol Inc. Examples of starting materials methods of preparing carbon containing fibers and types of carbon containing fibers are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 319 629 to Chamberlain U.S. Pat. No. 3 413 982 to Sublett et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 904 577 to Buisson U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 876 078 to Arakawa et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 947 874 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 230 960 to Iizuka U.S. Pat. No. 5 268 158 to Paul Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 5 338 605 to Noland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 446 005 to Endo U.S. Pat. No. 5 482 773 to Bair U.S. Pat. No. 5 536 486 to Nagata et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 622 190 to Arterbery et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 376 to Panter et al. and U.S. Pat. Publication Nos. 2003 0200973 to Xue et al. 2006 0201524 to Zhang et al. 2006 0231113 to Newbery et al. and 2009 0288672 to Hutchens all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Ion exchange fibers are fibers capable of ion exchange with gas phase components of mainstream smoke from a smoking article. Such fibers are typically constructed by imbedding particles of an ion exchange material into the fiber structure or coating the fiber with an ion exchange resin. The amount of ion exchange material present in the fiber can vary but is typically about 10 to about 50 percent by weight based on the total weight of the ion exchange fiber more often about 20 to about 40 percent by weight. Exemplary ion exchange fibers are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 944 485 to Rembaum et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 361 to Economy et al both of which are incorporated by reference herein. Ion exchange fibers are commercially available for example from Fiban of Belarus and Kelheim Fibers GmbH of Germany. Exemplary products from Fiban include FIBAN A 1 monofunctional strong base fiber with N CH Cl functional group FIBAN AK 22 1 polyfunctional fiber with EN NH and COOH functional groups FIBAN K 1 monofunctional strong acid fiber with SOH functional group FIBAN K 3 polyfunctional fiber with COOH NH and NH functional groups FIBAN K 4 monofunctional weak acid fiber with COOH functional group FIBAN X 1 iminodiacetic fiber FIBAN K 1 1 strong acid fiber similar to FIBAN K 1 modified by potassium cobalt ferrocyanide FIBAN A 5 polyfunctional fiber with N CH NH and COOH functional groups FIBAN A 6 and A 7 polyfunctional fiber with strong and weak base amine groups FIBAN AK 22B polyfunctional fiber similar to FIBAN K 3 and FIBAN S monofunctional fiber with FeOH functional group . One exemplary product from Kelheim Fibers is the Poseidon Fiber.

Catalytic fibers are fibers capable of catalyzing the reaction of one or more gas phase components of mainstream smoke thereby reducing or eliminating the presence of the gas phase component in the smoke drawn through the filter element. Exemplary catalytic fibers catalyze oxidation of one or more gaseous species present in mainstream smoke such as carbon monoxide nitrogen oxides hydrogen cyanide catechol hydroquinone or certain phenols. The oxidation catalyst used in the invention is typically a catalytic metal compound e.g. metal oxides such as iron oxides copper oxide zinc oxide and cerium oxide that oxidizes one or more gaseous species of mainstream smoke. Exemplary catalytic metal compounds are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 182 348 to Seehofer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 317 460 to Dale et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 956 330 to Elliott et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 050 621 to Creighton et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 340 to Augustine et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 475 to McCormick U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 475 to McCormick U.S. Pat. No. 7 011 096 to Li et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 152 609 to Li et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 165 553 to Luan et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 862 to Hajaligol et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 509 961 to Saoud et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 549 427 to Dellinger et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 410 to Pillai et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 566 681 to Bock et al. and US Pat. Publication Nos. 2002 0167118 to Billiet et al. 2002 0172826 to Yadav et al. 2002 0194958 to Lee et al. 2002 014453 to Lilly Jr. et al. 2003 0000538 to Bereman et al. 2005 0274390 to Banerjee et al. 2007 0215168 to Banerjee et al. 2007 0251658 to Gedevanishvili et al. 2010 0065075 to Banerjee et al. 2010 0125039 to Banerjee et al. and 2010 0122708 to Sears et al. all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Catalytic fibers can be constructed by for example imbedding particles of a catalytic material into the fiber structure or coating the fiber with a catalytic material such as metal oxide particles. The amount of catalytic material present in the fiber can vary but is typically about 10 to about 50 percent by weight based on the total weight of the ion exchange fiber more often about 20 to about 40 percent by weight. International Application No. WO 1993 005868 also incorporated herein by reference describes the use of catalytic fibers formed by coating a surface treated hopcalite material which is a material including both copper oxides and manganese oxides available from the North Carolina Center for Research located in Morrisville N.C. onto a fibrous support.

By way of example cotton and or regenerated cellulose having ion exchange groups introduced thereto can be employed for example as an ion exchange fiber configured for vapor absorption. By way of further example polylactic acid and or polyhydroxyalkanoate can be employed as one or more fibers for improved biodegradability. Activated carbon fibers can also be employed for improved particle filtration and or improved vapor absorption. The fibers can include any other fibers which can be selected for improved biodegradability improved particulate filtration improved vapor absorption and or any other beneficial aspect associated with the fibers. For further examples see the material compositions set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Thereby for example the aspects of cellulose acetate that may be desirable e.g. taste and filtration may be retained while offering other functionality e.g. improved biodegradability improved particulate filtration and or improved vapor absorption .

The following yarns are used to prepare a mixed fiber tow 1 Chromspun cellulose acetate fibers black in color 2 Estron cellulose acetate fibers white in color and 3 Carotex rayon natural fibers. The Chromspun cellulose acetate fibers available from Eastman Chemical Company have a tenacity of 1.38 g denier and a maximum elongation of 32 . The Estron cellulose acetate fibers available from Eastman Chemical Company are characterized as 300 denier 76 filaments and have a 3.94 dpf. The tenacity of the Estron cellulose acetate fibers is 1.50 g denier and the maximum elongation is 30 . The Carotex rayon fibers available from KCTex Hickory N.C. are characterized as 300 denier 76 filaments and have a 3.94 dpf. The tenacity of the rayon fibers is 1.89 g denier with a maximum elongation of 32 . The black and white cellulose acetate fibers are used in order to visually assess the uniformity of the fiber blending.

The fiber inputs are processed on a fiber production system that included the following in sequence 1 a first draw stand 2 a water bath 3 a second draw stand 4 a steam chest 5 a third draw stand 6 a finish applicator 7 a crimper with steam addition 8 a drying oven with conveyor belt 9 a tension stand and 10 a tow bailer. Blends are prepared having three cellulose acetate rayon ratios based on total number of filaments within blend 70 30 cellulose acetate rayon 50 50 cellulose acetate rayon and 30 70 cellulose acetate rayon.

The two yarn types cellulose acetate and rayon are arranged on a creel so that maximum mixing is achieved. The final total denier exiting the creel is approximately 40 000. Hence the 70 30 ratio run has 94 acetate yarns and 40 rayon yarns making a total denier of 40 200. The 50 50 blend run has 68 acetate yarns and 66 rayon yarns making a total denier of 40 200. The 30 70 blend run has 48 acetate yarns and 82 rayon yarns making a total denier of 39 000. The collected yarn bundles are run at a speed of 58 meters minute without draw and then pass through a finish applicator bath that applies approximately 2.5 finish by weight of the fiber. The fiber bundle is then passed through a crimp roller while maintaining a pressure of 40 psi. The cheek plate pressure is 50 psi and the flapper pressure is 10 psi. The crimps per inch of the fiber bundle entering dryer is about 20 25. The dryer temperature is 40 C.

All there tow fiber blends have relatively low breaking strength compared to conventional cellulose acetate tow when subjectively assessed. During a very short period the above runs are altered by applying a 1.2 draw on the yarn bundle with hot water bath maintained at 55 60 C. which improves the resulting tow bundle strength significantly. Mixing in each tow blend is judged to be good based on visual inspection of the placement of the white and black cellulose acetate fibers within the tow bundle.

Several mixed fiber tows were tested for biodegradation in a marine environment per ASTM D7081 specification standard with ASTM D 6691 test method. The following samples are evaluated 1 samples of three mixed fiber tows made using a fiber bundle from each run of Example 1 2 samples of tow fibers prepared from 100 rayon and 100 cellulose acetate available from Lenzing and Eastman Chemical Company respectively and 3 a positive control of cellulose paper and a negative control of polyethylene LDPE plastic wrap. All samples are placed in a controlled warm and humid environment of 30 C. for 60 days in marine water. The biodegradation is evaluated by measuring COgas which evolves from the degrading compostable samples while in 5 liter jars. The samples are tested in triplicate for each material.

The 60 day results are shown in . In the table RAY stands for rayon and CA stands for cellulose acetate. The mixed fiber tow with 50 cellulose acetate and 50 rayon biodegraded approximately 4 the mixed fiber tow with 70 cellulose acetate and 30 rayon biodegraded approximately 3.3 the tow with 100 rayon biodegraded approximately 3.3 the mixed fiber tow with 30 cellulose acetate and 70 rayon biodegraded approximately 3.2 the tow with 100 cellulose acetate biodegraded approximately 2 the positive control of cellulose biodegraded approximately 6 and the negative control LDPE plastic biodegraded approximately 1 . Thus this data indicates that mixing rayon with cellulose acetate does increase the rate of biodegradation as compared to 100 cellulose acetate tow and there may be some synergistic effect associated with certain CA rayon combinations based on the fact that the 50 50 blend biodegraded at a higher rate than 100 rayon.

The BMP test is a measure of a material s susceptibility to anaerobic biodegradability in a landfill environment. In the BMP test a small quantity of a material 1 gm is added to triplicate 160 ml serum bottles that are sealed. Each bottle contains 1 biological growth medium with required nutrients 2 an inoculum of microorganisms that has been maintained on residential refuse i.e. a lignocellulosic substrate and 3 the test material. At each inoculation 5 controls are monitored to measure background methane production associated with the inoculum. Samples are incubated at 37 C. and analyzed after 16 31 45 and 61 days to determine volume of methane in each bottle although most of the methane is produced within 30 days. Results are reported as ml CH dry gin of test material. See Wang Y. S. Byrd C. S and M. A. Barlaz 1994 Anaerobic Biodegradability of Cellulose and Hemicellulose in Excavated Refuse Samples Journal of Industrial Microbiology 13 p. 147 53. The BMP test is applied to various mixed fiber tows in the present example.

The BMP results and carbon conversion data are presented in Table 1 below. All data has been corrected for background methane associated with the inoculum. As illustrated by the results the rayon exhibits anaerobic biodegradation while the cellulose acetate does not. Interestingly when cellulose acetate is mixed with rayon biodegradability increases relative to rayon alone. This suggests a synergistic interaction where either the presence of cellulose acetate stimulates additional rayon conversion or cellulose acetate is biodegradable when mixed with rayon. The carbon conversion was calculated on the assumption that 1 mole of COis produced for each mole of CHas only CHis quantified. The 1 1 ratio is accurate for carbohydrates e.g. cellulose and will vary somewhat for other materials. In the table CA refers to cellulose acetate and RAY refers to rayon.

A test is conducted to assess aerobic biodegradability of rayon and cellulose acetate fibers as well as three blends prepared according to Example 1 and a control in an aerobic environment. The test is conducted using ISO Method 9408 Ready Biodegradability to measure the oxygen uptake required for biodegradation over time. The test plan consists of measuring oxygen uptake over a testing period using an RSA Pulse Flow aerobic respirometer system to test each sample at an initial fiber concentration that provides about 100 mg l of carbon which is about 300 mg l theoretical oxygen demand THOD . The seed culture is aerobic mixed liquor from the Paul R. Noland Wastewater Treatment Plant in Fayetteville Ark. USA. The tests temperature is 25 C. Nutrients trace minerals and buffer are added as indicated by the ISO 9408 protocol.

Data for the fiber tests through fourteen days of operation is shown in which graph changes in oxygen uptake A and percentage of carbon conversion B over time. The shape of the oxygen uptake curves relative to that for the control and as a percentage of THOD indicates the biodegradability of the blended test fibers. These data show rapid biodegradation of the acetate control substrate and slower biodegradation of the fiber materials. The highest percent biodegradation for the fiber materials is with the 100 rayon sample. Biodegradation of the cellulose acetate fibers is very low. Biodegradation of the rayon cellulose acetate blends is somewhat proportional to the percent rayon.

Cigarette filters are prepared using conventional filter making equipment using the three blends prepared according to Example 1 and a control conventional cellulose acetate tow . The conventional tow and the three mixed fiber tows are plasticized with triacetin and filter rod segments are prepared and tested for pressure drop and hardness. Pressure drop values in mm water are measured using a Filtrona Quality Test Modules QTM Series available from Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd. A D61 Automatic Hardness Tester made by Sodim SAS can be used for hardness testing where the instrument applies a constant compression load 300 g to the sample for a fixed period of time 3 to 5 seconds and digitally displays the compression value expressed as percent compression according to the formula Hardness D A D 100 where D is the original mean diameter of the filter segment and A is the average compressed diameter of the filter segment.

Data for the tested filters is set forth in Table 2 below. The data includes triacetin weight percentage as percentage of overall filter segment weight weight of the tested filter segment size of the tested filter segment pressure drop of the tested filter segment and hardness of the tested filter segment.

The 30 70 CA Rayon and 50 50 CA Rayon blends are difficult to process on the equipment due to low strength. In particular those blends do not have sufficient strength to allow the tow to be opened into a tow band of sufficient width for adequate plasticization. The 70 30 CA rayon blend while stronger than the other two mixed fiber tows is able to be opened only to a tow band width of approximately 4 inches compared to about 12 inches for conventional CA tow . Even with the relatively narrow tow band the 70 30 CA Rayon blend is able to be plasticized to an extent sufficient to generate a hardness level that is relatively close to conventional cigarette filters. This testing confirm that mixed fiber tows according to the invention can be made into cigarette filter segments that exhibit pressure drop and hardness characteristics that are similar to conventional cigarette filters.

As noted in Example 1 the fiber drawing process for the tested mixed fiber tows included use of a water bath. Rayon fibers are relatively hydrophilic. Accordingly the use of a water bath likely has a significant negative effect on strength of the mixed fiber tow. It is believed that processing the mixed fiber tows in a manner that avoids excessive exposure to water may significantly enhance strength of the tow and improve how effectively such those materials can be processed using cigarette filter machines.

Many modifications and other aspects of the disclosure set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this disclosure pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

