---

title: Graphic user interface and software for processing large size signal data samples in a small buffer using automatically adjusted decimation ratio
abstract: A method for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with a number of GUI's and an adaptive decimation ratio in a computer allows processing data files and signal data files within a given data segment for a better fit into a limited-size working space buffer and provides improved resolution of data segments in a simplified way using GUI's that allow the user to point and click at a computer screen instead of performing manual calculations. A large data segment is adaptively decimated to a smaller size automatically so that a lower resolution version of the data segment will be loaded into a fixed-size small buffer in hardware working space for further data editing. The decimation and loading process will be repeated until the user finds the desired data-section of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635551&OS=08635551&RS=08635551
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08635551
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120216
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to me of any royalty thereon.

This invention is related to a patent application entitled Method Computer Program And Apparatus to Analyze Large Size Signal Samples In a Small Buffer Using An Automatically Adjusted Decimation Ratio which was filed by the inventor herein on Apr. 28 2003 and assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 429 350.

The invention generally relates to the reviewing searching and editing of data files and digitally sampled signal data files. In particular the invention relates to Graphical User Interface software apparatus and methods for processing and analyzing data with an adaptive decimation ratio and without loading the entire data into the working space buffer.

Most digitally recorded communication signal files have a very large data size due to the over sampling and continuous monitoring in signal collection and recording. Generally some current computer or signal processing equipments afford only a very limited buffer size for data processing. Due to an order of magnitude size disparity between large communication signal files and limited data processing buffer sizes the review editing and search of any large communication signal data file with uncertain contents often becomes a very lengthy tedious time consuming and inefficient process. Additionally the procedures employed by the user are often quite labor intensive. In many signal analysis or signal intelligence applications only a small section of the entire data file will be important to the operator. Typically a tedious and time consuming prescreen routine requires the user to load the large data file on a section by section basis into a small buffer for review until the user finally identifies the data section that is desired. An illustrative example of the difference between the size of a large data file and a limited size working space buffer is a disparity of 100 GB and 100 MB.

Thus there has been a long felt need for processes and techniques that overcome the problems disadvantages limitations and shortcomings of loading large data files section by section into a small buffer for further user review and processing. An adaptive trimming or decimation method could edit or tailor large files efficiently in a fixed size small buffer. Graphical User Interface software apparatus and methods used during decimation will satisfy the long felt need for processes apparatus and software that overcome the numerous problems disadvantages limitations and shortcomings of loading large data files into small buffer areas and the subsequent manual search. The present invention provides a user friendly Graphical User Interface GUI software program to edit data files including data signal files with an adaptive decimation ratio that decimates or trims the size of the desired large data segment in order to better fit into the buffer for further data processing without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art techniques and devices.

It is an object of the present invention to provide GUI editing software to rapidly analyze and edit data files and signal data files to better fit into the working space buffer for further processing in a less complex way.

It is another object of the present invention to rapidly analyze and edit data files and signal data files with GUI editing software apparatus and methods to better fit into the working space buffer for further processing in a simplified way with GUI s.

It is still another object of the present invention to rapidly analyze and edit data files and signal data files with GUI editing software apparatus and methods in connection with adaptively decimating the data segment to better fit into the working space buffer for further processing in a simplified way using GUI s to allow the user to point and click at a computer screen.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for rapidly analyzing and editing data files including digitized signal data files with GUI editing software in connection with adaptively decimating the data segment to better fit into the working space buffer for further processing and provide improved resolution of data file segments in a simplified way using GUI s to allow the user to point and click at a computer screen instead of performing manual calculations.

These and other objects and advantages can now be attained by this invention s user friendly GUI computer software program apparatus and methods that rapidly analyze and edit data files and signal data files within a given data segment for a better fit into the working space buffer to enable further processing and provide improved resolution of data segments in a simplified way using GUI s that allow the user to point and click at a computer screen instead of performing manual calculations. In accordance with the present invention the large data segment is adaptively decimated to a smaller size automatically so that a lower resolution version of the data segment will be loaded into a fixed size small buffer in hardware working space for further data editing. The segment size is varying during the GUI data editing such as zoom in and zoom out and the decimation ratio is updated automatically based on the variation of segment size. The decimation and loading process will be repeated until the user finds the desired data section of interest. The best resolution of the data segment is insured during the time of fitting the varying large size data segment into the fixed small size buffer. A number of GUI s such as POPUP MENU EDIT BLOCK and DISPLAY BLOCK as well as virtual buttons such as RADIO BUTTON and PUSH BUTTON provide calculating and editing functions that allow the user to accomplish decimation in a faster and simpler way than current methods and programs. The GUI s of the present invention allow a soldier or other non engineering technical user to initiate complex calculations with point and click computer software without any user intervention and thereby simplify the required calculations.

The present invention also contemplates a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with GUI s and an adaptive decimation ratio and an apparatus for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with GUI s and an adaptive decimation ratio. The methods and other embodiments of the present invention process both signal data files and data files. This inventor s related patent application entitled Method Computer Program And Apparatus to Analyze Large Size Signal Samples In a Small Buffer Using An Automatically Adjusted Decimation Ratio was assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 429 350 and is hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates the overall operation of this invention s method for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with a plurality of Graphical User Interfaces GUI s and an adaptive decimation ratio in a computer. The first part of the process is a selection step followed by a calculation step and then a loading to buffer step . The selection step further comprises choosing a data segment with known data format and data type for analysis which is represented by Block . The user may edit default parameters in Block exit in Block or open a help window in Block .

During the calculation step the method and computer program of this invention calculates a decimation ratio with a real data formula or a complex data formula as the case may be. A real number has only one data sample. A complex number has two data samples which are a real data sample and an imaginary data sample. In the first case of the real number where dis a real data sample in the data file and i 1 2 . . . Lis an integer this equation represents a data file segment with M data samples that is loaded into a computer s working space buffer for processing 1 p 1 p M 1 L and M 1 If the data has B bytes resolution per sample we have M B bytes for M samples in the segment. Calculating the decimation ratio is based on the data and buffer sizes.

In the case of complex data the data file is denoted by d jd where i 1 2 . . . Lare integers and Lis an even integer and each sample in the data file has a pair of elements as follows 4 q 1 q N 1 L N 1 If the data has B bytes resolution per sample we have 2N B bytes for N number of complex data samples. If the working space buffer has only limited W bytes of space and W

Now referring to the data segment selection step further comprises a number of operations that start with selecting the data segment from a means for data storage. Block represents choosing a file name from a list of file names by clicking on a file format recognition POPUP MENU GUI with bold capitol letters intentionally selected to differentiate GUI s and virtual buttons from other aspects of this invention in the specification and drawings e.g. Block POPUP MENU is a GUI. The GUI software program of the present invention will recognize the format of the chosen file in Block . In Block the software inquires whether the file format is known and if the file type is unknown the precision type of the file will be selected by clicking from an option list on a file type recognition GUI POPUP MENU in Block . In those cases when the file precision type is not listed in the menu the user can type that information into a GUI display EDIT BLOCK . After determining the file format the file size is detected by this invention s software and the file header is displayed in a file size GUI DISPLAY BLOCK . As discussed above the data type could be either real data or complex data which can be selected in decimation type virtual RADIO BUTTON GUI . If it is a complex signal both the real parts and imaginary parts will be read accordingly. The sampling rate or frequency is typed in the GUI display EDIT BLOCK . If the sampling rate is not entered a default value will be assigned in a default frequency editing GUI EDIT BLOCK instructing the user to type in the highest frequency.

The decimation type is selected by virtual RADIO BUTTON and can be either Auto Decimation or Edited Decimation. When the Edited Decimation option is chosen the software s adaptive decimation will be disabled and the data segment will be decimated and loaded to working space with the given decimation ratio. In this case the size of decimated data segment may be larger than the size of the buffer so that the size of the segment may be cut shorter and may not display the entire waveform envelope where waveform is defined as the data sample values versus the sample index of the data segment. When Auto Decimation is selected the decimation ratio will be calculated automatically using the real data equation 2 or the complex data equation 5 to ensure the decimated data loaded into the working space buffer in subsequent operations is distributed evenly in the data segment so that the entire waveform envelope may be viewed in a lower resolution.

Block inquires whether the data types and loading methods have been chosen. After determining the data type and decimation type the data segment is loaded to the buffer by clicking on a loading virtual PUSH BUTTON GUI . Windows for plotting and analyzing data waveforms will then be generated on the computer screen in Block . For example in the case of signal processing the plots will be time versus magnitude time versus frequency frequency versus magnitude and frequency versus phase. The initial starting time and ending time are chosen for data loading in Block . The data segment is defined by starting time and ending time. The description of the data loading process continues at Point A in .

Referring now to there is depicted the calculation step in greater detail beginning at Point A. In accordance with the present invention the decimated data loading process is continually repeated each time whenever the size of data segment is changed which is whenever the value of starting time or the value of ending time is updated due to the editing of data waveform. Decimation Type Block asks whether the auto decimation or edited decimation process is used. If a user selected Decimation Ratio in Block is not available then auto decimation will be enabled to calculate the decimation ratio using the real data equation 2 or the complex data equation 5 . After calculating the decimation ratio the satisfactory of Nyquist Criterion is checked in Block . If it is not satisfied a warning will be reported in DISPLAY BLOCK . It should be noted that the purpose of adaptive decimation is to limit the data size while keeping the waveform envelop. Therefore the violation of Nyquist Criterion is allowed during the data editing. However before saving the data Block Nyquist Criterion has to be met to ensure the correct data sampling. If it is not a zoom in option or a user entered decimation ration will be applied. The decimation ratio should be rounded to an integer in Block and should not be less than 1 in Block . The decimation ratio will be displayed to the user for reference in a display decimation ratio GUI DISPLAY BLOCK . Next if the data or signal file is collected as complex numbers both real parts and imaginary parts need to be decimated and loaded in Block where the complex data is loaded into 2 columns to the work space from the starting time to the ending time with the decimation ratio. Similar to the windows displaying graphic plots in Block Block also permits graphic plotting of various signal processing parameters such as plots of time versus magnitude time versus frequency frequency versus magnitude and frequency versus phase. Block also permits printing the plotted figures or saving them in a file for future use. The data segment in the buffer can also be edited as depicted in and the detailed description of this invention continues at Point D in .

Referring now to the loading to buffer step is illustrated in greater detail including selections from a group plurality of editing features such as editing zoom unzoom sliding left and sliding right of the signal waveform. Block represents the selection of zoom in or sliding. When the user selects the zoom option Block allows setting the left time margin as the new starting time and right time margin as the new ending time for zooming in with the prior starting time and the ending time being stored in a storage variable file called zoom log for un zoom process represented by Block . The zoom time margin is selected manually by using the computer mouse and the right margin should not be less than the left margin which is depicted as Left Limit

If the sliding option is selected the GUI SLIDING BAR Block can shift the data waveform plot and Block allows shifting the plot to either the left or the right. The sliding is bounded by the first and last data in the data file in Left End Block and Right End Block . Whenever sliding to the right end is chosen Subtract Step Size Block subtracts a sliding step size from the current starting time and current ending time. By contrast whenever the sliding to left end is chosen Add Step Size Block adds a sliding step size to the current starting time and current ending time. Block represents sending the new starting time and new ending time to Point A of to calculate the new adaptive decimation ratio.

The method of the present invention can also include a number of variations. For example variations such as repeating the calculating and loading steps as needed to achieve the necessary resolution the step of analyzing real data the step of calculating a real data decimation ratio R the step of analyzing complex data the step of calculating a complex data decimation ratio Rand so forth are considered within the contemplation of the present invention. Additionally the methods of the present invention also contemplate rapidly analyzing and editing either data file samples or data signal samples with an adaptive decimation ratio. When the data file is a data signal file the desired data segment is a desired waveform segment the decimated data segment is a decimated waveform segment and the improved resolution data segment is an improved resolution data signal segment.

This invention also encompasses an apparatus for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with a number of GUI s and an adaptive decimation ratio in a computer. Referring now to the apparatus comprises a means for data storage that provides a data segment for loading into a limited sized working space buffer a means for file format recognition having a file format recognition POPUP MENU GUI in Block for selecting a file name for the data segment a means for file type recognition with a file type recognition POPUP MENU GUI for a file type a default parameter edit option in EDIT BLOCK GUI displays a default data such as buffer size and sliding overlap size while a means for file size detecting having a file size DISPLAY BLOCK GUI displays a file size for the data segment. A means for data display with a data virtual RADIO BUTTON GUI displays a real data selection and a complex data selection and a means for sampling frequency editing and a means for default frequency editing permit selecting from a sampling frequency editing EDIT BLOCK GUI and a default frequency editing EDIT BLOCK GUI . A means for decimation type selection having a virtual RADIO BUTTON GUI displays an auto decimation selection and an edited decimation selection. When Edited Decimation is chosen the software s adaptive decimation will be disabled and the data segment will be decimated and loaded to the working space buffer with the given decimation ratio. When Auto Decimation is selected the decimation ratio will be calculated automatically using the real data equation 2 or the complex data equation 5 to ensure the decimated data loaded into the working space buffer in subsequent operations is distributed evenly in the data segment so that the entire waveform envelope may be viewed in a lower resolution. After determining the data type and decimation type a means for loading data with a loading virtual PUSH BUTTON GUI loads the data segment to the buffer. Windows for plotting and analyzing data waveforms will then be generated on the computer screen in Block .

Referring now to a means for calculation calculates the adaptive decimation ratio in Block A for real data or Block B for complex data. A plurality of data waveforms are plotted at point D and editing one of the waveforms generates an updated data segment starting time an updated data segment ending time and a plurality of decimated data segments. The data loading means continually loads the plurality of decimated data segments and the Nyquist criterion DISPLAY BLOCK GUI s and provide a plurality of Nyquist selections. A means for decimation ratio display having a display decimation ratio DISPLAY BLOCK GUI displays the adaptive decimation ratio. Referring now to a plurality of editing features including a means for editing a means for zooming a means for unzooming a means for sliding left and a means for sliding right are provided with the zooming means being activated by a zoom in virtual PUSH BUTTON GUI the unzooming means being activated by an unzoom virtual PUSH BUTTON GUI and the sliding left means and sliding right means being activated by a sliding bar virtual PUSH BUTTON GUI . The updated data segment starting time and the updated data segment ending time being readjusted in Block and continually recalculating the adaptive decimation ratio as needed and further decimating the decimated data segments to provide an improved resolution data segment fitting into the working space buffer.

The present invention can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of computer program code embodied in tangible media such a floppy diskettes CD ROM s hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments combine with the microprocessor to provide a unique device that operates analogously to specific logic circuits.

This invention also encompasses a storage medium encoded with machine readable computer program code for rapidly analyzing and editing data files with a number of GUI s and an adaptive decimation ratio. Referring now to the storage medium comprises a means for computer data storage providing a data segment for loading into a limited sized working space buffer a means for computer file format recognition having a file format recognition POPUP MENU GUI in Block a means for computer file type recognition with a file type recognition POPUP MENU GUI and a default parameter edit option in EDIT BLOCK GUI displays a default data such as buffer size and sliding overlap size. A means for computer file size detecting having a file size DISPLAY BLOCK GUI displays the file size and a means for data display with a data virtual RADIO BUTTON GUI displays a real data selection and a complex data selection. A means for sampling frequency editing and a means for default frequency editing permit selecting from a sampling frequency editing EDIT BLOCK GUI and a default frequency editing EDIT BLOCK GUI . A means for decimation type selection having a virtual RADIO BUTTON GUI displays auto decimation and edited decimation selections. After determining the data type and decimation type a means for loading computer data with a loading virtual PUSH BUTTON GUI loads the data segment to the buffer. Windows for plotting and analyzing data waveforms will then be generated on the computer screen in Block .

Referring now to a means for causing the computer to calculate calculates the adaptive decimation ratio in Block A for real data or Block B for complex data. A plurality of data waveforms are plotted at point D and a means for causing the computer to edit one of the waveforms generates an updated data segment starting time an updated data segment ending time and a plurality of decimated data segments. The data loading means continually loads the plurality of decimated data segments. Nyquist criterion DISPLAY BLOCK GUI s and provide a plurality of Nyquist selections. A means for decimation ratio display having a display decimation ratio DISPLAY BLOCK GUI displays the adaptive decimation ratio. Referring now to a number of editing features such as a means for editing a means for zooming a means for unzooming a means for sliding left and a means for sliding right are provided. The updated data segment starting time and the updated data segment ending time being readjusted in Block and continually recalculating the adaptive decimation ratio as needed and further decimating the decimated data segments to provide an improved resolution data segment fitting into the working space buffer.

The variations in the method of the present invention can also apply to the and apparatus and computer program embodiments of this invention. The apparatus embodiment of this invention may be either a means for data processing a computer or hardware.

It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

