---

title: Method and system to audit physical copy data leakage
abstract: A document handling device receives a request to perform a task on document data, the document data comprising at least one of an electronic document to be converted by the document handling device into a non-digital form or a physical document received by the document handling device in the non-digital form. Responsive to receiving the request, the document handling device makes a determination as to whether the requested task violates a data loss prevention policy, and performs an action based on the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146953&OS=09146953&RS=09146953
owner: SYMANTEC CORPORATION
number: 09146953
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121217
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 215 582 filed Jun. 27 2008 entitled A METHOD AND SYSTEM TO AUDIT PHYSICAL COPY DATA LEAKAGE which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments of the invention relate to the field of processing data and more particularly to auditing data leakage.

Employees of a modern organization often deal with various documents concerning significant business aspects of the organization. These documents may include data on customers or patients contracts deliveries supplies employees manufacturing or the like. Existing security techniques typically monitor handling of document data in digital form by employees to prevent loss of sensitive information. Document data in digital form may include data stored in databases or repositories data transferred in electronic messages e.g. email and text messages data copied to hard drives or compact discs and the like.

Documents handled by employees of an organization are not limited to digital data and include a large number of physical paper documents. Devices that handle physical documents include for example printers scan machines fax machines and copy machines. Over the last decade these devices have become increasingly connected controlled and audited. In modern organizations many of these devices are now full blown IT devices with network and email connectivity. Often they run embedded operating systems e.g. Windows Embedded XP of Microsoft Corporation and include storage devices such as hard drives. These storage devices can provide a trivial means for attackers to circumvent otherwise strongly controlled environments. In addition existing data leakage controls can be evaded by using paper documents produced by printers copiers and fax machines.

A method and system for auditing data leakage is described. In one embodiment the method includes receiving a user request to perform a task on document data with a document handling device. The document data may be associated with an electronic document to be converted by the document handling device into a non digital form e.g. paper or with a physical document received by the document handling device in a non digital form. The method further includes determining whether the requested task violates a data loss prevention policy and recording in an audit trail information identifying the requested task and the digital data and an indication of whether the requested task violates the data loss prevention policy.

A method and system for auditing data leakage is described. Data leakage can occur when a document handling device transfers a document from a digital form to a non digital form or vice versa. A document handling device can be for example a printer a copy machine a scan machine a fax machine or any combination of the above. In one embodiment as document data is sent to the document handling device e.g. when requesting network printing or read from a scan head of the document handling device e.g. when requesting scanning copying or faxing a copy of the document data is sent to a queue of the document handling device. Items from the queue are then processed to determine whether they violate a data loss prevention DLP policy. This processing can be performed by a DLP violation detector hosted by the document handling device or it can be performed at least partially by a separate server. Information identifying the requested task and the document data is stored in an audit trial together with a policy violation indicator.

In one embodiment the document handling device delays the execution of the requested task until the DLP processing is completed and then determines whether the requested task can proceed based on the result of the DLP processing. In an alternative embodiment the document handling device allows the requested task to proceed in parallel with the DLP processing. In this alternative embodiment remediation actions can be taken at a later time based on information recorded in the audit trail.

In the following description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed description that follows are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining displaying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

Document handling devices are also coupled to the network e.g. using server message block SMB protocol to provide various functionalities to the employees of the organization. Document handling devices transfer documents from a digital form to a non digital form or vice versa and may include for example printers copy machines fax machines scan machines combinations of copy and scan machines and the like. Document handling devices may provide user identification capability using for example fingerprint identifiers user personal code identifiers etc. In addition document handling devices may provide auditing capability including for example storing characteristics of the task being performed e.g. number of copies identifications of parties associated with the task etc. and reporting to a central server such as a monitoring server .

In one embodiment each document handling device hosts a data loss prevention DLP system that detects violations of DLP policies and extends the devices auditing capability to record such violations and report them to the monitoring server . A DLP policy may specify conditions that trigger a violation based on regulations concerning handling of sensitive information maintained by an organization or based on corporate data governance rules. The regulations may include for example the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA ensuring the confidentiality of electronic protected health information California Senate Bill 1 SB1 or Senate Bill 1386 SB1386 controlling customer information leaving the company and affiliates the Gramm Leach Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act controlling customer information leaving a financial institution the Cardholder Information Security Program CISP controlling handling of customer credit card information maintained by an organization or the like. The corporate data governance rules may control additional aspects of handling use restricted documents within an organization. A use restricted document represents a document that cannot be freely distributed or manipulated due to its sensitive nature. Use restricted documents may optionally include specific logos watermarks and stamps confidential sensitive stock etc. to indicate their sensitive nature.

In one embodiment the DLP system performs the entire DLP processing and auditing and reports detected violations to the monitoring server . Alternatively the DLP system performs the DLP processing and or auditing in cooperation with a server s module as will be discussed in more detail below. The server may be the monitoring server or some other server coupled to the document handling devices via the network .

The server module may include a policy manager and a policy violation reporter . The policy manager is responsible for receiving parameters pertaining to policies such as pre configured template policies or customized policies and creating DLP policies based on these parameters. In one embodiment the policy manager receives the policy parameters via a policy definition user interface UI . In another embodiment the policy manager receives the policy parameters from an Application Programming Interface API or via a configuration file formatted in text or a defined data format e.g. extensible markup language XML or binary format .

As discussed above the DLP policies may be created based on regulations concerning handling of sensitive information maintained by an organization or based on corporate data governance rules. In one embodiment the policy manager may use policy templates or customized policies pre configured based on input provided by individuals familiar with the relevant regulations or corporate data governance rules.

A DLP policy may specify conditions for triggering a violation. For example a DLP policy may indicate that a violation will be triggered if a document containing certain use restricted characteristics e.g. the stamp confidential is requested to be handled in a specific manner e.g. copied scanned faxed or printed . In another example a DLP policy may indicate that a violation will be triggered if a requested number of copies to be made from a document containing certain use restricted characteristics exceeds a predefined threshold. In yet another example a DLP policy may indicate that a violation will be triggered if a document containing certain use restricted characteristics is printed or copied in a specific form e.g. on certain paper types without letterheads without a confidential stamp or watermark etc. . In still another example a DLP policy may indicate that a violation will be triggered if the document to be faxed copied scanned or printed includes protected data such as keywords or content from a protected source e.g. database containing sensitive information or is similar to at least one of a collection of use restricted documents. In yet another example a DLP policy may indicate that a violation will be triggered if a document containing certain use restricted characteristics is requested to be faxed to a specific destination e.g. specific fax number . In still another example a DLP policy may indicate that a violation will be triggered if a document e.g. a fax containing certain use restricted characteristics is requested to be received by an unauthorized user.

A DLP policy may also differentiate between different user security levels. That is a set of conditions may trigger a violation if a user has a security level below a threshold and may not trigger a violation if the user has a security level equal to or above the threshold.

Once the DLP policies are created or modified the policy manager may transfer them to the DLP system residing on the document handling device. The policy manager may transfer the same DLP policies to all document handling devices on the corporate network. Alternatively the policy manager may transfer only relevant subsets of the DLP policies to individual document handling devices depending on their characteristics. For example the policy manager will transfer to copy machines only DLP policies that pertain to copying. The policy manager may transfer all current DLP policies periodically or only those that have been modified or added.

The policy violation reporter is responsible for receiving information regarding policy violations from the DLP system and creating reports based on this information. The reports may be created for system administrators and or other employees of an organization e.g. for a supervisor of a user that caused a violation . In addition or alternatively the policy violation reporter may generate a violation notification and send it to appropriate individuals or systems e.g. via email text message pager alert etc. .

The DLP system includes a persistent queue a queue manager a DLP agent and an audit trail . The queue manager receives user requests for tasks to be performed on document data with the document handling device and sends the document data to the queue . In one embodiment the queue manager sends a copy of document data to the queue upon receiving the document data at the document handling device e.g. for network printing or upon reading the document data from the scan head of the document handling device e.g. for scanning faxing and copying . The document handling device may be a special purpose PC including persistent internal storage and therefore the queue can be very large.

In one embodiment the queue manager stores the document data in the queue together with information identifying the requested task and the user that requested the task. The information identifying the requested task may include for example an identifier of the underlying operation e.g. copy scan etc. and other task data such as a requested number of copies a requested destination or recipient of the task e.g. when faxing a document a customer for which the task is requested to be performed e.g. when copying or scanning a document etc. The information identifying the user may include the user ID and the user s security level.

In one embodiment the items in the queue are stored in the order in which they were received at the queue . In another embodiment the items in the queue are stored based on user security levels to allow items with the highest user security level to be processed first. In addition the tasks to be performed can be placed in the queue in the order they were requested or based on the users security levels.

The DLP agent obtains an item from the queue and processes it to determine whether the task associated with this item violates any of the DLP policies received from the server. In one embodiment the DLP agent includes a document converter and a policy violation detector . The document converter is responsible for finding characteristics of a use restricted document in the document data of the item. In one embodiment in which the item s document data is an image e.g. captured by the scan head of the document handing device the document converter performs an image recognition analysis e.g. using embedded object tagging to find characteristics of a use restricted document such as logos watermarks stamps confidential sensitive stock etc. In addition or alternatively the document converter may include an optical image recognition OCR component that converts this image into machine readable text.

In one embodiment once the document converter completes its process the resulting characteristics of a use restricted document and or text of the document data are passed to the policy violation detector for detecting possible violations of DLP policies. In this embodiment the requested task is delayed until the policy violation detector completes its analysis. For example based on the user s security level the requested task can be queued until the DLP agent allows it to proceed or rejects it depending on the result provided by the policy violation detector .

In another embodiment once the document converter completes its process information about the item is recorded in the audit trail and the requested task is allowed to proceed in parallel with the analysis of the policy violation detector . The audit trail may be a file a collection of files a database or any other data store. The item information recorded in the audit trail may include an identifier of the document data an identifier of the requested task and an identifier of the user. The identifier of the document data may include an original image in a compressed form and or converted text and or any other information characterizing the document data. The identifier of the requested task may include an identifier of the underlying operation e.g. copy scan etc. and or other task data such as a requested number of copies a requested destination or recipient of the document data e.g. when faxing a document a customer for which the task is requested to be performed e.g. when copying or scanning a document etc. The identifier of the user may include the user ID and or the user s security level.

In yet another embodiment the requested task can be allowed to proceed anytime after the relevant item is sent to the queue and the audit trail recording can start when the relevant item is retrieved from the queue for processing after the conversion of the document data e.g. using OCR or upon completion of DLP analysis by the policy violation detector .

The order in which the document conversion DLP analysis and auditing are performed can be configurable e.g. by a system administrator or predetermined. The DLP system may provide a user interface to allow a system administrator to configure the sequence of the above operations.

The policy violation detector is responsible for applying relevant DLP policies to the item information. The item information may include detected use restricted sub elements and or text from the document data information identifying the requested task and information identifying the user. A DLP policy may require a content specific determination and or a task specific determination. A content specific determination may involve for example a search for keywords regular expression patterns or data from a protected source in the document data or a comparison of the document data with a collection of use restricted documents. The policy violation detector can perform a content specific determination involving a search for keywords regular expression patterns or data from a protected source using text similarity analysis. The policy violation detector can perform a content specific determination involving a comparison of the current document with a collection of use restricted documents using a signature similarity analysis. Alternatively the policy violation detector can use various other mechanisms known in the art to perform content specific determinations in accordance with the DLP policies .

As discussed above DLP policies can in addition or alternatively require a task specific determination. A task specific determination may involve examining characteristics of the task such as the underlying operation a requested number of copies a specified destination e.g. fax number parameters of the physical document to be produced e.g. paper type letterheads confidential stamps watermarks etc. an identifier of a recipient e.g. a fax recipient etc. For example the DLP policy may be violated if the document includes the confidential stamp and the number of requested copies is more than one.

Further the DLP policy may distinguish between user security levels. Then the policy violation detector may use the security level of the user that requested the task to determine whether the requested task violates the DLP policy .

In one embodiment the policy violation detector produces a policy violation indicator that signifies whether the requested task violates the DLP policy . The policy violation indicator can have only two values corresponding to yes and no. Alternatively the policy violation indicator can provide a rating illustrating how close the requested task is to violating the policy. The rating can be calculated based on the likelihood of meeting every condition of the policy by the requested task e.g. the document data can resemble a protected document by 70 percent as opposed to 100 percent .

In some embodiments in which the audit trail recording starts after the completion of the DLP analysis the DLP agent records in the audit trail an identifier of the document data an identifier of the requested task an identifier of the user and a policy violation indicator. In other embodiments in which the audit trail recording starts prior to the completion of the DLP analysis the DLP agent adds to the audit trail a policy violation indicator produced for the relevant item by the policy violation detector .

The information recorded in the audit trail is subsequently provided to the policy violation reporter which reports policy violations to appropriate entities as described in more detail above.

The server module includes a policy manager a policy violation detector and a policy violation reporter . The policy manager creates DLP policies e.g. using input provided via UI similarly to the policy manager of .

The policy violation detector is responsible for detecting violations of DLP policies by tasks requested to be performed with the document handling device. In particular the policy violation detector receives task information from the DLP system and determines whether the task violates any of the DLP policies . The policy violation detector then communicates the result back to the DLP system .

The policy violation reporter is responsible for creating reports based on the result provided by the policy violation detector and task information provided by the DLP system . The reports may be created for system administrators and or other employees of an organization e.g. for a supervisor of a user that caused a violation . In addition or alternatively the policy violation reporter may generate a violation notification and send it to appropriate individuals or systems e.g. via email text message pager alert etc. .

The DLP system includes a persistent queue a queue manager a DLP agent and an audit trail . The queue manager receives user requests for tasks to be performed on document data with the document handling device and sends the document data to the queue together with information identifying the requested task and the user that requested the task as was discussed in more detail below in conjunction with the queue manager of .

The DLP agent may include a document converter that obtains an item from the queue and processes it in a similar manner as the document converter discussed above.

In one embodiment once the document converter completes its process the resulting characteristics of a use restricted document and or text of the document data are sent to the server for processing by the policy violation detector . In this embodiment the requested task is delayed until the policy violation detector completes its analysis and returns the result back to the DLP agent . Depending on the result the DLP agent can allow the requested task to proceed or can reject the requested task.

In another embodiment once the document converter completes its process information about the item is recorded in the audit trail and the requested task is allowed to proceed in parallel with the analysis of the policy violation detector . The item information recorded in the audit trail may include an identifier of the document data an identifier of the requested task and an identifier of the user.

In yet another embodiment the requested task can be allowed to proceed anytime after the relevant item is sent to the queue and the audit trail recording can start when the relevant item is retrieved from the queue for processing after the conversion of the document data or after the policy violation detector completes its analysis.

As discussed above the order of the above operations can be configurable e.g. by a system administrator or predetermined.

Once the policy violation detector completes the DLP analysis it returns the result of the analysis to the DLP agent . In some embodiments in which the audit trail recording starts after the completion of the DLP analysis the DLP agent records in the audit trail an identifier of the document data an identifier of the requested task an identifier of the user and a policy violation indicator. In other embodiments in which the audit trail recording starts prior to the completion of the DLP analysis the DLP agent adds to the audit trail a policy violation indicator produced for the relevant item by the policy violation detector .

The information recorded in the audit trail can be subsequently provided to the policy violation reporter for reporting and or alert generations. In an alternative embodiment not shown the audit trail resides on the server and the recording is done based on information provided by the DLP system and the policy violation detector .

Referring to processing logic begins with receiving a user request to perform a task on document data with a document handling device block . The document data may be associated with a physical e.g. paper document that will be converted by the document handling device into a digital form e.g. when the document handling device is a copy scan or fax machine . Alternatively the document data may be associated with an electronic document that will be converted by the document handling device into a non digital form e.g. when the document handling device is a printer . In one embodiment upon receiving a user request to perform a task processing logic sends the task and the document data to a queue on the document handling device.

At block processing logic determines whether the requested task violates a DLP policy. In one embodiment this determination is made by examining the document data to find sub elements of a use restricted document e.g. logos watermarks stamps confidential sensitive etc. and then applying relevant DLP policies to the document data and or characteristics of the requested task to detect a violation of any of the DLP policies. In one embodiment in which the document data is stored in the queue in the form of an image processing logic converts the image into text using OCR and then uses the converted text when performing the DLP analysis.

At block processing logic records in an audit trail information identifying the requested task and document data as well as an indication of whether the requested task violates the DLP policy. Two exemplary embodiments of method will now be discussed in more detail with references to .

At block processing logic retrieves an item from the queue. In one embodiment if the document data of the item is an image processing logic converts the image into text using an OCR technique block . In addition or alternatively processing logic can optionally examine the document data to find use restricted sub elements e.g. logos watermarks confidential stamps etc. using an image recognition technique block .

At block processing logic passes item information to a policy violation detector. The item information may include detected use restricted sub elements and or text from the document data information identifying the requested task and information identifying the user. The policy violation detector applies relevant DLP policies to the item information. A DLP policy may require a content specific determination and or a task specific determination. A content specific determination may involve for example a search for keywords regular expression patterns or data from a protected source in the document data or a comparison of the document data with a collection of use restricted documents. A task specific determination may involve examining characteristics of the task such as the underlying operation a requested number of copies a specified destination e.g. fax number parameters of the physical document to be produced e.g. paper type letterheads confidential stamps watermarks etc. an identifier of a recipient e.g. a fax recipient etc. In addition if a DLP policy distinguishes between user security levels the policy violation detector can use the security level of the user for its analysis.

In one embodiment the policy violation detector produces a policy violation indicator that signifies whether the requested task violates any of the DLP policies. The policy violation indicator can have only two values corresponding to yes and no. Alternatively the policy violation indicator can provide a rating illustrating how close the requested task is to violating the policy. The rating can be calculated based on the likelihood of meeting every condition of the policy by the requested task.

At block processing logic determines whether the requested task violates at least one of the DLP policies based on the indicator provided by the policy violation detector. If the requested task does not violate any of the DLP policies processing logic allows the requested task to proceed block and records in an audit trail an identifier of the task an identifier of the document data an identifier of the user and a policy violation indicator block .

If the requested task violates at least one of the DLP policies processing logic interferes with the requested task block . For example processing logic can reject the task display a warning allow the task to proceed in a modified form e.g. printing the document with watermarks etc. At block processing logic records in the audit trail an identifier of the requested task an identifier of the document data an identifier of the user a policy violation indicator and an identifier of an action that interfered with the requested task.

As discussed in more detail above the method can be performed entirely by the document handling device. Alternatively the method can be performed by the document handling device in cooperation with an off host server. For example the server can perform block and return a policy violation indicator to the data handling device. In addition or alternatively the audit trail can be stored on the server and block can be performed by the server based on information provided by the document handling device.

At block processing logic retrieves an item from the queue. In one embodiment if the document data of the item is an image processing logic converts the image into text using an OCR technique block . In addition or alternatively processing logic can optionally examine the document data to find use restricted sub elements e.g. logos watermarks confidential stamps etc. using an image recognition technique block .

At block processing logic records item information in an audit trail. The item information may include information identifying the document data of the item information identifying the requested task and information identifying the user. The document data may include detected use restricted sub elements text from the document data and or original image data in compressed form.

Next in one embodiment processing logic allows the requested task to proceed block and passes the item information from the audit trail to the policy violation detector block . In another embodiment processing logic allows the requested task to proceed prior to block . In particular the requested task can be allowed to proceed anytime between block after the document data and the task characteristics are sent to the queue and the completion of block .

At block processing logic determines whether the requested task violates at least one of the DLP policies based on the indicator provided by the policy violation detector. If the requested task violates at least one of the DLP policies processing logic adds information on the detected violation to the audit trail block . If the requested task does not violate any of the DLP policies processing logic adds to the audit trail data indicating that the requested task does not violate any of the DLP policies.

Allowing the requested task to be performed prior to the completion of the DLP analysis minimizes delays in the users workflow and avoids giving attackers a direct indication e.g. the task not being performed of the theft detection.

As discussed in more detail above the method can be performed entirely by the document handling device. Alternatively the method can be performed by the document handling device in cooperation with an off host server. For example the audit trail can be stored on the server and blocks and can be performed by the server based on information provided by the document handling device. Alternatively the server can perform block and return a policy violation indicator to the data handling device. Yet alternatively if both the audit trail is stored on the server and the DLP analysis is performed by the server then block and blocks through will be performed by the server.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a machine accessible storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine accessible storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine accessible storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine accessible storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine accessible storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine accessible storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

