---

title: Interpretation and feature detection in a seismic volume using bump mapping and lighting
abstract: Example embodiments of the present disclosure include one or more of a method, computing device, computer-readable medium, and system for creating a heightmap based on at least a portion of seismic data, rendering the heightmap, and illuminating at least a portion of the rendered heightmap.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09625595&OS=09625595&RS=09625595
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09625595
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121231
---
This application claims the benefit of a U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 607 425 filed Mar. 6 2012 entitled Interpretation and Feature Detection in a Seismic Volume Using a Directional Light Tool and b U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 716 252 filed Oct. 19 2012 entitled Interpretation and Feature Detection in a Seismic Volume Using a Directional Light Tool the contents of a and b are hereby incorporated in their entirety.

Lighting tools may be present in certain software e.g. seismic interpretation software or any software that relates to the seismic to production process that involves visualizing surfaces . For example certain seismic interpretation software may include functionality to enable a user to control lighting effects with respect to an illuminated object. Lighting tools may be used to highlight topography in various ways and or allocate colors based on the orientation of the structures in order to facilitate the interpretation and understanding of deformations and or depositional processes.

An example embodiment of the present disclosure may include a method system and or software for creating a heightmap based on at least a portion of seismic data as an example a portion of the seismic data may be a first portion that is a lower resolution than a second portion of the seismic data rendering the heightmap and illuminating at least a portion of the rendered heightmap. Illuminating at least a portion of the rendered heightmap may include directing a colored light at the portion of the rendered heightmap. The colored light may include a plurality of colored lights wherein at least two of the colored lights are of different colors.

Creating the heightmap may include determining at least one of an occlusion and a parallax effect. In an example embodiment creating the heightmap may include creating a mesh over at least one of an intersection or surface represented by the seismic data and adjusting a position of at least one vertex according to a value in the computed heightmap. Creating the heightmap may include considering at least one of the direction of the light and a viewing perspective. An example method may also include filtering values in the heightmap that are not within a specified color interval.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an additional information component e.g. well logging data a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs geobodies etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation interpretation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data geobody classes may define objects for representing geobodies based on seismic data etc. As an example an interpretation process that includes generation of one or more seismic attributes may provide for definition of a geobody using one or more classes. Such a process may occur via interaction e.g. user interaction semi automatically or automatically e.g. via a feature extraction process based at least in part on one or more seismic attributes .

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results attributes etc. In an example embodiment output from the simulation component the attribute component or one or more other components may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component e.g. for triggering another process .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework. The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components e.g. or modules may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs geobodies etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to drill acquire information assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc. The geologic environment also shows various wells e.g. wellbores and . In the example of the downhole equipment may include a drill for drilling the well .

The framework may provide for modeling the geologic environment including the wells and as well as stratigraphic layers lithologies faults etc. The framework may create a model with one or more grids for example defined by nodes where a numerical technique can be applied to relevant equations discretized according to at least one of the one or more grids. As an example the framework may provide for performing a simulation of phenomena associated with the geologic environment using at least a portion of a grid. As to performing a simulation such a simulation may include interpolating geological rock types interpolating petrophysical properties simulating fluid flow or other calculating e.g. or a combination of any of the foregoing .

According to an example embodiment a system may enable interaction and certain other functionality including without limitation interaction with seismic data. shows an example embodiment of modules layer shown in that includes an example heightmap module and an example lighting module . The heightmap module and lighting module may be used to implement one or more embodiments described herein.

An example embodiment of the present disclosure includes a method of generating reflections based on a heightmap e.g. an artificial heightmap that is produced from at least a portion of visualized seismic data e.g. flat 2D sections or a naturally bumped section such as where you are using a re projected seismic section . The magnitude of the heightmap may be scaled with respect to the absolute amplitude value of a sample within a seismic data.

Example embodiments of a light control are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 431 001 the contents of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 431 001 describes an example light control user interface UI component that can be used to modify one or more characteristics of a light with respect to visualized geology and or geophysics G G data. Visualized G G data may include 2D or 3D scene including without limitation a seismic visualization scene. For example a light control may be used to rotate one or more lights and or modify a color of one or more lights. In addition the light control may be used to animate one or more lights in a seismic scene. In an example embodiment of a light control one or more user interface elements representing one or more lights may be located on an ellipse representing a plurality of azimuths thereby allowing a user to define a position and or direction of a light. This can enable a user to interactively manipulate azimuth and elevation of a light.

According to an example embodiment a bump mapping algorithm may take one or more of the following as inputs 

The heightmap and the surface can be used to compute a new normal. In some embodiments input may include a surface when a bump mapping algorithm is configured to have a heightmap follow another surface in other embodiments a surface might not be used . A bump mapping algorithm might be configured to have a heightmap follow another surface if the heightmap is not computed based upon visualized data. As an example the heightmap might not be computed from the original seismic data visualized plane e.g. the heightmap might be determined by investigating the amplitudes in the data and setting the height to be proportional to the amplitude . Rather the heightmap might be based on some other surface or data derived from the original seismic e.g. a seismic attribute intersection whose height map was computed . Accordingly the height map might not be computed from what is visualized. This could also apply to displacement mapping where displacements may be computed based on something other than what is visualized. An example embodiment may involve a blended heightmap using seismic volumes that can be artificially bumped on top of the same intersection. Light may then be applied to the blended heightmap.

A computed normal vector can be passed on to a lighting model including without limitation a lighting model that uses Phong and or Goraud shading other lighting models may also be used . The resulting illuminated heightmap may depend on the interaction between the heightmap and one or more lights in a scene. The foregoing may be used to render a bump mapped seismic surface that is illuminated by one or more lights.

With parallax mapping in addition to considering a heightmap and a surface an example bump mapping algorithm can use one or more of the following as inputs 

An example embodiment of displacement mapping could use one or more of the following as input a heightmap a surface one or more lights and or viewing direction.

In summary an example bump mapping algorithm according to the present disclosure can use one or more of parallax mapping and or displacement mapping and therefore can use one or more of the following as input a heightmap a surface one or more lights and or viewing direction.

An example embodiment of the present disclosure may be used to cause a plane to appear bumpy by applying bump mapping or parallax mapping to the plane e.g. apply bump mapping or parallax mapping to a plane using one or more of the following as inputs heightmap the surface one or more lights and or viewing direction . Furthermore an example embodiment of the present disclosure may be used to illuminate a surface that already appears bumpy. In certain cases where the surface already appears bumpy bump mapping might not be applied. However the light control can enable a user to illuminate a surface from various angles.

Some example bump mapping techniques might not take into account occlusion or parallax effects. However another example bump mapping algorithm may include steep parallax mapping. Added occlusion and parallax effects can improve a user s ability to see certain data displacements with respect to rendered seismic data e.g. when viewed at an angle . On certain graphical processing units GPUs parallax mapping can be at least as efficient as bump mapping.

Displacement mapping can include creating a finer mesh e.g. a triangular mesh over an intersection or surface and adjusting the position of one or more vertices according to values in a computed bump map. As an example small increments e.g. increments below the seismic resolution might be used to reduce distortion of the position of the data.

Illumination of a seismic section that has been rendered with a bump mapping algorithm can generate visualized seismic data that can allow a user to obtain a better understanding of seismic data without computing a seismic attribute. That is an example embodiment of the present disclosure might not involve a priori interpretation of seismic data and or seismic attribute computation.

An example embodiment may use a GPU shader that is configured to filter out one or more color values v e.g. all color values that are not within a predetermined color interval e.g. v e . Accordingly the identification of faults horizons and or structures represented by seismic data can be done using one or more GPU shaders. This enables a user to perform a seismic interpretation task without calculating a seismic attribute related to at least a portion of the seismic data. Since graphics hardware can accelerate such calculations and since there is no additional time penalty for uploading or downloading the data an embodiment of the present disclosure can enable a user to quickly identify horizons surfaces and or other structures based on visualized seismic data. Another example embodiment might set the GPU rendering mode to connect each point with a line. This can enable a viewer to identify one or more lines of faults horizons and or other structures without programmatically determining a seismic attribute.

An example embodiment of an algorithm for connecting each point with a line may include looking for illuminated values within a predetermined interval e.g. illuminated values in the same interval . For example given a color value v for one or more visualized pixels e.g. each visualized pixels the GPU may draw a line to the nearest point whose color is within the interval v e v e where e is some limiting factor. This can be useful in several ways. One way to look at a color is the hue saturation value format v H S V . In this case an example algorithm can set e to match colors with similar hue values. An example algorithm may then display lines between the parts of the illuminated seismic which have the same color value thereby highlighting the actual structure of the subsurface using only GPU computations. Another way to look at the color would be in the standard RGB format v R G B .

An example embodiment of the present disclosure may use a light e.g. a directional light to highlight one or more features originating from a heightmap that has been generated from seismic data e.g. a 2D section including without limitation inline cross line time slice random line poly line strata slices . As an example the seismic data may be generated from restored or flattened volumes . As an example the artificial heightmap may be proportional to the amplitudes of the samples for a given slice.

A lighting tool may be used to view seismic data e.g. raw seismic intersection data in a manner that enhances a viewer s understanding of one or more geological contexts and or patterns. For example a user can manipulate a light having a defined orientation color magnitude and or intensity to respond to a given point on visualized seismic data e.g. a seismic intersection . Combinations of one or more parameters using one or more lights can enhance a viewer s understanding of visualized seismic data e.g. a seismic section .

Seismic interpretation of G G data e.g. interpretation of a conformable surface erosive interpretation salt interpretation etc. can be illuminated with directional lights. According to an example embodiment each directional light may use a different color for each direction. Applying this visual aid a map may be generated that provides an understanding of the orientation of one or more structures e.g. a fault network . This might involve prior interpretation and an already existing understanding of the continuity of an isochronous event. That is the light effect might be added a posteriori in order to enhance a viewer s perspective of the topography. For example a first colored light may be directed over a bump mapped amplitude contrast time slice using a different orientation. Light orientation can focus the viewer s perspective and can enhance continuity for certain features. One or more directional light can be used to assist a user to focus and enhance different delineation orientations and focus the interpretation towards a feature e.g. a tectonic event .

According to another example embodiment a user can use a plurality of colored lights in order to discretize a visual space. For example by using a plurality of lights of different colors a user may be able to visually differentiate a plurality of structures based on their shape intensity and orientation e.g. by pointing to the adequate azimuth and elevation . Furthermore vertical fractures may be shown in a first color whereas other oriented faults may be illuminated using a different colored light. This can give provide a user with an idea of orientation as well as the magnitude of deformations and or fractures.

An example embodiment of the workflow described above can help a user obtain an understanding of different geologic sequences. For example a seismic visualization may include an upper and lower portion. The lower portion might show heavy structures and or faults that are clearly visible and the dip of one or more seismic events can provide an improved understanding of a deformation process. Accordingly using an embodiment of the present invention to interpret the fault structures in that environment can simplify seismic interpretation workflows.

Bump mapping can also be used to improve seismic imaging at lower resolutions. Seismic data sets can be large and an example application that deals with large scale seismic data might use a level of detail LOD multi resolution scheme to cope with the data set size. This might be done for example if the capacity of a computer s random access memory RAM is not sufficient to hold all of a given set of seismic data.

Although LOD schemes can provide scalability when seismic data is visualized for a certain distance an LOD scheme might be clearly visible to a user e.g. due to a difference in resolution between one or more portions of the visualized seismic data . An example of this is shown in which shows an example seismic intersection that includes a first portion and a second portion separated by a dashed line . The second portion is rendered at a lower resolution as compared to the first portion thereby producing an image that is visibly fragmented. This might happen because a seismic rendering engine as part of an LOD scheme might use a different level of detail in the first portion versus the second portion . An example embodiment of the present disclosure can decrease the visual difference between the first and second portions and by increasing the bump mapping in the lower resolution portion i.e. the second portion . This can produce an image with less noticeable visual difference between portions that differ in resolution.

Selectively alternating the bump mapping which is applied to one or more tiles in a section can enhance the appearance of such tiles at lower resolutions. Combining this technique with multiple light colors a user can obtain a better seismic image at lower resolutions than what may be possible without bump mapping.

An example rendering algorithm for an LOD scheme may be implemented according to the following pseudo code 

The above example algorithm can produce a lower resolution image which appears to have a higher resolution and may reduce visual fragmentation of visualized seismic data. This technique can also be extended to use parallax and or displacement mapping to obtain additional detail. If using a displacement map the technique may be adapted to keep a generated mesh for the intersection in a cache and use that mesh for generating the displacements when displaying a tile with a lower LOD. Since the mesh of a LOD level is smaller in size than the actual data for that LOD level this can produce an enhanced image.

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

