---

title: Detecting content on a social network using browsing patterns
abstract: In one implementation, a computer-implemented method includes receiving information related to users of a social network site and determining a graph for at least a portion of the social network, the graph including a plurality of nodes connected by directional links where each node corresponds to a user having a profile page on the social network and where each directional link corresponds to a user viewing at least an aspect of a profile page for another user. The method can further include identifying first nodes as including content associated with a particular subject of interest, and seeding the identified first nodes with first scores. The method can also include determining second scores for second nodes by propagating the first scores across the social graph based upon third nodes having viewed aspects of profile pages associated with the first nodes and the second nodes; and providing the determined second scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338047&OS=09338047&RS=09338047
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09338047
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121005
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 571 822 filed on Oct. 1 2009 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to detecting content contained on a social network of users. A social network can be an online system that provides a forum for users who are geographically separated to interact with one another. Social networks can be aimed at various aspects of social interaction such as friendship and business networking.

In general a user of a social network has a profile page that is customizable by the user. A user can post content such as text images and video to its profile page. Detection of content posted to profile pages on a social network e.g. to root out inappropriate content has included manual review of profile pages.

This document describes techniques methods and systems for detecting content contained on a social network of users. In general content pertaining to a particular subject of interest can be detected on a social network based upon user browsing patterns. More specifically users that have viewed content already identified as pertaining to a particular subject at one location on the social network e.g. a user s profile page may be likely to view similar content at other locations on the social network e.g. other users profile pages . User browsing patterns can point from content that has already been identified as pertaining to the particular subject of interest to undetected content that pertains to the particular subject of interest. Based upon browsing patterns a likelihood that other profile pages on a social network contain content pertaining to a particular subject of interest can be determined.

For example assume that a profile page for user U has already been identified as containing images and videos regarding sports and that detection of other profile pages containing content regarding sports is desired. Assume further that users U U have viewed both the profile page for user U and a profile page for user U. The profile page for user U can be detected as likely containing content related to sports based upon the users U U viewing both the profile page for user U and the profile page for user U the browsing patterns of the users U U can provide a connection between the two profile pages.

In one implementation a computer implemented method includes receiving at a first server system information related to users of a social network site hosted on a second server system and determining by the first server system a graph for at least a portion of the social network from the received information the graph including a plurality of nodes connected by directional links where each node corresponds to a user having a profile page on the social network and where each directional link corresponds to a user of the social network represented by a node viewing at least an aspect of a profile page for another user represented by another node. The method can further include identifying first nodes from the plurality of nodes as including content associated with a particular subject of interest and seeding the identified first nodes with first scores that indicate profile pages corresponding to the identified first nodes are positively identified as including content associated with the particular subject of interest. The method can also include determining second scores for second nodes of the plurality of nodes that indicate a likelihood that the second nodes contain content that is associated with the particular subject of interest by propagating the first scores across the social graph to the second nodes wherein the first scores are propagated across the social graph and the second scores are determined based upon third nodes of the plurality of nodes that have directional links that indicate that users corresponding to the third nodes viewed aspects of profile pages associated with the first nodes and the second nodes and providing by the first server the determined second scores for the second nodes.

In another implementation a system for detecting profile pages on a social network as including content associated with a particular subject of interest includes one or more servers and an interface for the one or more servers that receives information related to users of a social network site hosted a server system. The system can additionally include a social graph linking module configured to determine a graph for at least a portion of the social network from the information received by the interface the graph including a plurality of nodes connected by directional links where each node corresponds to a user having a profile page on the social network and where each directional link corresponds to a user of the social network represented by a node viewing at least an aspect of a profile page for another user represented by another node. The system can also include a score seeding component that identifies first nodes from the plurality of nodes as including content associated with a particular subject of interest and seeds the identified first nodes with first scores that indicate first profile pages corresponding to the identified first nodes are positively identified as including content associated with the particular subject of interest. The system can additionally include an iterative score propagation module that is configured to determine second scores for second nodes of the plurality of nodes that indicate a likelihood that the second nodes contain content that is associated with the particular subject of interest by propagating the first scores across the social graph to the second nodes wherein the first scores are propagated across the social graph and the second scores are determined based upon third nodes of the plurality of nodes that have directional links that indicate that users corresponding to the third nodes viewed aspects of profile pages associated with the first nodes and the second nodes. The system can also include a content detection module that is configured to provide the determined second scores for the second nodes.

In another implementation a system for detecting profile pages on a social network as including content associated with a particular subject of interest includes one or more servers and an interface for the one or more servers that receives information related to users of a social network site hosted a server system. The system can also include a social graph linking module configured to determine a graph for at least a portion of the social network from the information received by the interface the graph including a plurality of nodes connected by directional links where each node corresponds to a user having a profile page on the social network and where each directional link corresponds to a user of the social network represented by a node viewing at least an aspect of a profile page for another user represented by another node. The system can further include a score seeding component that identifies first nodes from the plurality of nodes as including content associated with a particular subject of interest and seeds the identified first nodes with first scores that indicate first profile pages corresponding to the identified first nodes are positively identified as including content associated with the particular subject of interest. The system can also include means for detecting profile pages on a social network as including content associated with a particular subject of interest that is configured to determine second scores for second nodes of the plurality of nodes that indicate a likelihood that the second nodes contain content that is associated with the particular subject of interest by propagating the first scores across the social graph to the second nodes wherein the first scores are propagated across the social graph and the second scores are determined based upon third nodes of the plurality of nodes that have directional links that indicate that users corresponding to the third nodes viewed aspects of profile pages associated with the first nodes and the second nodes. The system can additionally include a content detection module that is configured to provide the determined second scores for the second nodes.

Particular embodiments can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Content can be detected on a social network with greater efficiency. Instead of relying upon manual review of the pages of a social network pages that likely contain content can be quickly located based upon browsing patterns. A greater amount of content can be located on a social network in less time than under traditional manual review. Additionally detection of content on the social network permits for a high degree of accuracy by distinguishing between browsing patterns that are indicative of the presence of content associated with a particular subject on a profile page and browsing patterns that are not. Furthermore detecting content based on user browsing patterns on a social network can have greater accuracy and efficiency than other automated techniques such as content based detection techniques.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes techniques methods and systems for detecting content contained on a social network of users. Social networks e.g. FACEBOOK MYSPACE ORKUT TWITTER LINKEDIN YOUTUBE etc. provide an electronic environment within which users can interact with one another. Users of a social network generally have at least one corresponding profile page. A user of a social network can customize his her profile page on the social network. User customization of a profile page can include posting images text videos graphics games interactive applications etc. Depending on the social network user profile pages and the customized content contained therein can be viewed by other users and or the general public. Generally users are able to add content to their profile pages for other users to see without the content having to first be accurately classified e.g. tagged as pertaining to a particular subject and or approved by the social network. While this is desirable for users of a social network it can be problematic for social networks.

For example a social network may desire to provide advertising that is related to the content on a user s profile page. However without a designation e.g. content tag content classification etc. associated with customized content added by users the social network may not be able to accurately provide such content related advertising. In another example users of a social network may post content that is illegal e.g. content violating copyright law content violating penal statutes etc. inappropriate for minors e.g. pornography R or NC 17 rated videos adult content etc. in contravention of an end user licensing agreement EULA etc. Attempts by a social network to remove and or filter content that is illegal age inappropriate in violation of EULA etc. can be stifled by a lack of accurate classifications for user added content.

Social networks can attempt to detect the potentially problematic content through content analysis. However detecting content pertaining to a particular subject of interest e.g. advertisement related content illegal content content that is inappropriate for minors content in violation of EULA etc. on a social network by analyzing the content itself can be a difficult task given the large amount of ever changing user posted content that is contained on a social network. Additionally detecting content through content analysis can be complicated by the large amount of image based content e.g. photos graphics videos games etc. on a social network for which detection is less accurate and more processor intensive.

This document discloses various improved techniques methods and systems for detecting content pertaining to a particular subject of interest based upon user browsing patterns. The various disclosed techniques methods and systems can utilize user browsing patterns as pointers to profile pages that likely contain content of interest. Browsing patterns for users of a social network can include the pages of a social network that a user views such as profile pages of other users community pages forums etc. Users of a social network may be likely to seek out and browse to similar content across the social network. A user viewing a page with content known to pertain to a particular subject of interest can indicate that the additional pages that the user views also contain pertaining to the particular subject of interest. User browsing patterns can be used to propagate classifications e.g. illegal content inappropriate content for minors content related to sports etc. for content that has already been identified as pertaining to a particular subject of interest to other content for which a classification is unknown.

For example assume that a profile page for user U contains content classified as pertaining to music e.g. user U s profile page contains pictures of musicians and that it is unknown whether a profile page for user U contains content related to music. If users U U viewed user U s profile page and user U s profile page then the browsing patterns of users U U viewed profile pages for users U and U can indicate that user U s profile page likely contains content related to music a classification associated with user U s profile page can be propagated to user U s profile page. The browsing patterns of users U U and the classification of user U s profile page can be analyzed to determine a likelihood that the profile page for user U contains content relating to music.

The social network servers can host any variety of social networks. For example the social network servers can host a friendship oriented social network e.g. FACEBOOK MYSPACE ORKUT etc. a business oriented social network e.g. LINKEDIN etc. a blog oriented social network e.g. TWITTER etc. etc. The social network servers store an array of information regarding content posted to and activity on the social network including user browsing patterns. A browsing pattern for a user can include pages of the social network e.g. profile pages group pages forums etc. and other content on the social network e.g. text image video game etc. that the user has viewed. For example a user s browsing pattern can be a log of social network pages that the user requested from the social network servers . The social network servers can capture user browsing patterns by pairing requests for pages and other content on the social network with information that identifies the user requesting the information e.g. user login information information stored in a session cookie that identifies a user etc. .

User browsing patterns stored by the social network servers can be assembled into a graph of social network browsing patterns . In the example graph that is depicted the nodes labeled U U represent users of the social network. The nodes for users U U are connected by directional links e.g. arrows . In this example the directional links indicate that a user of the social network has viewed a profile page or other content associated with another user of the social network. For instance the directional link that points from user U to user U indicates that the user U has viewed e.g. requested from the social network servers a profile page or other content associated with the user U.

The social network servers provide social network browsing patterns for users of the social network to the content detection server . As described above the content detections server uses the browsing patterns to detect content on the social network of users.

Additionally the content detection server receives information regarding profiles that have been positively identified as containing content associated with a particular subject of interest from an identified profile repository . The content detection server uses the received information in conjunction with the browsing patterns to detect content on the social network. The received information can be specific to a particular subject of interest whereas the browsing patterns can be generic . For instance if the content detection server is attempting to identify profile pages that likely contain content associated with downhill skiing the identified profile repository can provide pages of the social network already identified as containing content related to downhill skiing. The identified profile repository can include information regarding associations between users of the social network and one or more of a variety of subjects of interest such as music sports adult content content in contravention of a EULA etc. In the depicted example the information indicates that the profile page associated with the user U has been identified having content associated with the particular subject of interest.

The identified profile repository can be populated with identified profiles in a variety of ways. For example profiles can be identified and added to the repository based upon manual review of profile pages e.g. profile manually reviewed by social network administrator in response to being flagged by other users based upon a user adding content that is known verified to pertain to a particular subject e.g. user selects share on social network link button on a news website regarding a news article verified by the news website as pertaining to a particular subject based upon the profile having previously been identified by the content detection server etc.

For instance assume user U for the social network visits a website www.classicalmusic.org and selects a link button to share a promotional video for an upcoming concert on the social network. The www.classicalmusic.org website can provide verification that the promotional video that is being shared on user U s profile page does in fact pertain to classical music. For instance meta data e.g. tags associated with the promotional video can be analyzed to verify content associated with the video. In another example labels can be provided by the classicalmusic.org website that can be used to verify content when seeding nodes of a social graph as described below in further detail . Based upon such verification the user U can be positively identified as having content associated with classical music and can be added to the identified profile repository with such an association.

To detect content on the social network the content detection server can construct a graph similar to the graph using the received social network browsing patterns . The constructed graph can be used to identify relationships that may exist between users of the social network as indicated by browsing patterns. For example referring to the graph the users U and U may have similar content on their profile pages based upon the users U and U having viewed both of their profile pages.

Using the received information that identifies user U has having a profile page that contains content associated with a subject of interest the content detection server can seed the node associated with the user U with a score . The score can indicate that the profile page of the user U contains content associated with the subject of interest. As depicted in social graph the node for user U is seeded with a score as represented by the shading of U .

The content detection server can propagate the seeded score to other users of the social network using the browsing patterns as depicted in the graph . Scores can be propagated to other users of the social network in a variety of ways as described in more detail below. Generally a propagated score for a user that shares a larger number of common page views with an identified user will likely be greater than a propagated score for a user sharing a smaller number of common page views. For instance a score propagated from user U to user U will likely be greater than a score propagated from user U to U based upon there being more common views of pages for U and U by users U and U than common views of pages for U and U by U only .

As depicted in the example graph the nodes for users U and U are shaded in addition to the node for user U. The shading for users U and U indicates that a high score in relation to the other nodes in the graph was propagated from the node U. The high score was propagated to user U based upon users U and U viewing the profile pages for users U and U. The high score was propagated to user U based upon user U viewing the profile pages for users U and U.

Content can be detected using viewing scores and content owner scores for each of the nodes of the graph . A viewing score can be a score for a node based upon the scores of other nodes that were viewed by the node as indicated by the directional links . An owner score can be a score for a node base upon the scores of other nodes that viewed the node. Content can be detected based upon the owner scores for nodes. A node can have both an owner score for content viewed by other users from the associated user and a viewer score for content viewed by the user from other users .

For example the node for user U can be seeded with an owner score. The owner score for U can then be propagated to nodes for U and U as viewer scores. The viewer scores for U and U can then be propagated to nodes for U and U as owner scores. Content pertaining to the particular subject of interest can be detected based upon the owner scores propagated to nodes U and U.

Based upon the propagated scores the profiles for users U and U can be identified as likely containing content associated with the particular subject . The content detection server can determine whether a propagated score indicates a likelihood of a profile page containing content associated with the particular subject of interest using a variety of techniques such as a propagated score threshold e.g. scores greater than the threshold indicate the associated profile page is likely to contain the content of interest selecting the nodes with the top N scores e.g. top 2 nodes top 1 of nodes etc. etc.

The content detection server provides the identified profiles U and U as output . The identified profiles U and U can be provided to a client that requested content detection on the social network. For example the social network servers can request content be detected by the content detection server for a variety of reasons e.g. identify content in contravention of the EULA etc. and can be provided with information identifying users U and U. Depending on the circumstances surrounding the request from the social network servers a variety of actions can be taken with regard to users U and U e.g. target for advertising lock or restrict access to profile pages etc. .

In another example an advertiser s request to target ads at users having content related to a particular topic can be routed to the content detection server . Such a request may come a variety of sources such as directly from the advertiser not depicted through another server not depicted that provides opportunities to advertise to users of the social network etc. The information regarding the identified users U and U can be used to target those users with advertising on behalf of the advertiser.

As described above profile pages for users of a social network can vary greatly depending on the social network e.g. friendship network business networking etc. and the type of content users are permitted to post. The profile pages are presented as simplified examples of profile pages. Each of the profile pages corresponds to one of the users U U. As demonstrated by the varied fields of the profile pages e.g. page presents videos and page presents photos the type of content presented on a profile page can vary depending on user configuration of the profile page.

Similar to the graphs presented above with regard to the graph provides directions links between the nodes that indicate one user viewed a profile page or content associated with another user. For example an arrow from user U to user U indicates that the user U viewed the profile page or content contained in the profile page e.g. photos .

Extending the example from regarding user U being identified as having content a profile page with content associated with a particular subject of interest the photos are indicated as being known content meaning the photos are known to positively pertain to the particular subject. However the question marks provided in content for profile pages and indicates that a subject associated with the content is unknown e.g. no tag associated with the content or unverified e.g. the validity of a tag associated with the content has not been confirmed by a reputable source . For instance a subject associated with the videos posted on the user U s profile page are unknown a subject associated with the blog which may contain a variety of content such as text hyperlinks to other content photos videos games etc. posted on the user U s profile page is unknown and a subject associated with the photos posted on the user U s profile page is unknown.

A content detection server such as the content detection server described above can resolve at least some of the uncertainty associated with the subject associated with the content by performing the content detection techniques described above and below with regard to the graph . For example as demonstrated above with regard to the browsing patterns can indicate that the profile page for user U is likely to contain content e.g. the blog associated with the particular subject of interest.

To detect content on a social network the content detection system interacts with a social network server system over a network e.g. a LAN a WAN the Internet an intranet a wireless connection a communicative coupling etc. . Similar to the social network servers described above with regard to the social network server system can host the social network for which the content detection server system is attempting to detect content.

The content detection server system receives a request to locate content on the social network hosted by the social network server system at an input output I O interface . The request can specify a particular subject of interest to be located on the social network. The I O interface can be any variety of interface capable of communicating with other computing devices over the network such as a wireless network card an Ethernet card a telephone modem etc. The content detection server system can receive the request from a variety of sources such as the social network server system a client computer etc. The client computer e.g. laptop desktop computer cell phone PDA etc. can be various entities such as an advertiser an advertising server system a backend computing system for the social network server system an owner of intellectual property e.g. copyright holder a government agency e.g. law enforcement attempting to locate illegal activity etc. etc.

To process the request the content detection server system obtains user browsing patterns from the social network server system . Among a variety of other data regarding the social network hosted by the social network server system the browsing patterns can be stored in a social network data repository e.g. database file system etc. . A browsing pattern management module that is part of the social network server system can retrieve the browsing patterns from the social network data repository and provide them to the content detection server system through the network using an I O interface . The I O interface can be similar to the I O interface .

The content detection server system can additionally receive information regarding profile pages or other pages of the social network that are positively identified as pertaining to the subject of the request. Such information can be retrieved from a repository of identified profiles e.g. database file system etc. over the network . In some implementations the repository of identified profiles is part of or connected to the social network server system . In some implementations the repository of identified profiles is part of or connected to the content detection server system . In other implementations the repository of identified profiles is accessible over the network as part of a freestanding system e.g. a database server system a file server system etc. .

Using a social network graph linking module the content detection server system constructs a graph from the received user browsing patterns. The graph can include nodes that correspond to users of the social network and directional links that connect the nodes similar to the graphs described above with regard to . A score seeding component can seed nodes that have been positively identified as pertaining with requested subject as indicated by the information received from the repository of identified profiles with a score that indicates such an identification e.g. step described above with regard to .

An iterative score propagation module can propagate the seeded scores to other nodes of the created social graph based upon the received user browsing patterns e.g. step described above with regard to . A variety of propagation techniques can be used by the iterative score propagation module . In one example technique the iterative score propagation module can propagate 10 of the seeded score to another node for each common viewer e.g. a user that viewed content on both the seeded node s profile page and the other node s profile page the seeded node and the other node have in common up to a maximum of the seeded score . For instance if a seeded node has a score of 100 and it shares two common viewers with a first node then a score of 20 20 of 100 can be propagated to the first node. The score can be propagated throughout the social network through any number of iterations e.g. one iteration two iterations four iterations five iterations eight iterations etc. . For instance if two iterations are used then the score of 20 propagated to the first node can be propagated to other nodes e.g. a second node that share common viewers with the first node.

A score dampening component can be used to adjust scores for nodes based upon the proximity of nodes to which a score was propagated to seeded nodes. Nodes that are further away from a seeding node in the social network browsing pattern graph can have their scores dampened decreased by a greater amount than nodes that are closer to the seeding node. For instance a first node that did not receive a score until the third iteration of score propagation can have its score dampened by a greater amount than a second node that received a score in the first iteration. Nodes that are further away from a seeding node can be less likely to have content related to the subject of interest e.g. subject received with the request than nodes that are closer to the seeding node.

One example technique that can be used by the score dampening component includes multiplying the propagated score by a dampening value e.g. a number between 0.0 and 1.0 inclusive that is inversely related to the number of iterations also referred to as node depth at which a score was propagated to a node. For example a first node that has a depth of one score propagated to the first node in the first iteration can be dampened using a greater dampening value than a second node that has a depth of three score propagated to the second node in the third iteration meaning the score for the first node will be dampened decreased less than the score for the second node.

The dampening value can be computed in a variety of manners. For example the dampening value can be a dampening factor to the power of the depth for a node dampening value dampening factor A node depth . As described above the depth for a node is the iteration at which a score e.g. a viewing score an owner score is first propagated to the node. The dampening factor can be a value that is less than 1.0 e.g. 0.95 0.9 0.8 0.75 0.6 0.5 etc. . The dampening factor can vary for a social network depending on a variety of factors such as the type of social network the type links between users in the social graph e.g. explicit acquaintance relationships implicit acquaintance relationships etc. a likelihood that users of the social network that are not directly connected with by a link indicate something about each other e.g. a likelihood of content pertaining to the particular subject of interest being present on a distant user s profile page etc.

A score boosting component can be used to boost increase scores for nodes viewed by users strongly associated with the subject of interest e.g. users that viewed content from profile pages associated with the seeded nodes but for which the score may have been diluted by a large proportion of na ve users e.g. viewers with little or no association with the subject of interest . Views by a few strongly associated users can be more indicative of content contained on a profile page than views by a larger number of users that are na ve to the subject of interest. By boosting the score for such nodes such a diluting effect can be counteracted to more accurately reflect the likelihood that such a node contains content associated with the particular subject of interest.

For instance assume that a score propagated to a first node is determined by averaging the scores contributed by each node that viewed first node. Further assume that the first node was viewed by users U U that are strongly associated with the subject of interest e.g. each of the users U U had page views in common with nodes positively identified as being related to the subject of interest but was also viewed by users U U that have no association with the subject of interest e.g. users U U did not view any pages identified as containing content related to the subject of interest . In such an instance the views by users U U may be diluted by the lack of views for users U U in the propagated score for the first user. By boosting the score for the first user based upon the views of users U U the propagated score for the first user can more accurately reflect the likelihood the profile page for the first user contains content associated with the particular subject of interest.

One example boosting technique employs a function that uses a logarithmic relationship between the number of directional links to a node e.g. views by other users and the amount by which a score is boosted. By using a function with a logarithmic relationship the function is able to account for large variations e.g. variations by a factor of 10 100 1000 etc. in the number of directional links that may be present for users.

The example function can be score node score node log number of views log denominator multiplier 1 1 . The score node can be the score for a node during after propagation and or dampening of scores for the node. The number of views can be a number of nodes that are indicated as having viewed a node. The denominator can be a value that represents an enormous number of directional links views for a user on a social network e.g. 1 000 10 000 100 000 1 000 000 etc. . The denominator can vary from each social network base upon a variety of factors such as a number of users a number of links between users the greatest number of links for a single users the ease with which links can be established between users etc.

The multiplier can be a fixed number e.g. 0.1 0.25 0.67 1.10 1.25 1.4 1.9 2.5 etc. or a determined value. For instance the multiplier can be a value determined by the following function multiplier node numerator score node 1. The numerator can be a value such that nodes with relatively small scores will receive a greater multiplier than nodes that have relatively large scores. For example if scores range from 0 to 10 000 for nodes then the numerator may be a value such as 100 500 1 000 2 000 2 500 5 000 10 000 20 000 etc. In some implementations the multiplier can be the minimum value of a fixed number multiplier and a determined value multiplier for each node. For example using a fixed number multiplier of 0.25 then multiplier node numerator score node 1 is used when the computed multiplier less than 0.25 otherwise the fixed number multiplier is used e.g. when the computed multiplier is greater than or equal to 0.25 .

A content detection module examines propagated scores that may have been dampened and or boosted for nodes of the graph to determine a likelihood that a profile page associated with each of the nodes contains content associated with the particular subject e.g. step described above with regard to . The content detection module can identify pages of the social network that are likely to contain content associated with the particular subject of interest based upon a variety of factors such as a comparison between a score for the page and a threshold score a comparison between a score for the page and scores for other nodes etc.

The content detection module can provide information regarding the identified profile pages to the social network server to the client or any other device may have requested that the content detection server system detect content on the social network. The social network server system can receive and process the identification information with a identified profile processing module . Depending on the particular subject of interested requested e.g. content related to advertising adult content content in violation of a EULA etc. the identified profile processing module can perform various operations such as targeting a user for advertising on the social network restriction and or deletion of a user s account on the social network etc.

In some implementations the social network server system and the content detection server system are part of the same system. In such implementations the social network graph can be updated by the social network graph linking module with current information e.g. real time data regarding users and directional links as they change on the social network. Using the social network graph updated with current information the system can detect content on the social network in real time by updating the scores for nodes on the social graph as it changes. The system can continuously detect content on the social network with a real time social network graph and updated node scores using the score seeding component the iterative score propagation module the score dampening component the score boosting component and the profile content detection module .

In one example of such implementations the social graph of browsing patterns can be held in memory by the system. When an event e.g. page view content view etc. occurs that is related to browsing patterns e.g. node to be added directional links to be added etc. the event can be added to a queue of browsing events. During idle time the server system can grab events from the queue to update the social graph of browsing patterns e.g. add nodes add directional links etc. . For each update to the graph scores viewer and owner scores can be propagated local to the area of the social graph where the update was performed. Such an example implementation can permit faster detection of content on the social network by integrating real time data into the social graph.

Referring to the technique regards identifying pages of a social network that are likely to contain content associated with a particular subject of interest. The technique begins at step by receiving information related to users of a social network. The received information can include a variety of information such as user browsing patterns profile pages positively identified as having content associated with a particular subject of interest etc. As described above user browsing patterns can be based upon a variety of user actions with regard to a social network such as views of pages on the social network e.g. profile page views forum page views group page views etc. views of specific content located on the social network e.g. photos videos etc. interaction with other users of the social network e.g. posting comments to forums playing online games with other users etc. etc.

A social network graph that includes nodes and directional links can be determined from the received information . The social network graph can be determined from the received information. For example if a social network has users U and U the graph can include nodes that correspond to users U and U. If user U views U s profile page or other content on the social network associated with user U e.g. photo video forum post etc. then a directional link connecting users U and U can be created. Such a directional link can indicate that user U viewed U s profile page similar to the directional links depicted in the social graph described above with reference to .

The directional links may be weighted according to a variety of factors such as number of views e.g. user U viewed U s page five times frequency of views e.g. user U viewed U s profile page an average of two times per week an amount of content viewed that is related to the particular subject of interest e.g. 30 of the content that user U viewed from U s profile page related to the particular subject of interest etc. Weights can be assigned to directional links when creating the social graph for example by the social network graph linking module described above with regard to .

Weighted directional links can be used to further indicate which pages of the social graph are likely to contain content associated with the particular subject of interest. For example if the profile page for user U is identified as being associated with adult content an example particular subject of interest a directional link between users U and U that has a greater weight than a directional link between users U and U can provide an indication that user U and the other pages viewed by user U is more likely associated with adult content than user U.

First nodes can be identified from the plurality of nodes contained in the social network graph as including content associated with a particular subject of interest . The first nodes can be identified in a variety of ways as described above with reference to and the described repository of identified profiles . The identified first nodes can be seeded with a first score . The first score can be a score that is indicative of positive identification. For instance if scores for nodes range from 0.0 to 1.0 and a score of 0.0 represents a 0 likelihood an associated profile page contains content pertaining to the particular subject of interest and a score of 1.0 may represent a 100 likelihood then the first nodes can be seeded with a score of 1.0. A variety of score ranges can be used such as 0 100 100 100 0 10 000 etc.

Referring to as an illustrative example the social network graph can be determined step based upon received social network browsing patterns step for the users U U. The node for user U can be identified based upon information received from the identified profile repository step seeded with a score step indicative of positively identified content.

In some implementations nodes that are associated with pages that are likely to contain content associated with the particular subject of interest but which have not yet been positively identified can be included in the group of first nodes. For example nodes that are associated with profile pages that have been computed to have a high likelihood e.g. greater than 75 chance of containing content associated with the particular subject of interest etc. can be included in the group of first nodes. The likelihood a profile page contains content associated with the particular subject of interest can be determined from the described techniques. Such nodes can be seeded with the first score the same score as positively identified nodes or a score that is less than the first score e.g. a score that corresponds to a likelihood that the node contains content associated with the particular subject of interest .

Second scores for second nodes in the determined graph can be determined based upon the scores of the first nodes and directional links connecting the second nodes to the first nodes step . The second scores for the second nodes can indicate a likelihood that the second nodes contain content associated with the particular subject of interest. Referring to again a likelihood that profile pages associated with the nodes U and U U the second nodes can be determined based upon the links of the graph that connect to the node U the first node .

A variety of techniques can be used to propagate scores from a first node to the second nodes. In one example technique scores are propagated through directional links from an owner of content e.g. profile page containing content that is being viewed to a viewer of content. Referring to the social graph from as an illustrative example the directional link from user U to user U indicates that user U is a viewer of content e.g. profile page photo video etc. owned by user U e.g. owner of content . For instance if the user U has been identified as positively containing content associated with a particular subject of interest and is seeded with a score e.g. U identified as a first node and seeded with a first score then the score can be propagated from U to user U.

The extent to which scores are be propagated from an owner to a viewer can vary depending on among other things characteristics of users on specific the social network being examined. For instance in social networks where viewers and owners of content tend to be distinct groups of users within the social network e.g. viewers tend to view content associated with the particular subject of interest without posting similar content to their profile pages separate viewer and owner scores can be employed. For example a node can have both a viewer score and an owner score. The viewer score for a node being scored can be based upon the owner scores of nodes connected to the node being scored by directional links. The owner score for a node being scored can be based upon the viewer scores of nodes connected to the node being scored by directional links.

Referring to the social graph described with regard to the node for user U can be seeded with an owner score. Based upon the directional links that indicate users U and U are viewers of the node U the owner score from U can be propagated to U and U as a viewer score. As indicated by the other directional links associated with U and U the nodes U and U are additional owners of content viewed by U and U. The viewer scores for U and U can be propagated to nodes U and U as an owner score.

Any number of iterations of propagating scores from owners to viewers to owners can be used e.g. 1 iteration 2 iterations 3 iterations 5 iterations 8 iterations etc. . The number of iterations can depend upon a variety of factors such as the type of social network e.g. friendship network business network etc. the number of users on the social network the size of the social graph being examined empirical data regarding an optimal number of iterations to arrive at an accurate rate of detection etc.

A score propagated to a viewer node can be based upon a combination of the scores for each owner node that as indicated by the directional links of the social graph was viewed by the viewer node. Scores for the owner nodes can be combined in a variety of ways to generate the score for the viewer node. For instance the score for the viewer node can be based upon the mean the root mean square quadratic mean threshold root mean square etc. of scores for the owner nodes connected to the viewer node through directional links.

The combined scores of the owner nodes can be weighted according to a variety of factors such as the weight of each directional link connecting the viewer node to the owner node the number or ratio of owner nodes that can be classified as strongly associated with the particular subject of interest etc. An owner node that is strongly associated with the particular subject of interest can be an owner node that has a score of at least a threshold level e.g. for scores ranging from 0.0 to 1.0 an owner node that has a score of 0.8 or greater can be classified as strongly associated . In some implementations only owner nodes that have been positively identified as being associated with the particular subject of interest are classified as being strongly associated with the particular subject of interest.

For instance a score for a viewer node can be a weighted mean of the scores of the owner nodes to which the viewer node is connected by directional links. The mean score of the owner nodes can be weighted by a value that is based upon the number or ratio of owner nodes that are strongly associated with the particular subject of interest. For example the weight can be determined by the logarithm of the number of owners that are strongly associated with the particular subject of interest. By basing the weight upon a logarithmic function of the number of strongly associated owners heavy weighting of a score for a viewing node is reserved for viewing nodes that have an established pattern of viewing content associated with owner nodes that are strongly associated with the particular subject. Such a logarithmic function can protect a na ve viewer node e.g. a viewer that accidentally unintentionally ended up viewing content from a few owner nodes that are strongly associated with the particular subject of interest from receiving a heavily weighted score.

For instance assume that the particular subject of interest is content that is in violation of a EULA on a social network e.g. copyrighted material illicit content etc. . The social network would like to locate profile pages of users that are likely hosting such content. Using users that were previously identified as having profile pages containing such content the graph of the social network is seeded with positively identified nodes. Assume further that user U has viewed profile pages on the social network and user U has viewed profile pages. Two of the profile pages viewed by user U were profile pages of positively identified users e.g. owner nodes strongly associated with the particular subject of interest and of the profile pages viewed by user U were profile pages of positively identified users. Although the ratio of positively identified profile page views is the same for users U and U 40 of profile pages viewed the user U has not demonstrated the same pattern of viewing content associated with positively identified profile pages as user U e.g. user U s positively identified profile page views may have been accidental and or unrelated to content in contravention of the social network EULA . Using the logarithmic weighting function described above the score for user U can be weighted less than the score for the user U to reflect user U s lack of an established viewing pattern associated with content in contravention of the social network EULA.

Below is an example of a formula for determining the score of a viewer node using the mean of owner node scores weighted by a logarithmic function of the number of strongly associated owners.

Scores can be propagated from viewing nodes to owner nodes in a similar fashion to the description above with regard to propagation of scores from owner nodes to viewer nodes. For instance if a profile page or specific content posted on the profile page for a user U is viewed by user U U then the viewing scores for users U U can be used to generate a content owner score for user U. Techniques similar to those described above can be used to propagate scores from viewing nodes to owner nodes. For example a score for an owner of content be calculated from the mean the weighted mean the root mean square quadratic mean threshold root mean square etc. of scores for viewing scores for nodes that viewed content from the owner. The mean can be weighted based upon a number of viewer nodes that are strongly associated with the particular subject of interest e.g. nodes having a viewing score that is greater than or equal to a threshold score . For example a logarithmic function can be used for weighting the mean of viewer scores associated with an owner of content.

Below is an example of a formula for determining the score of an owner node using the mean of viewer node scores weighted by a logarithmic function of the number of strongly associated viewers.

See the disclosure below with regard to for a description of the iterative propagation of scores from owner nodes to viewer nodes and from viewer nodes to owner nodes.

With the second scores e.g. owner score determined at step the second scores can be dampened . Dampening can be performed in a manner similar to the dampening performed by the score dampening component as described above with regard to . A second score for a node can be dampened based upon the number of iterations it took for an owner score to reach the node e.g. the depth of the node . For example if an owner score was propagated to user U in a first iteration and to user U in a third iteration the score for the user U can be dampened e.g. decreased by a greater amount than the score for the user U.

The second scores can also be boosted . Boosting can be performed in a manner similar to the boosting performed by the score boosting component as described above with regard to . Score boosting can be used in a variety of instances such as when content on a user s profile page is viewed by both a large number of viewers that are strongly associated with the particular content and a large number of viewers that are not strongly associated with the particular content. For example a user profile page that contains a celebrity name may attract a large number of na ve viewers that are otherwise uninterested in the content posted on the user s profile page. In such instance the scores of na ve viewers should not dilute the scores of strongly associated viewers for the owner of the content. Scores can be boosted based upon a magnitude of strongly associated viewers of content owned by a particular user.

A portion of the second nodes can be identified as positively including content associated with the particular subject of interest . The second nodes can be identified based upon their owner scores as determined in the previously described steps. For instance a second node can be positively identified if the second node has an owner score that exceeds a threshold score. The threshold score can be determined in a variety of ways such as through analysis of empirical data associated with various threshold scores.

The identified second nodes can be provided to a variety of entities . For example the positively identified second nodes can be provided to a social network server system e.g. the social network server system to a repository of identified profiles e.g. the repository of identified profiles etc. In some implementations scores for the second nodes are provided in addition instead of information regarding positive identification. After the step the technique can end.

Referring to the technique regards iteratively propagating scores from owners of content to viewers of content and from viewers to owners of content. The technique iteratively propagates scores through a social graph that is constructed based upon user browsing patterns. The technique can be performed as part of other techniques for identifying content on a social network such as at the step of the technique .

The technique begins at step by identifying third nodes based upon directional links that indicate that users corresponding to the third nodes viewed aspects e.g. photos videos text etc. of profile pages for the first nodes. The third nodes can be viewers of content and the first nodes can be owners of content. For example referring to the social graph described with regard to if the first node is the seeded node for user U the third nodes can be the nodes for users U and U.

Scores for the identified third nodes can be determined . Scores for the third nodes can be determined similar to the technique for determining scores for nodes that are viewers of content as described above with regard to .

Second nodes can be identified based upon directional links that indicate that users corresponding to the third nodes viewed aspects of profile pages for the second nodes . The second nodes can be owners of content that the third nodes viewed. For example referring to the social graph described with regard to if the third nodes are the nodes for users U and U then the second nodes can be the nodes for users U and U. In some implementations the second nodes can additionally include the node for user U e.g. the positively identified node initially seeded with a score .

Scores can be determined for the second nodes . Scores for the second nodes can be determined similar to the technique for determining scores for nodes that are owners of content as described above with regard to .

A determination can be made as to whether more iterations of the steps should be performed . The number of iterations performed can be based upon a variety of factors such as the size of the social graph the number of users on the social network the type of social network empirical data regarding a sufficient number of iterations etc. If there are more iterations to be performed then the steps are repeated and scores are propagated further across the social graph. If there are no more iterations to perform then the technique ends.

The technique can begin at step by providing information related to users of a social network. The provided information can regard browsing patterns for users of the social network. The information can pertain to some or all of the users of the social network. For instance information regarding a sub graph e.g. a group of users on the social network with many connections to each other and few to users outside of the group of the social network can be provided. The information can be provided to a content detection server system such as the content detection server system as described above with regard to . In conjunction with the information relating to users of the social network a request to identify content pertaining to a particular subject of interest can be provided.

Information regarding first users of the social network that have been identified as having profile pages containing content associated with the particular subject of interest can be provided . For instance the social network server system can provide information regarding identified profile pages using the repository of identified profiles as described above with regard to .

Information identifying second users of the social network as having profile pages that are likely to contain content associated with the particular subject of interest can be received . For instance the social network server system can receive information identifying the second users as likely having profile pages that contain content associated with the particular subject of interest from the content detection server system as described above with regard to .

An action related to the identified second users can be performed . The action can vary depending on the particular subject of interest. For instance if the particular subject of interest is related to advertising content then the action may involve displaying an advertisement associated with the particular subject on a profile page of one of the second users. In another example if the particular subject of interest is adult content that violates a EULA for the social network the action can involve removing the content from the second users profile pages deleting disabling the second users profile pages etc. In some instance the action can involve submitting the profile pages for the second users to a queue of profile pages for manual content review. After the step the technique ends.

At time the first user client a client for a first user of a social network posts content e.g. image video text game etc. to a profile page for the first user. The second user client a client for a second user of the social network posts content to a profile page for the second user time . The third user client a client for a third user of the social network views the content posted on profile pages for both the first user and the second user time .

At time the social network server system identifies that content posted to the first user s profile page pertains to the particular subject of interest. For instance the social network server system can identify the first user s profile page in a variety of ways as described above with regard to the repository of identified profiles . The social network server system can request detection of content pertaining to the particular subject of interest time . The request can be provided from the social network server system to the content detection server system .

At time information regarding users of the social network can be retrieved by the content detection server system . The retrieved information can include browsing patterns of users of the social network. The profile content detection server system can construct a social network graph from the retrieved information time . At time the profile content detection server system can seed a node corresponding to the first user with a score that indicates the profile page for the first user was identified as containing content associated with the particular subject of interest. At time the content detection server system can propagated the seeded score from the first user to the second user based upon the third user having viewed content on both the first and second users profile pages at time . The content detection server system can identify that the profile page for the second user likely contains content associated with the particular subject of interest based upon the propagated score time .

The content detection server system can provide information regarding identification of the second user to the social network server system . At time the social network server system can perform an action with regard to the second user. As described above the action can vary depending on a variety of factors such as the particular subject of interest.

The illustration includes a social graph that is made up of nodes corresponding to users A G of a social network. The nodes are connected by directional links that indicate a user viewed content associated with another user the social graph is constructed from user browsing patterns . For example the node for user D is connected to the node for user A by a directional link that indicates the user D viewed content e.g. image video text etc. posted on the user A s profile page.

For the purposes of simplification the nodes and are depicted as being owners of content and the nodes are depicted as being viewers of content. As described above it is possible for a node to be both an owner and a viewer of content. The users D F represented by the nodes viewed content posted on profile pages for the users A C and G represented by the nodes and . As indicated by the shading for the nodes the corresponding users A C have been identified as having profile pages that contain content associated with a particular subject of interest e.g. music sports news adult content content in violation of a EULA etc. .

A chart depicts the scores for each node as they are propagated through the social graph . At a first seeding step the nodes for users A C are seeded with an initial score of 10 000. The seeded scores for nodes are propagated at step Owner Viewer to the viewer nodes using the example formula described above with regard to step . For example the node for user D is depicted in the graph as viewing content for four nodes and three of which are strongly associated with the particular subject of interest. Using the formula the viewing score for the node is calculated as 4 515 4 515 10 000 10 000 10 000 log 3 1 4 .

The scores for nodes are propagated at step Viewer Owner to the owner node using the example formula described above with regard to step . The node for user G is depicted in the graph as having content e.g. image video profile page forum post etc. that was viewed by each of the three users D F nodes . In this example each of the three nodes is considered to be strongly associated with the particular subject of interest based upon each node having an associated score that is greater than zero as depicted in the chart . Using the formula presented above and the values presented in the chart the owner score for the node is calculated as 1 847 1 847 4 515 3 181 1 505a log 3 1 3 .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. Additionally the processor may be implemented using any of a number of architectures. For example the processor may be a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computers processor a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer processor or a MISC Minimal Instruction Set Computer processor. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN peer to peer networks having ad hoc or static members grid computing infrastructures and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. Moreover other mechanisms for detecting content on a social network may be used. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

