---

title: Light guided assembly system and method
abstract: A guide system and method of projecting visual indicators onto a physical object to guide actions of an individual comprises providing a guide system having a guide system controller and a projector, with the guide system controller including a plurality of addressed display features. An input signal is provided to the guide system controller whereby an addressed display feature is selected based on the input signal and the projector projects a visual indicator corresponding to the selected addressed display feature onto a physical object. The guide system controller may also include a plurality of positional identifiers, with the method including the selecting of a positional identifier based on the input signal and the projecting of the visual indicator onto a physical object at a location corresponding to the selected positional identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09658614&OS=09658614&RS=09658614
owner: OPS Solutions LLC
number: 09658614
owner_city: Wixom
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120210
---
The present application claims priority of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 441 897 filed Feb. 11 2011 by Paul Ryznar and James Ryznar for LIGHT GUIDED ASSEMBLY SYSTEM which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is directed to improvements in a system for guiding an individual in the performance of operational steps and in particular a system that provides visual indicators to the individual.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 515 981 provides a LIGHT GUIDED ASSEMBLY SYSTEM for aiding human actions. Numerous activities involve the performance of pre designated operational steps to properly complete a particular task with some such activities needing to be completed within a specified or standard time allowance. Problems arise when such activities are improperly performed either from a workmanship standpoint and or outside the standard time allowance both of which add significant and undesirable cost and complexity to the manufacturing operations. In the case of failure to meet a standard time allowance an entire assembly process may become unbalanced resulting in costly bottlenecks and excess inventory.

In addition to manufacturing assembly operations numerous other activities involve human performance of particular tasks that are desired to be performed without omitting any steps.

The present invention provides a guide system adapted to provide visual indicators to an individual to guide actions.

According to an aspect of the present invention a method of projecting visual indicators onto a physical object to guide actions of an individual comprises providing a guide system having a guide system controller and a projector with the guide system controller including a plurality of addressed display features. The method further comprises providing an input signal to the guide system controller selecting an addressed display feature based on the input signal and projecting a visual indicator corresponding to the selected addressed display feature onto a physical object. The guide system controller may further include a plurality of positional identifiers with the method further comprising selecting a positional identifier based on the input signal and projecting a visual indicator corresponding to the selected addressed display feature onto a physical object at a location corresponding to the selected positional identifier.

The guide system controller may be interfaced with a manufacturing execution system MES wherein the input signal is provided to the guide system controller from the manufacturing execution system. Alternatively or additionally the guide system controller may be interfaced with a system controller that controls the operation of an automated process wherein the input signal is provided to the guide system controller from the system controller. The system controller may be a programmable logic controller and receive signals from a sensor apparatus wherein the input signal is provided to the guide system controller based on signals received by the system controller from the sensor apparatus. The system controller may be interfaced with a manufacturing execution system. Either the manufacturing execution system and or the system controller may receive signals from a sensor apparatus or receive manually input signals with such signals comprising or deriving an input signal to the guide system controller prompting the projection of a visual indicator.

The method may further comprise the providing of a confirmation signal to the guide system controller in response to completion of an action by an individual based on the visual indicator. A sensor apparatus may be provided that is operable to detect completion of the action with the sensor apparatus generating a confirmation signal.

The guide system may further include a camera operable to image at least one of actions of an individual guided by the visual indicator and the visual indicator with the method further including recording images while an operator is guided by the guide system and or recording the time duration while an operator is guided by the guide system. Simultaneously recorded images and recorded time durations may be displayed such as on a monitor for evaluating process improvements.

A guide system for providing visual indicators to an individual to guide actions in accordance with an aspect of the invention comprises at least one directional light device selectively operable to project and target at least one indicating light a guide system controller including a plurality of programmed addressed display features and a plurality of programmed positional identifiers. The guide system controller receives an input signal and causes the directional light device to project a visual indicator corresponding to an addressed display feature onto a physical object at a location corresponding to a positional identifier based on the input signal.

The guide system controller may be interfaced with a manufacturing execution system to provide the input signal to the guide system controller or may be interfaced with a system controller that controls the operation of an automated process to provide the input signal to the guide system. Both the manufacturing execution system and a system controller such as a programmable logic controller may receive signals from a sensor apparatus wherein the input signal is provided to the guide system controller based on the signals received by the manufacturing execution system and or the system controller from the sensor apparatus. The system controller may be interfaced with a manufacturing execution system.

A camera operable to image the actions of an individual guided by a visual indicator or a visual indicator itself may be included in the guide system where a controller such as the guide system controller records images and time durations while an operator is guided. A monitor interfaced with the guide system controller may be used to view recorded images and time durations.

Still further a guide system adapted to provide visual indicators to an individual to guide actions in accordance with the present invention comprises a guide system controller a projector selectively operable to project and target a visual indicator and a camera operable to image at least one of actions of an individual guided by the visual indicator or the visual indicator. The guide system controller receives an input signal and causes the projector to project a visual indicator onto a physical object based on the input signal with the guide system controller recording images and time durations while an individual is guided by the visual indicator which recorded images and time durations may be viewable on a monitor. The guide system controller may include a plurality of programmed addressed display features and a plurality of programmed positional identifiers wherein the guide system controller causes the projector to project the visual indicator corresponding to an addressed display feature onto a physical object at a location corresponding to a positional identifier based on the input signal.

A motion sensor may be incorporated with any of the guide systems with the motion sensor detecting three dimensional spatial motion of an individual a product or a workstation process guided by a visual indicator. The motion sensor may output a confirmation signal when the three dimensional spatial motion detected by the motion sensor complies with a desired action where the confirmation signal may be transmitted to the guide system controller and or other controllers.

According to another aspect of the invention a guide system adapted to provide visual indicators to an individual to guide sequential actions comprises an operational guide system interfaced with an operational software system or manufacturing execution system with the operational guide system comprising at least one directional light device selectively operable to project and target at least one indicating light and a controller with the controller receiving input signals and selectively providing command signals to the directional light device in response to the input signals wherein the projection of the indicating light is indicative of the command signal. The operational software system being operable to provide data inputs to the operational guide system that comprise input signals to the controller. The controller may be programmed with a plurality of addressed display features and a plurality of programmed positional identifiers where the controller receives an input signal and causes the directional light device to project a visual indicator corresponding to an addressed display feature onto a physical object at a location corresponding to a positional identifier based on the input signal.

The indicating light may create a human readable display image based on the data inputs and may comprise numbers words alphanumeric characters a drawing image and or a video image. The data inputs may alternatively or additionally direct the projection location of the indicating lights. The operational guide system may further include a sensor apparatus that is operable to detect operation information and generate an output indicative of the operation information. Conditional programming can also be employed to redirect an operator to a different set of process steps dependent on the outcome of prior steps as determined by the operator controller confirmation devices and or computer MES system or the like.

According to another aspect of the invention an operational guide system adapted to provide visual indicators to an individual to guide sequential actions comprises at least one directional light device a guide system controller and a camera. The directional guide light device being selectively operable to project and target at least one indicating light for guiding actions of an individual and the guide system controller receiving an input signal and selectively providing a command signal to the directional light device in response to the input signal wherein the projection of the indicating light is indicative of the command signal. The camera is operable to image the actions of an individual guided by the operational guide system and or the impingement of the indicating light on an object. Images recorded by the camera can be viewed in combination with recorded cycle time data to review the recorded process steps and determine corrective actions to optimize the process and or reduce cycle times.

In particular embodiments the camera may be a video camera. A monitor may be interfaced with the guide system controller such that images take by the camera are viewable on the monitor. A light controller may be interfaced with the guide system controller for providing input signals to the guide system controller for operatively controlling the projection of the indicating light. A camera controller may also be interfaced with the guide system controller with the camera controller being operable to control the zoom viewing position and or focus of the camera. Still further a computer may be interfaced with the guide system controller such as a distally located computer with the images taken by the camera being viewable on a monitor of the computer. The computer may also be operable to provide input signals to the guide system controller for operatively controlling the projection of the indicating light and or the zoom viewing position and or focus of the camera.

According to yet another aspect of the invention an operational guide system adapted to provide visual indicators to an individual to guide sequential actions includes a projection surface having a front surface and a rear surface opposite the front surface. A directional light device selectively projects and targets at least one indicating light on the rear surface of the projection surface to create display images on the projection surface wherein the display images are viewable by an individual viewing the front surface of the projection surface to guide actions of the individual.

According to another aspect of the invention an operational guide system adapted to provide visual indicators to an individual to guide sequential actions comprises at least one directional light device a guide system controller and a motion sensor. The directional guide light device being selectively operable to project and target at least one indicating light for guiding actions of an individual and the guide system controller receiving an input signal and selectively providing a command signal to the directional light device in response to the input signal wherein the projection of the indicating light is indicative of the command signal. The motion sensor detects three dimensional spatial motion such as of the individual product or workstation process being guided by the indicating light.

In particular embodiments the three dimensional spatial motion of the individual detected by the motion sensor comprises a confirmation signal when the detected motion complies with a desired action. For example the three dimensional spatial motion of the individual detected by the motion sensor may be transmitted to the guide system controller for comparison with the desired action.

The operational guide system of the present invention is thus readily programmable and adaptable to provide a cost effective and accurate method of guiding an individual through a series of tasks and may also provide confirmation that the tasks have been fully completed in the proper order as well as additional information regarding cycle times and images recorded during operations.

These and other objects advantages purposes and features of this invention will become apparent upon review of the following specification in conjunction with the drawings.

The present invention is directed toward advances in an operational light guide system that projects lights to guide actions by one or more individuals such as the operational guide system disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 515 981 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

With reference to U.S. Pat. No. 7 515 981 discloses an operational guide system or guide system in connection with the providing of visual indicators to an operator performing one or more assembly actions on a work piece at a work station of an assembly line . The illustrated guide system includes a controller or a control module two directional light devices a sensor apparatus and a confirmation module or device or element shown as a foot pedal . Guide system includes a component location which is illustrated as a parts bin a display device and a tool and tool holder .

Guide system is operable in response to an operation information or characteristic or identification information associated with work piece detected by sensor apparatus to selectively provide indicating lights to guide an operator in the selection and or assembly of parts to work piece with the indicating lights being directed and or provided based on at least in part the operation information detected by sensor apparatus . The system is also or alternatively operable in response to one or more confirmation signals such as confirmation signals and or of that are described below which may be manually or automatically supplied to control module to verify completion of a particular operation or task. The system is further operable via display device to provide and relay information to operator such as for example a listing of steps needing completion work instructions images of a work piece videos and or warnings regarding a missed or improperly performed assembly step.

Referring to when work piece initially enters work station the sensor apparatus detects an operation information or characteristic or identification information associated with the work piece such as for example the presence of and or the type of work piece present at the work station . In response to the detection by sensor apparatus a first input signal is communicated or transmitted to the control module and based on the detected or identified work piece that the operator is or will be working on the control module communicates or transmits a command signal to directional light device to project an indicating light at a location on parts bin to guide the operator to a part required for a particular step in the assembly action. After the proper part has been selected a confirmation signal is sent to the control module the control module then transmits a command signal to directional light device to project indicating light to indicate the operational step location on the work piece where the selected component is to be installed. Upon completion of a particular operation step the operator actuates the foot pedal to transmit a confirmation signal to the control module verifying that the operation step has been completed. The control module may then send another command signal to one of the directional light devices to indicate the next operation step or may release the work piece to a subsequent work station for further operations if all required pick and assembly steps have been properly completed.

Guide system is able to provide visual indicators to operator that are specific to a particular work piece such that for example multiple different styles or types of work pieces requiring different components or parts may be processed at work station with a significant reduction in the risk of the occurrence of assembly errors. The assembly guide system thus provides a cost effective and accurate method of guiding an operator through a series of tasks and provides confirmation that the tasks have been fully accomplished and completed in the proper order. The control module may also be used to monitor cycle times of the individual operational steps and combined operations undertaken at the work station for system productivity reporting or the like.

Assembly guide system is shown in in connection with work station where work station is part of an assembly line that includes additional work stations for performing subsequent operations. Additional assembly guide systems could be included at the other work stations of assembly line or a single assembly guide system could be used to aid operations at more than one work station.

As noted sensor apparatus functions to detect an operation information or characteristic or identification information associated with work piece such as the presence and or type of work piece located at the work station and may be constructed as one or more of a number of known sensors such as for example a proximity switch light curtain photo eye radio frequency identifier device bar code reader or the like. When constructed as a radio frequency identifier device or bar code reader a readable tag or bar code may be placed on either the work piece or the structure upon which the work piece is supported while traveling on the assembly line. The tag or bar code may contain information regarding the type of work piece at the work station such as the model of the work piece measurements related to the work piece or the type of components required. A scanner or reader may be handheld by the operator or mounted to the assembly line with the scanner being able to read the information from the tag or bar code when the work piece enters the work station. Alternatively a sensor apparatus may comprise a vision system configured to detect an identifiable characteristic or identification information associated with a work piece. Guide system may alternatively be activated or sequentially stepped to subsequent operations by non automated signals. For example an operator may manually enter a part type into the system depress a palm button press a touch screen or simply commence operations or pre operations on a part.

The type of part present at a particular work station need not be determined using a bar code or radio frequency system. For example and as is known in the art standard binary type sensors or cameras may be used to detect geometrically distinguishing features of a work piece or the structure upon which it is located to identify the work piece. Still further an assembly guide system could be constructed where an operator uses a hand held scanner to scan a bar code label affixed to the work piece or the structure supporting the work piece as opposed to the scanner being mounted directly to the assembly line. The sensor apparatus may also be used to detect the relative orientation of a work piece with respect to the work station with the control module adapted to receive the positional information and provide accordingly adjusted command signals to the directional light devices such that the projected indicating lights accurately impinge on the desired operational step locations. Still further the presence of a part at a work station may be supplied to the operational guide system by a manual operator activated input signal such as by a touch screen a palm button or the like.

Control module in the illustrated embodiment is a computer controller device and as indicated is adapted to receive and send various signals to monitor and guide the assembly actions at work station . Control module may be constructed as a desktop or laptop style PC a PLC or the like or may be a networked computer system that may be used to control and monitor other aspects of the assembly line and work stations.

As previously indicated control module is adapted to receive a first input signal regarding identification information of the work piece present at the work station. In the illustrated embodiment of the first input signal is transmitted to the control module directly from the sensor apparatus along communication link where link is a computer cable fiber optic line or the like. Alternatively however a first input signal may be transmitted to a network computer system and in response to the first input signal the network system may provide the control module with the identification information regarding the work piece present at the work station. The identification information as previously indicated may simply indicate the presence of a part at the work station and or may include information regarding the type of work piece at the work station such as the model of the work piece measurements related to the work piece or the type of components required. Optionally a sensor apparatus and control module may be alternatively constructed to wirelessly transmit and receive identification information.

In response to the first input signal received the control module outputs command signals to directional light devices along link to provide visual indicators to the operator as described in more detail below with the command signals being communicated based on at least in part the first input signal . In the illustrated embodiment two substantially similar directional light devices are provided at work station and are responsive to the command signals of the control module . Directional light device is used to project indicating lights at the component location while the other directional light device is used to project indicating lights at operational step locations on work piece . Each directional light device includes a light source for projecting indicating lights with the directional light devices constructed such that the indicating lights may be selectively and movably positionable to direct the indicating light at pre targeted locations. The light sources may also be constructed to provide an indicating light beam of selectively adjustable brightness to compensate for ambient surroundings and or the distance from the light source to the selected impingement point. Although light sources are illustrated in as projecting a single indicating light beam it should also be appreciated that light sources may be constructed to simultaneously project two or more beams such that for example multiple parts may be indicated for selection from location by the operator or multiple assembly locations may be indicated.

Light sources may be constructed as laser light sources that are able to project a focused coherent beam of light at a desired location. Laser light sources may preferably be class or lower lasers for employment within a visual setting for operators. Alternatively light sources other than lasers may be used and still function as intended such as standard projectors incandescent lights light emitting diodes LEDs or the like.

Light sources may be constructed such that they produce light of differing color from each other to provide further visual cues to the operator while working at work station . Furthermore light sources may be adapted to project animated images or videos onto a surface such as a surface of the work piece assembly line or a work station . The projected animated images or videos may be for example a training video and may be in a .mpeg .wmv or other such file format provided by or stored in for example a control module of an operational guide system.

Referring to the directional light devices may also include known optical effect devices for fanning or adapting or configuring the projected indicating lights produced by the light sources into a desired shape pattern or form at the point or location at which the indicating light impinges the component location or operational step location . For example the indicating light may initially be projected as a geometric shape such as a circle about a particular location to quickly attract the operator s attention and then focus to a point or circle of smaller diameter at the specific location. The indicating light may also be projected to produce alpha numeric characters such as shown in blink and or produce rotating images. For example sequential numbers may be projected where each number indicates a step in the assembly action being preformed by the operator at the work station or part numbers or textual information may be projected to provide written guidance to the operator. Indicating lights projected by light sources as described in more detail below may further be configured to display videos or pictures or animation on the surface upon which the indicating light impinges. The configured images form a type of display graphic or visual display feature VDF exhibited by an indicating light such as indicating light or when projected onto a surface with representing exemplary display graphics or VDFs.

As previously noted indicating lights may be projected at component location or at operation step locations associated with work piece . Component location is exemplified as a parts bin having multiple storage locations for holding various parts required in the assembly of work pieces . As shown directional light device is functional to selectively project an indicating light at discrete storage locations of parts bin in response to command signal to prompt the operator regarding part selection.

RFID tags or the like may also be used to supply information to the control module . For example an RFID tag located on a parts bin may be used in connection with assembly guide system for monitoring the presence and or proper location of the parts bin . In the event assembly guide system detected such as by control module the absence of parts bin an error message could be for example displayed by display device or projected by a light device or an audible warning message may be broadcast.

In the illustrated embodiment of storage locations of parts bin include detection devices that are intended to detect or sense when a component has been withdrawn from a particular storage location . Detection devices may be of known construction and are selected based on a particular application taking into consideration the types or models of work pieces and parts to be assembled. Detection devices for example may comprise light curtains proximity sensors electronic mats such as pressure sensitive mats machine vision systems or the like.

The detection devices are operable to transmit a confirmation signal to the control module along link upon selection by the operator of a part from a particular storage location with control module being functional to determine whether or not the operator has selected the correct part as prompted. In response to the confirmation signal if the operator selected the proper part as directed by the indicating light control module may terminate the indicating light projecting from directional light device at the storage location and transmit a subsequent command signal to directional light device to project an indicating light to the operational step location on the work piece where the just selected part is to be assembled. However if control module determines that an incorrect part has been selected as compared to what should have been selected as prompted by the indicating light control module will not provide the subsequent command signal . In addition control module may be constructed to provide a visual or audible signal to the operator when an improper part has been selected from a storage location .

Although not illustrated the parts bin may additionally employ a known pick to light system whereby each storage location includes an illumination device such as an LED light or the like that lights up to prompt the operator as to the proper storage location from where a part is to be selected. When the assembly guide system includes such a pick to light system the directional light device used to project an indicating light at a component location may optionally be excluded.

As noted above assembly guide system includes confirmation module which in the illustrated embodiment is a foot pedal . Confirmation module is constructed to transmit a confirmation signal along link to control module to signal that the operational step indicated by directional light device or has been completed. To transmit the confirmation signal operator simply depresses foot pedal upon completion of the directed activity. The confirmation signal transmitted by foot pedal then triggers control module to selectively transmit another command signal to provide guidance to the operator regarding the subsequent operational step that must be taken by the operator at the work station in accordance with work piece . For example the assembly guide system may cause an indicating light to be projected at a storage location for the next required part. Alternatively the control module may provide a command signal that releases the work piece to the next work station if all of the operational steps at the current work station have been completed.

Although illustrated as a foot pedal it should be understood that numerous alternative confirmation modules may be utilized. For example confirmation module may be constructed as a pressure sensitive mat push button toggle switch palm button light curtain touch screen touch pad part present sensor or the like which is constructed to be depressed switched or otherwise activated by a manual action of the operator . A sound activated signal may alternatively be employed such as a voice command to provide a confirmation signal. Confirmation module may also be constructed as a wireless transmitter thereby eliminating the need for a physical link. Further operational guide system may be adapted to receive and or respond to other confirmation signals and or sources as additional technologies become available.

Still further a confirmation module or device or element may be constructed to automatically detect when an operator has completed a manual step. For example a confirmation module may be constructed as a vision system that is able to detect the presence or absence of a component at a location such as by processing an image captured by a pixilated imaging device as is known in the art. Alternatively for example the confirmation module may be constructed as a proximity sensor photo eye light curtain or the like constructed to automatically detect the presence or absence of a part upon assembly to the work piece. Still further a confirmation signal may be transmitted by an automated tool or measuring device such as a torque gun weight scale or other type of measuring device as described in more detail below. In which case the automated tool or measuring device may function as a confirmation module. An indicating light projected by a light source of an operational guide system may also be used to provide a confirmation signal where for example a sensor is employed at the light source or elsewhere on the operational guide system to detect the reflection of an indicating light from a part or component that requires verification. The light sources may also be used as a light curtain by being projected at a particular location or parts bin or the like with a sensor adapted to detect that an operator has properly selected from that location.

It should also be appreciated that an operation information could be transmitted to the controller from a remote signal. For example in the case of a part kitting operation an order request may be transmitted to a work station from a central processing location such as a computer system or the like and transmit a signal to the work station regarding for example what parts to gather and or assemble. In which case the work piece of the operation may comprise a collection of parts assembled into a parts holder.

Although not illustrated an assembly guide system may also incorporate known ultrasonic electromagnetic and or similar technology used to confirm for example that a tool is placed onto the proper bolt or nut at an assembly operation. Such technology is configured to send and receive ultrasonic frequencies with the spatial location of a sent or received signal being monitored to confirm that an operation is performed at a proper location. Thus an assembly guide system may be configured to utilize both light sources and ultrasonic electromagnetic and or similar technology to confirm assembly or other manual process steps.

Assembly guide system also includes a display device that is able to receive display signals along link from control module and to relay information to the operator . Display device may be constructed as a television LCD LED device or other type of viewable display mechanism. Display device may be used to present information to the operator such as for example the sequential steps needing to be performed work instructions associated with the work station images of a work piece properly affixed with the part that is to be assembled information regarding a missed or improperly performed assembly step or the like. In the case of sequential steps display device may be configured to highlight the current step under consideration and or provide an indication that previous steps have been completed. The display device may be constructed as a touch screen device adapted to be depressed by an operator to provide a confirmation signal regarding completion of a particular step. The inclusion of such a touch screen device may also provide the ability to prompt or guide an operator through certain operational or assembly steps that do not require guidance via indicating light signals. The display device may also be used to show or provide instructional videos display running cycle times desired cycle times and or alerts or the like. In the case of a touch screen the touching by an operator of a particular location or tab area of the screen may display of a video or an image on the display screen or another display screen or may initiate the projection of an indicating light or video.

Optionally assembly guide system may be used in connection with a tool and a tool holder . Tool may comprise for example a manual tool such as a wrench torque wrench pliers screwdriver or the like or may be an automated tool such as an electric screwdriver air gun electric torque wrench or the like. Tool may otherwise be a manual or automated measuring device such as calipers a gauge block feeler gauges air gauge device or the like. Tool holder is intended to provide a storage location for tool when tool is not in use. Directional light devices may project an indicating light onto tool and or tool holder in response to a command signal when tool is required to complete a pending operational step such as in a similar manner as described above with respect to storage locations of parts bin and operation step locations on work piece . Tool holder may include a sensor and thereby be integrated with the assembly guide system to detect when tool is positioned within or removed from tool holder where the sensor may be a photo eye proximity switch light curtain or the like.

Although not illustrated the assembly guide system may utilize an automated gauge or tool that is electrically linked to control module such that control module is able to monitor both the use of the tool as well as an operational parameter associated with the tool. For example if a tool is constructed as a torque wrench the control module may be constructed to monitor the fastening torque obtained by the torque wrench and to compare the value to a preprogrammed or predetermined or threshold value prior to transmitting a subsequent command signal. The control thus may function to transmit the subsequent command signal only after the desired or appropriate torque has been applied by the torque wrench. Similarly if the tool is constructed as a measuring device such as digital calipers control module may be constructed to receive a measurement value and may compare the measurement value to a threshold measurement value and may communicate or transmit the subsequent command signal when the measurement value is at or near the threshold measurement value.

Control module is illustrated as transmitting command signal to directional light device which in response to command signal projects indicating light on storage location of parts bin . Upon receiving confirmation signal from detection device signifying that the proper part was selected control module then terminates projection of indicating light and transmits command signal to directional light device such that indicating light is projected on operational step location on work piece to direct operator as to the proper assembly point for the selected part. Operator then activates foot pedal or other confirmation device which transmits confirmation signal to control module and the above process is repeated for indicating lights storage locations and operational step locations 

As described in more detail below the control module and directional light devices of the assembly guide system are programmed as to the proper spatial positioning to where an indicating light is to be projected. This teaching of the assembly guide system may be accomplished in various ways. For example one teaching method involves the use of known pendant device technology where the pendant device is used to position the projected beam of the light source to a proper location such as a storage location record the coordinates and then move to the next location such as onto the work piece . Control module may also be adapted to employ voice activated programming. Alternatively a wireless transmitter may be used that may be positioned at a desired impingement point of the projected indicating light and functional to transmit the spatial positioning information to the control module. Similarly various locations such as part bins may be provided with wireless transmitters such as RFID tags with the control module being adapted to detect the signal and direct the indicating lights accordingly in which case the operational guide system is able to compensate for movement or shifting of the desired impingement points of the indicating lights. Still further control module may be directly programmed and for example may utilize a touch screen having an image of the work station with the control module being programmable using the touch screen. An operational guide system may also alternatively be programmed via a computer such as desktop or laptop or networked computer without the above noted peripheral equipment and using standard hardware such as a mouse to program the control module. The operational guide system may also employ an alignment test pattern that may be used to calibrate the system such as at the beginning of a shift to insure that the various indicating light signals are properly aimed.

Guide system also includes cycle time monitoring with display device including display fields which may be used to display to an operator the running time or remaining allowable time associated with performance of an operational step previous running times average running times and or target times for completion of the operational steps. For example cycle time monitoring display fields may show the cycle time to perform one or more previous or completed operational steps while cycle time monitoring display field and or shows the cycle time of the preceding and current operational cycle. A cycle time measurement may for example be initiated upon receipt of a first input signal from sensor apparatus and completed upon detection of a confirmation signal . Cycle time measurements of given operations or steps may be recorded and statistically reviewed such as based on longest to shortest duration and may be viewed remotely from guide system such as by connecting guide system with a networked computer system.

As previously noted control module may also be used to monitor and record various parameters useful for improving productivity. For example control module may record cycle times of the individual operational steps at a work station and or the combined cycle time of operations at a work station . Correspondingly control module or another such computational device may record and provide charts or reports regarding recorded error data such as on mis performed steps and or cycle times. In addition such data may be linked or otherwise networked or even monitored via the internet such that the variously above noted cycle times or performance parameters may be monitored from a remote computer with such data being viewable in a live format or archived.

Although not shown it should also be appreciated that the operational guide system may be adapted to additionally provide audio guidance and or instruction such as voice or sound type instruction.

It should be appreciated that numerous alternative structures and methods are contemplated within the scope of the operational guide system. For example an operational guide system need only utilize a single directional light device for projecting indicating lights at both a component location as well as operational step locations on a work piece. An operational guide system also need not employ a component location but rather may employ one or more tools with directional light devices functioning to project indicating lights at the various tools. Furthermore it should also be appreciated that the assembly guide system of may be alternatively constructed whereby the various links are not formed by computer cables or the like but are rather formed as wireless connections between the various devices. Still further each assembly step need not involve both the selection of a part and the assembly of the part to a work piece.

Operational guide systems may also be incorporated into assembly line systems with the guide systems simultaneously moving along with the item or device being assembled or constructed on the assembly line.

The operational guide system may also be configured for use with a stand alone work station as opposed to a work station integrated into an assembly line as shown in .

It should also be appreciated that numerous alternative uses and or configurations of the operational guide system exist. For example an operational guide system may be used to pick and package products into a shipping container such as a bag or box for fulfilling an order such as part kitting at order fulfillment centers supermarkets part bin loading assembly line sequencing product changeovers or the like. The operational guide system may also be used in a food production or preparation process in which for example the indicating lights may be projected onto sequentially required ingredients and may be timed depending upon when a particular ingredient is to be added.

Accordingly operational software system may be interfaced with operational guide system as shown in whereby the data transmitted by operational software system may be directly projected by guide system or used in combination with information programmed into guide system to project indicating lights to create desired images . Data inputs transmitted by operational software system such as to a control module or controller or guide controller of guide system may be used to create numerous display images including part numbers part descriptions work instructions and or graphics such as images of parts decals or label. As discussed above with regard to the embodiment of controller includes software for controlling operation of guide system with controller receiving inputs from operational software system directing use and placement of VDFs. For example data inputs transmitted from operational software system related to part information may be projected or used by guide system to project a particular part number for display to an operator and or may trigger guide system to project a display image at a particular location wherein a desired part is stored. Data inputs from operational software system related to sequential operational process descriptors may be projected or used to project step by step work instructions to an operator for accomplishing a particular task. Graphical data inputs from operational software system may be projected or used by guide system to project a depiction of a part label or decal which may for example be displayed to help an individual correctly identify and or position a particular item. Moreover the data inputs from operational software may be used and projected with or combined with standard or programmed images such as images illustrated in .

Referring now to in connection with the operation of guide system controller is illustrated to include a VDF address table or listing as well as numerous positional identifiers contained in an address table or matrix or positional listing . Controller includes numerous pre programmed VDFs that are each assigned a unique identifier which in the illustrated embodiment for exemplary purposes comprises a horizontal axes with letters A to H and a vertical axes with the numerals 1 to 7 . For example the textual VDF Select 1 is associated with the address identifier A and the textual VDF Part 6 is associated with the address identifier F. In addition to textual VDFs VDF address table includes images see A to H videos see A to H and drawings see A to H . The videos and drawings in are identified with brackets for explanation purposes but should be understood that when projected such as by a projector would form a visual indicator comprising an image video or drawing such as a picture or blueprint on the projection surface. Each unique VDF contains unique characteristic and combination of characteristics including but not limited to color font size font type width height rotation angle animation type alphanumeric code etc.

In the illustrated embodiment positional listing includes positional identifiers or addresses associated with three separate physical objects with the objects being identified or represented within positional listing of controller as canvas A canvas B and canvas C. As shown in the illustrated embodiment canvas A is associated with positional identifiers PA to PA canvas B is associated with positional identifiers PB to PB and canvas C is associated with positional identifiers PC to PC. As described in more detail below in the illustrated embodiment guide system includes three projectors with each projector being used to project light to form VDFs on the three separate physical objects. The various positional identifiers in listing therefore represent a location such as by X Y Z spatial coordinates on the physical object to which a projector and VDFs would be directed. Accordingly controller is programmed with the locations of nine positions on the physical object associated with canvas A PA to PA with the locations of sixteen positions on the physical object associated with canvas B PB to PB and with the locations of sixteen positions on the physical object associated with canvas C PC to PC . Guide system may be taught the positional identifiers in any of the manners discussed above for example or utilizing other techniques. Furthermore multiple projectors may be utilized for each physical object as necessary with each projector responsible for a specific canvas or area on the object and associated positional identifiers.

With reference to the embodiment of three separate physical objects are disclosed including a parts rack a movable sequence rack that is used to transport parts between parts rack and a vehicle such as may be located on an assembly line. With reference to parts rack is the physical object associated with canvas A sequence rack is the physical object associated with canvas B and vehicle is the physical object associated with canvas C. Further projector is utilized to project VDFs onto parts rack projector is utilized to project VDFs onto sequence rack and projector is utilized to project VDFs onto vehicle . Parts rack contains nine separate parts bins for containing different parts with each bin labeled in brackets in as Part 1 to Part 9 for explanation purposes. It should be understood that this bracketed labeling does not represent the projection of a VDF onto parts rack. Sequence rack includes sixteen separate storage locations within which parts may be stored for sequential assembly to vehicle during assembly. Moreover the nine positional identifiers PA to PA associated with canvas A correspond to the physical location of each of the nine separate parts bins of parts rack and the sixteen positional identifiers PB to PB associated with canvas B correspond to the physical location of each of the sixteen storage locations of sequence rack.

Thus in operation guide system may be prompted to project a particular VDF based on an address identifier onto a surface of a particular object based on a positional identifier with the projected VDF thereby forming a visual indicator on the object. With reference to the embodiment of for example the VDF Select 3 of address identifier C is projected by projector onto parts rack at positional locations associated with the positional identifiers of PA PA and PA to prompt an operator to select three of each of Part 2 Part 6 and Part 7 respectively. Likewise the VDF Select 1 of address identifier A is projected by projector onto parts rack at the positional location associated with the positional identifier of PA to prompt an operator to select a single one of Part 3.

Subsequent to the selection of a particular part an operator may be prompted to place the selected part into particular storage locations on sequence rack . For example the VDF Part 2 of address identifier B is projected by projector onto storage locations on sequence rack at the positional locations associated with the positional identifiers of PB PB and PB to create visual indicators and prompt the operator to place one each of the three selected Part 2 type of part into the three separate indicated storage locations. Similarly the VDF Part 3 of address identifier C is projected by projector onto the storage location of sequence rack at the positional location associated with the positional identifier PB to prompt the operator to place the selected Part 3 type of part into the indicated storage location.

Still further guide system may subsequently be utilized to aid in the assembly of the parts placed within sequence rack onto vehicle as well as perform additional assembly operations on vehicle . For example VDFs associated with address identifiers B C D F G and H may be projected by projector onto specific locations on vehicle where at the particular selected part is to be assembled in the sequence associated with their storage on sequence rack with the positional locations for assembly to vehicle being defined by the positional identifiers PC to PC. Still further additional VDFs may be projected onto vehicle such as are listed as A to F in VDF address table for example to direct inspection alignment masking or other such operations.

It should be appreciated that confirmation signals may be provided with regard to verification that the various activities undertaken by an operator as prompted by guide system were properly completed such as in the manner disclosed above with respect to guide system such as by a confirmation module. For example parts rack and or sequence rack may provide confirmation signals by way of machine vision systems light curtains push buttons as well as spatial recognition systems. Similarly operations associated with vehicle may similarly be confirmed.

Accordingly guide system may be dynamically used to project selected VDFs onto particular locations of an object by selecting a VDF via its associated VDF address identifier and directing a projector to project the selected VDF by a positional identifier . This operational approach simplifies the use and employment of guide system by enabling flexible programming to guide system including as may be required due to product and model changes.

In the embodiment of data inputs are employed to coordinate the selection of VDFs based on the associated address identifier as well as the positional location of where the VDF is to be projected based on the positional identifier. Referring now to the interface of operational software with the controller of guide system is illustrated. A communication link between system and controller is used for the exchange of data with communication link comprising a standard communication protocol such as TCP IP or the like. Controller which includes hardware and software includes an application program for interfacing with the operational software where application program may be customized based on the specific type or program of operational system employed. Also included is a guide system program with guide system program including the above noted address table and positional listing . In one embodiment application program and guide system program may interact via an application programming interface API such as Windows Communication Foundation WCF . Accordingly guide system program of guide system can be utilized with multiple different operational software systems based on the customization of application program for the particular operational software system employed. Data inputs or signals to controller such as signals representing part numbers product model numbers operational steps and the like are interpreted by controller via application program and guide system program to cause the proper selection of a VDF based on the address identifier and project it at the appropriate location based on the positional identifier.

As previously noted operational systems may include detailed information regarding production processes including the location and status of particular objects being assembled as well as the parts required to be assembled. For example operational software systems can track the model and location of a vehicle on an assembly line and thereby interact with guide system in the manner described above to coordinate the providing of the appropriate components and assembly actions. Thus operational software system may provide data streams of input signals to guide system to enable desired VDFs to be projected at desired locations. Interfacing guide system with operational software system reduces the amount of separate programming required for guide system as well as enables real time or dynamic creation of visual indicators or display images for guiding the activities of an individual. Thus increasing the flexibility of guide system based on changing operational requirements of an assembly inspection or other process requiring guidance assistance via guide system .

With further reference to a sensor apparatus may be provided such as sensor apparatus described above in reference to that may be used for triggering or sending data inputs to guide system for part selection and or confirmation. For example upon activation of guide system to perform a particular guidance procedure based on detection of a component or required assembly or inspection steps sensor apparatus may transmit a signal to operational software system identifying the particular component or required assembly steps pending at guide system . Operational software system may then transmit data inputs based on signal . Alternatively in response to an input signal transmitted by sensor apparatus to guide system such as to a control module of guide system guide system may send a signal to operational software system triggering the transmission of data inputs to guide system based on the particular component or required assembly or inspection steps pending at guide system . Still further operational software system and guide system may be integrated or interfaced in such a manner that data within operational software system is provided to or resides within guide system without the need for triggering signals. As noted sensor apparatus may be a sensor apparatus component of guide system . Alternatively sensor apparatus may be a separate component such as a device that detects the presence and or type of product at guide system or may be a device such as a computer for allowing manual inputs.

Although described above in regard to the assembly of a vehicle it should be appreciated that guide system may be employed with numerous alternative processes including assembly inspection sequencing product changeover welding stamping part kitting and the like. Moreover the guide system may include fewer or substantially more VDFs with each having its own address identifier as well as include additional positional identifiers. It should be further understood that numerous alternative VDFs may be employed as well as that multiple VDFs may be simultaneously projected or projected sequentially as desired. For example a VDF may be projected to form a visual indicator that traces a route along an object as well as traces a route along an object at a particular speed. Such a visual indicator may be used for example to aid in the application of an adhesive onto the object by enabling an operator to follow the indicator to place the adhesive in the appropriate location as well as in the proper amount based on the speed of the projected visual indicator. Still further a guide system may include fewer or more projectors and or enable a single projector to project onto multiple physical objects.

Although shown in connection with an operational software system in it should be further appreciated that guide system may be employed utilizing an addressed VDF listing and positional identifiers without an operational software system and or without a system controller as described below. In such embodiments guide system controller may be programmed by selecting VDFs to be projected based on the VDF address identifiers and the positional identifiers corresponding to the locations on a physical object thereby providing substantial flexibility to the programming of guide system controller . In such an embodiment guide system controller may receive input signals directly from a sensor apparatus and or via manual inputs from an operator.

Still further as illustrated in guide system controller may be configured for operations through a system controller such as a PLC device where the system controller may operate to control an automated process such as an assembly line and provide input signals to controller . In such an arrangement system controller may communicate with controller via an I O fieldbus interface. For example system controller may receive signals from a sensor apparatus such as a bar code reader or the like as described above in connection with system and in turn provide an input signal to guide system controller to prompt the projection of a VDF based on an address identifier at a particular physical location based on a positional identifier . It should be appreciated that application program and or guide system may operate to parse or interpret the data inputs to prompt selection of the appropriate address identifier and positional indicator. An alternative system controller may be employed comprising a software system such as a soft PLC or visual logic controller VLC software or the like for example in which case a hardware system employed with a conventional PLC device may not be required. In such a software based application the system controller may reside and operate on the guide system controller .

In turn as illustrated in an operational software system may provide communications to a system controller that is utilized to control operation of an automated process such as assembly line as well as guide system . It should be appreciated with respect to however that guide system may be controlled and interact with system controller without utilizing an operational software system . For example system controller may receive signals with regard to an operational process such as via a bar code or data reader or other such sensor with the PLC in turn providing input signals to guide system controller of guide system based on such signals and with the input signals being parsed or interpreted by the guide system control to define the appropriate addressed VDF and positional identifier.

Thus it should be understood that guide system controller of guide system may receive input signals triggering the selection of address identified VDFs and positional identifiers for directing the projection of the selected VDFs onto a desired location of a physical object from a variety of equipment controllers and systems. For example the input signals may be provided to the controller directly from an operational system where the operational system may itself receive signals from a sensor apparatus and the input signal provided by the operational system are based on the signals received by the operational system from the sensor apparatus . Input signals triggering such projection by guide system may also or alternatively be provided directly to guide system controller by a sensor apparatus . Still further a system controller may provide input signals triggering projection including via the system controller receiving signals from a sensor apparatus . It should further be appreciated that in like manner to system guide system including whether used as a stand alone system or in connection with a system controller and or a manufacturing execution system may receive confirmation signals upon completion of an activity directed by a projected visual indicator such as via the above noted techniques including via a confirmation module . That is confirmation signals may be provided directly to guide system controller such as via a confirmation module and or confirmation signals may be provided to guide system controller from a system controller and or an operational system . These various alternatives regarding input signals confirmation signals a sensor apparatus and a confirmation module are schematically illustrated in wherein it should be appreciated that the system controller and or operational system may be omitted.

Referring now to an operational guide system is illustrated where guide system shares similar components or elements with guide system such that not all of the specific construction and alternatives are discussed with regard to guide system . Guide system includes an integrated camera device that may be used to record and or review activities by an individual being guided by guide system as well as the object that is the subject of activities by the individual. Camera may be a digital camera for still pictures or a video recorder such as a webcam or a high definition video camera recorder including a video camera capable of capturing still images. Images or videos captured by camera may be recorded or stored in guide system and subsequently viewed on a display device of guide system and or on a separate display device remote from guide system such as via a computer network. Such images or videos may be used for numerous process analysis purposes including to develop process improvements such as facilitating assembly steps determine or investigate why certain operational steps exceeded a desired cycle time and monitor causes of downtime. Images recorded by camera may also be viewed in combination with recorded cycle time data to review the recorded process steps and determine corrective actions to optimize the process and or reduce cycle times.

Still further recorded and or real time images from camera may be viewed remotely from guide system such as by interfacing guide system with a monitor where monitor may be part of a computer for example integrated with guide system through an intranet or Internet connection including via a wireless connection. Computer may also be used to control various aspects of guide system including camera and a directional light device having a projecting light source. For example in one scenario guide system may be used as part of a remote training session whereby a trainer remotely located from guide system may train one or more students at a remote training station utilizing guide system . In such a scenario the surgeon may view with computer the object being worked on by the students via camera . The trainer may then control directional light device by a light controller such as a joystick to project an indicating light onto a particular location of the object at the training station for directing activities of the students. In such an embodiment guide system may also include a camera controller such as a separate joystick or the like whereby the surgeon may also control aspects of the camera such as the camera s viewing position focus and zoom. Although light controller and camera controller are illustrated as separate components it should be understood that computer may be used to control the directional light device and or camera without separate components. In another scenario camera may be used by a technician or engineer during programming of guide system such as to program a new assembly step whereby the camera would allow the programmer to view for example the work station and any associated part bins and properly direct the projection of an indicating light by directional light device .

Camera may be a separately mounted camera such as at a fixed position or mounted for movement such as by servo motors. Still further camera may be integrated with the directional light projecting devices.

Referring now to a directional light device having a light projector is illustrated relative to work station such as shown with reference to operational guide system and work station of where indicating lights projected by the light device are directed at a projection surface or screen . Projection surface allows individuals to view display images projected onto surface when the individuals are located on the opposite side of projection surface such as when an individual is standing at work area relative to directional light device and may be utilized for example in locations in which a light projector is constrained from projecting indicating lights without being blocked by an operator or additional equipment or by components located at the work station. Images projected onto a back surface or rear surface of projection surface are viewable by an operator stationed at work station when the operator views the front surface of projection surface such that the operator may see and read display images such as words pictures or videos for guiding activities at work station. Projection surface may be constructed from a conventional rear projection screen.

Although projection surface described above is constructed as a rear projection screen it should be appreciated that in an alternative embodiment a projection surface may be employed in which a directional light projection device projects images directly onto the surface viewed by an individual as opposed to the rear surface. In such an embodiment the directional light projection device may be located above or to the side of the individual being guided.

With reference to an operational guide system may also be constructed to include one or more three dimensional spatial motion sensors for monitoring activities of an operators body hand etc. and or other surfaces related to robots workstation hardware such as fixtures part bins etc. to confirm that desired operational steps are properly accomplished. Sensor may for example be used to or as part of monitoring that particular parts were properly selected from the correct bins and placed for part kitting purposes or assembled to a work piece. Sensor may additionally function as a confirmation module such as confirmation module discussed above to provide output confirmation signals comprising data related to the detected motion sensed by sensor such as to guide controller or guide control module where the detected motion data may be compared to predetermined required motions or actions to thereby aid in indicating or determining that the operational step indicated by the directional light device of guide system has been properly completed. Alternatively motion sensor may itself include processing capability for comparing detected motion to a predetermined desired action to thereby provide a confirmation signal if the guided action has been properly completed. In situations where the motion detected by sensor does not match a predetermined action a signal may be transmitted such as by a guide system controller or the sensor itself indicating as such.

Sensor may for example employ Microsoft Corporation s KINECT three dimensional spatial motion sensor technology which utilizes a three dimensional infrared laser projector and a monochrome CMOS sensor for analyzing depth as well as a separate RGB video camera. Details of such technology may be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 763 841 titled OPTICAL COMPONENT FOR A DEPTH SENSOR and U.S. Pat. No. 6 963 060 titled PHOTO SENSOR ARRAY FOR MOTION DETECTION the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. However it should be understood that alternative three dimensional spatial motion sensor technology may be employed with sensor . Still further sensor may include a camera that is additionally utilized to record and or review activities by an individual being guided by guide system such as camera of guide system of . Accordingly it should be appreciated that the sensor of guide system may be used for process analysis purposes remote user interface and or programming purposes as well as for confirmation of proper completion of guided operations.

Operational guide systems and of may be similarly constructed to operational guide system discussed above with similar components to operational guide system being identified with and added to the reference numerals of guide system and such that not all of the details of similar features are discussed with reference to guide systems and .

In addition guide systems in accordance with the present invention may include a conditional programming methodology whereby the guide system controller enables and or provides a user system controller or manufacturing execution system to re direct the guide system based on a signal received by the guide system controller. For example if a sensor apparatus detects that a guided operation was missed or not done properly the guide system may provide specific remedial guidance based on that detection. Examples include but are not limited to rework requirements help information and missing parts options. If for example a vision system sensor detects that a part is missing or a gauge tool sensor detects that a part is out of specification guide system may provide remedial guided actions to correct the error.

The guide system of the present invention thus is readily programmable and adaptable to provide a cost effective and accurate method of guiding an individual through a series of tasks and or provide confirmation that the tasks have been properly completed.

Changes and modifications in the specifically described embodiments can be carried out without departing from the principles of the present invention which is intended to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims as interpreted according to the principles of patent law including the doctrine of equivalents.

