---

title: Beneficial effects of combination therapy on cholesterol
abstract: The present invention discloses pharmaceutical combination therapies for the treatment or prevention of diseases in a mammal comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Pharmaceutical compositions containing the same and kits for achieving a therapeutic effect in a mammal comprising pharmaceutical combination therapies are further described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09050342&OS=09050342&RS=09050342
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09050342
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 468 661 filed Mar. 29 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates to pharmaceutical combination therapies for the treatment or prevention of diseases related to elevated cholesterol in a mammal comprising a Janus Kinase JAK inhibitor such as inhibitors of the enzyme Janus Kinase 3 JAK3 including a pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising the same. The invention further relates to kits for achieving a therapeutic effect in a mammal comprising pharmaceutical combination therapies.

JAK3 is a member of the Janus family of protein kinases. Although the other members of this family are expressed by essentially all tissues JAK3 expression is limited to hematopoietic cells. This is consistent with its essential role in signaling through the receptors for IL 2 IL 4 IL 7 IL 9 IL 15 and IL 21 by non covalent association of JAK3 with the gamma chain common to these multichain receptors. SCID patient populations have been identified with severely reduced levels of JAK3 protein or with genetic defects to the common gamma chain suggesting that immunosuppression should result from blocking signaling through the JAK3 pathway. Animal studies have suggested that JAK3 not only plays a critical role in B and T lymphocyte maturation but that JAK3 is constitutively required to maintain T cell function. Modulation of immune activity through this novel mechanism can prove useful in the treatment of T cell proliferative disorders such as transplant rejection and autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.

Previous therapeutic methods of using pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compounds are mentioned in U.S. Pat. No. 7 091 208 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Certain pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compounds discussed herein are also discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 627 754 and U.S. Publication No. 2003 0073719 the contents of both are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Statins are a family of molecules sharing the capacity to competitively inhibit the hepatic enzyme 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA reductase. This enzyme catalyses the rate limiting step in the L mevalonate pathway for cholesterol synthesis. Consequently statins block cholesterol synthesis and are effective in treating hypercholesterolemia. Moreover reports of several large clinical trials published during recent years have clearly shown treatment with statins to reduce cardiovascular related morbidity and mortality in patients with and without coronary disease.

The conversion of 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA to mevalonate is an early and rate limiting step in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway. This step is catalyzed by the enzyme HMG CoA reductase. Statins inhibit HMG CoA reductase from catalyzing this conversion. As such statins are collectively potent lipid lowering agents.

Atorvastatin calcium disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 which is incorporated herein by reference is currently sold as Lipitor having the chemical name R R R 2 4 fluorophenyl 8 6 dihydroxy 5 1 methylethyl 3 phenyl 4 phenylamino carbonyl 1H pyrrole 1 heptanoic acid calcium salt 2 1 trihydrate and the formula

Atorvastatin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are selective competitive inhibitors of HMG CoA reductase. As such atorvastatin calcium is a potent lipid lowering compound and is thus useful as a hypolipidemic and or hypocholesterolemic agent.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 681 893 which is incorporated herein by reference discloses certain trans 6 2 3 or 4 carboxamido substituted pyrrol 1 yl alkyl 4 hydroxy pyran 2 ones including trans 5 4 fluorophenyl 2 1 methylethyl N 4 diphenyl 1 2 tetrahydro 4 hydroxy 6 oxo 2H pyran 2 yl ethyl j 1H pyrrole 3 carboxamide.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 which is herein incorporated by reference discloses the enantiomer having the R form of the ring opened acid of trans 5 4 fluorophenyl 2 l methylethyl N 4 diphenyl 1 2 tetrahydro 4 hydroxy 6 oxo 2H pyran 2 yl ethylj 1H pyrrole 3 carboxamide ie R R R 2 4 fluorophenyl dihydroxy 5 1 methylethyl 3 phenyl 4 phenylamino carbonyl 1H pyrrole 1 heptanoic acid which is atorvastatin.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 003 080 5 097 045 5 103 024 5 124 482 5 149 837 5 155 251 5 216 174 5 245 047 5 248 793 5 280 126 5 397 792 5 342 952 5 298 627 5 446 054 5 470 981 5 489 690 5 489 691 5 510 488 5 998 633 and 6 087 511 which are herein incorporated by reference disclose various processes and key intermediates for preparing atorvastatin.

Crystalline forms of atorvastatin calcium are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 969 156 and 6 121 461 which are incorporated herein by reference.

We have surprisingly and unexpectedly found that those patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of JAK3 inhibitors and statins such as atorvastatin showed decreases in LDL level increases in HDL level increases in Apolipoprotein A 1 decreases in Apolipoprotein B decreases in triglycerides level and significant decreases in total cholesterol level.

Because cardiac and inflammation associated diseases are prevalent throughout the world the need continues to develop new and improved treatments as well as agents that will better treat and prevent these diseases. The present invention addresses these and other needs.

The present invention provides a pharmaceutical combination therapy for the treatment or prevention of a disease related to elevated cholesterol levels in a mammal comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkylsulfonyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups are optionally substituted by deuterium hydroxy amino trifluoromethyl C C alkoxy C C acyloxy C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino cyano nitro C C alkenyl C C alkynyl or C C acylamino or Ris C C cycloalkyl wherein the cycloalkyl group is optionally substituted by deuterium hydroxy amino trifluoromethyl C C acyloxy C C acylamino C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino cyano cyano C C alkyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl nitro nitro C C alkyl or C C acylamino 

Ris C C heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl groups must be substituted by one to five carboxy cyano amino deuterium hydroxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy halo C C acyl C C alkylamino amino C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkylamino CO C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C alkylamino amino C C alkyl hydroxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C acyloxy C C alkyl nitro cyano C C alkyl halo C C alkyl nitro C C alkyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C acylamino C C acylamino C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C acylamino amino C C acyl amino C C acyl C C alkyl C C alkylamino C C acyl C C alkyl amino C C acyl RRN CO O RRN CO C C alkyl C C alkyl S O RRNS O RRNS O C C alkyl RS O RN RS O RN C C alkyl wherein m is 0 1 or 2 and Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen or C C alkyl or a group of the formula

R R R R Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen or C C alkyl optionally substituted by deuterium hydroxy amino trifluoromethyl C C acyloxy C C acylamino C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino cyano cyano C C alkyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl nitro nitro C C alkyl or C C acylamino 

Ris carboxy cyano amino oxo deuterium hydroxy trifluoromethyl C C alkyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C alkoxy halo C C acyl C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino amino C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkylamino CO C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C alkylamino hydroxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C acyloxy C C alkyl nitro cyano C C alkyl halo C C alkyl nitro C C alkyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C acylamino C C acylamino C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C acylamino amino C C acyl amino C C acyl C C alkyl CC alkylamino C C acyl C C alkyl amino C C acyl RRN CO O RRN CO C C alkyl RC O NH ROC O NH RNHC O NH C C alkyl S O C C alkyl S O C C alkyl RRNS O RRNS O C C alkyl RS O RN RS O RN C C alkyl wherein m is 0 1 or 2 and Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen or C C alkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen deuterium amino halo hydroxy nitro carboxy C C alkenyl C C alkynyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkoxy or cycloalkyl groups are optionally substituted by one to three groups selected from halo hydroxy carboxy amino C C alkylthio C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino C C heteroaryl C C heterocycloalkyl C C cycloalkyl or C C aryl or Rand Rare each independently C C cycloalkyl C C cycloalkoxy C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino C C arylamino C C alkylthio C C arylthio C C alkylsulfinyl C C arylsulfinyl C C alkylsulfonyl C C arylsulfonyl C C acyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkyamino CO C C heteroaryl C C heterocycloalkyl or C C aryl wherein the heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl and aryl groups are optionally substituted by one to three halo C C alkyl C C alkyl CO NH C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkyl CO NH C C alkyl CC alkoxy CO NH C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkoxy carboxy carboxy C C alkyl carboxy C C alkoxy benzyloxycarbonyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkoxy C C aryl amino amino C C alkyl C C alkoxycarbonylamino C C aryl C C alkoxycarbonylamino CC alkylamino C C alkyl amino C C alkylamino C C alkyl C C alkyl amino C C alkyl hydroxy C C alkoxy carboxy carboxy C C alkyl C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkyl CO NH cyano C C heterocycloalkyl amino CO NH C C alkylamino CO NH C C alkyl amino CO NH C C arylamino CO NH C C heteroarylamino CO NH C C alkylamino CO NH C C alkyl C C alkyl amino CO NH C C alkyl C C arylamino CO NH C C alkyl C C heteroarylamino CO NH C C alkyl C C alkylsulfonyl C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkyl C C arylsulfonyl C C arylsulfonylamino C C arylsulfonylamino C C alkyl C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkyl C C heteroaryl or C C heterocycloalkyl.

In another embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor is 3 3R 4R 4 Methyl 3 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl amino piperidin 1 yl 3 oxopropionitrile or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In other embodiments the statin is selected from the group consisting of atorvastatin fluvastatin lovastatin pravastatin simvastatin cerivastatin rivastatin mevastatin velostatin compactin dalvastatin fluindostatin rosuvastatin pitivastatin and dihydrocompactin.

In certain embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and the HMG COA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof are administered simultaneously sequentially or separately.

In some embodiments the ratio of Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is about 2 1 to about 1 40 w w.

In other embodiments the dosage form is selected from the group consisting of a solution a suspension a tablet a pill a sachet a capsule multiparticulates and a powder.

The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The present invention also provides a method of treating a disease related to elevated cholesterol levels in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a pharmaceutical composition.

In certain embodiments of the invention the disease treated is selected from the group consisting of atherosclerosis myocardial infarction hypocholesterolemia hyperlipidemia ischemic heart disease congestive heart failure acute coronary syndrome plaque instability coronary artery disease cerebrovascular disease peripheral vascular disease and cardiac risk management.

The present invention further provides a method of inhibiting cholesterol biosynthesis in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a pharmaceutical composition.

The present invention also provides a method of lowering blood cholesterol level in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a pharmaceutical composition.

The present invention further provides a kit for achieving a therapeutic effect in a mammal comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a therapeutically effective amount of a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a container.

Although specific embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described with reference to certain preferred embodiments described in the preparations and schemes it should be understood that such embodiments are by way of example only and merely illustrative of but a small number of the many possible specific embodiments which can represent applications of the principles of the present disclosure. Various changes and modifications will be obvious to those of skill in the art given the benefit of the present disclosure and are deemed to be within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as further defined in the appended claims.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one having ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure belongs.

Before describing the present invention in detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to specific compositions or process steps as such may vary. It should be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular form a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a compound includes a plurality of compounds.

The term alkyl as used herein unless otherwise indicated includes saturated monovalent hydrocarbon radicals having straight or branched moieties or combinations thereof.

The term C C heterocycloalkyl as used herein refers to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl pyranyl thiopyranyl aziridinyl oxiranyl methylenedioxyl chromenyl isoxazolidinyl 1 3 oxazolidin 3 yl isothiazolidinyl 1 3 thiazolidin 3 yl 1 2 pyrazolidin 2 yl 1 3 pyrazolidin 1 yl piperidinyl thiomorpholinyl 1 2 tetrahydrothiazin 2 yl 1 3 tetrahydrothiazin 3 yl tetrahydrothiadiazinyl morpholinyl 1 2 tetrahydrodiazin 2 yl 1 3 tetrahydrodiazin 1 yl tetrahydroazepinyl piperazinyl chromanyl etc. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the connection of said C C heterocycloalkyl rings is through a carbon or a sphybridized nitrogen heteroatom.

The term C C heteroaryl as used herein refers to furyl thienyl thiazolyl pyrazolyl isothiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl pyrrolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl imidazolyl 1 3 5 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 3 5 thiadiazolyl 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl 1 2 4 triazinyl 1 2 3 triazinyl 1 3 5 triazinyl pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridinyl cinnolinyl pteridinyl purinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H 1 pyrindinyl benzo b thiophenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro quinolin 3 yl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzisothiazolyl benzisoxazolyl benzimidazolyl thianaphthenyl isothianaphthenyl benzofuranyl isobenzofuranyl isoindolyl indolyl indolizinyl indazolyl isoquinolyl quinolyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzoxazinyl etc. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the connection of said C C heterocycloalkyl rings is through a carbon atom or a sphybridized nitrogen heteroatom.

The terms inflammation and inflammation associated refer to any and all such inflammatory reactions including but not limited to immune related responses and or allergic reactions to a physical chemical or biological stimului. Such inflammation associated diseases include for example osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritic joint pain rheumatoid arthritic joint joint pain inflammatory pain acute pain chronic pain and cartilage damage.

The terms uses utilizes and employs and their derivatives thereof are used interchangeably when describing an aspect of an invention method composition or combination.

The term nontoxic means the efficacious dose is 10 times or greater than the dose at which a toxic effect is observed in 10 or more of a patient population.

The term mammal includes humans companion animals such as cats and dogs livestock animals such as horses cows pigs goats and sheep and laboratory animals such as guinea pigs rabbits rats mice hamsters and monkeys and transgenic variants thereof. A human patient is preferred. Also preferred are companion animals particularly dogs cats and horses. Also preferred are laboratory animals particularly rabbits rats mice and monkeys and transgenic variants thereof.

The terms treat and treating as used herein refer to partially or completely alleviating inhibiting ameliorating and or relieving a condition from which a patient is suspected to suffer.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to any salt e.g. obtained by reaction with an acid or a base of a compound of the present invention that is physiologically tolerated in the target animal e.g. a mammal . Salts of the compounds of the present invention may be derived from inorganic or organic acids and bases. Examples of acids include but are not limited to hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric nitric perchloric fumaric maleic phosphoric glycolic lactic salicylic succinic toluene p sulfonic tartaric acetic citric methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic formic benzoic malonic sulfonic naphthalene 2 sulfonic benzenesulfonic acid and the like.

Examples of bases include but are not limited to alkali metal e.g. sodium hydroxides alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium hydroxides ammonia and compounds of formula NW wherein W is Calkyl and the like.

Examples of salts include but are not limited to acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate citrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate fumarate flucoheptanoate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate chloride bromide iodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate lactate maleate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate oxalate palmoate pectinate persulfate phenylpropionate picrate pivalate propionate succinate tartrate thiocyanate tosylate undecanoate and the like. Other examples of salts include anions of the compounds of the present invention compounded with a suitable cation such as Na NH and NW wherein W is a Calkyl group and the like. For therapeutic use salts of the compounds of the present invention are contemplated as being pharmaceutically acceptable. However salts of acids and bases that are non pharmaceutically acceptable may also find use for example in the preparation or purification of a pharmaceutically acceptable compound.

The term therapeutically effective amount as used herein refers to that amount of the therapeutic agent sufficient to result in amelioration of one or more symptoms of a disorder or prevent advancement of a disorder or cause regression of the disorder. For example with respect to the treatment of asthma a therapeutically effective amount preferably refers to the amount of a therapeutic agent that increases peak air flow by at least 5 preferably at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 100 .

The term pharmaceutical combination therapy or just combination therapy as used herein generally refers to the administration of a Janus Kinase inhibitor in combination with a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein. In other words the term pharmaceutical combination therapy means the Janus Kinase inhibitor such as a compound of formula I may be administered concomitantly in a pharmaceutically acceptable form with a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein i in the same dosage form e.g. the same tablet or pharmaceutical composition meaning a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor such as a compound of formula I a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier ii in a separate dosage form having the same mode of administration e.g. a kit comprising a first pharmaceutical composition suitable for oral administration comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor such as a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a second pharmaceutical composition suitable for oral administration comprising a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and iii in a separate dosage form having different modes of administration e.g. a kit comprising a first pharmaceutical composition suitable for oral administration comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor such as a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a second pharmaceutical composition suitable for parenteral administration comprising a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Further those of skill in the art given the benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate that when a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein is being administered the agents need not share the same mode of administration e.g. a kit comprising a first pharmaceutical composition suitable for oral administration comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor such as a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier a second pharmaceutical composition suitable for oral administration comprising a first a HMG COA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a third pharmaceutical composition suitable for parenteral administration comprising a second a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the concomitant administration referred to above in the context of a pharmaceutical combination therapy means that the pharmaceutical composition comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a pharmaceutical composition s comprising the a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor can be administered on the same schedule i.e. at the same time and day or on a different schedule i.e. on different although not necessarily distinct schedules. In that regard when the pharmaceutical composition comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a pharmaceutical composition s comprising the a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor is administered on a different schedule such a different schedule may also be referred to herein as background or background administration. For example the pharmaceutical composition comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor may be administered in a certain dosage form twice a day and the pharmaceutical composition s comprising the a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor may be administered once a day such that the pharmaceutical composition comprising the Janus Kinase inhibitor may but not necessarily be administered at the same time as the pharmaceutical composition s comprising the a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor during one of the daily administrations. Of course other suitable variations to pharmaceutical combination therapy will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art given the benefit of the present disclosure and are part of the meaning of this term.

The term Janus Kinase inhibitor as used herein means a compound s that demonstrates an inhibitory effect against one or more Janus Kinases i.e. one of JAK1 JAK2 and JAK3 as measured by the Biological Assays disclosed herein. Exemplary Janus Kinase inhibitors include those of Formula I disclosed here. A preferable Janus Kinase inhibitor is 3 3R 4R 4 Methyl 3 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl amino piperidin 1 yl 3 oxo propionitrile or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The term co administering means the concomitant administering of a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG COA reductase inhibitor as the term concomitant is used in the definition of pharmaceutical combination therapy .

In one aspect this disclosure relates to a pharmaceutical combination therapy for the treatment or prevention of rheumatoid arthritis in a human comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a HMG COA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl CC alkylsulfonyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups are optionally substituted by deuterium hydroxy amino trifluoromethyl C C alkoxy C C acyloxy C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino cyano nitro C C alkenyl C C alkynyl or C C acylamino or Ris C C cycloalkyl wherein the cycloalkyl group is optionally substituted by deuterium hydroxy amino trifluoromethyl C C acyloxy C C acylamino C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino cyano cyano C C alkyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl nitro nitro C C alkyl or C C acylamino 

Ris C C heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl groups must be substituted by one to five carboxy cyano amino deuterium hydroxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy halo C C acyl C C alkylamino amino C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkylamino CO C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C alkylamino amino C C alkyl hydroxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C acyloxy C C alkyl nitro cyano C C alkyl halo C C alkyl nitro C C alkyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C acylamino C C acylamino C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C acylamino amino C C acyl amino C C acyl C C alkyl C C alkylamino C C acyl C C alkyl amino C C acyl RRN CO O RRN CO C C alkyl C C alkyl S O RRNS O RRNS O C C alkyl RS O RN RS O RN C C alkyl wherein m is 0 1 or 2 and Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen or C C alkyl or a group of the formula

R R R R Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen or C C alkyl optionally substituted by deuterium hydroxy amino trifluoromethyl C C acyloxy C C acylamino C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino cyano cyano C C alkyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl nitro nitro C C alkyl or C C acylamino 

Ris carboxy cyano amino oxo deuterium hydroxy trifluoromethyl C C alkyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C alkoxy halo C C acyl C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino amino C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkylamino CO C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C alkylamino hydroxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C acyloxy C C alkyl nitro cyano C C alkyl halo C C alkyl nitro C C alkyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethyl C C alkyl C C acylamino C C acylamino C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C acylamino amino C C acyl amino C C acyl C C alkyl CC alkylamino C C acyl C C alkyl amino C C acyl RRN CO O RRN CO C C alkyl RC O NH ROC O NH RNHC O NH C C alkyl S O C C alkyl S O C C alkyl RRNS O RRNS O C C alkyl RS O RN RS O RN C C alkyl wherein m is 0 1 or 2 and Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen or C C alkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen deuterium amino halo hydroxy nitro carboxy C C alkenyl C C alkynyl trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C cycloalkyl wherein the alkyl alkoxy or cycloalkyl groups are optionally substituted by one to three groups selected from halo hydroxy carboxy amino C C alkylthio C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino C C heteroaryl C C heterocycloalkyl C C cycloalkyl or C C aryl or Rand Rare each independently C C cycloalkyl C C cycloalkoxy C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino C C arylamino C C alkylthio C C arylthio C C alkylsulfinyl C C arylsulfinyl C C alkylsulfonyl C C arylsulfonyl C C acyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkylamino CO C C heteroaryl C C heterocycloalkyl or C C aryl wherein the heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl and aryl groups are optionally substituted by one to three halo C C alkyl C C alkyl CO NH C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkyl CO NH C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkoxy carboxy carboxy C C alkyl carboxy C C alkoxy benzyloxycarbonyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkoxy C C aryl amino amino C C alkyl C C alkoxycarbonylamino C C aryl C C alkoxycarbonylamino C C alkylamino C C alkyl amino C C alkylamino C C alkyl C C alkyl amino C C alkyl hydroxy C C alkoxy carboxy carboxy C C alkyl C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkoxycarbonyl C C alkyl C C alkoxy CO NH C C alkyl CO NH cyano C C heterocycloalkyl amino CO NH C C alkylamino CO NH C C alkyl amino CO NH C C arylamino CO NH C C heteroarylamino CO NH C C alkylamino CO NH C C alkyl C C alkyl amino CO NH C C alkyl C C arylamino CO NH C C alkyl C C heteroarylamino CO NH C C alkyl C C alkylsulfonyl C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkyl C C arylsulfonyl C C arylsulfonylamino C C arylsulfonylamino C C alkyl C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkylsulfonylamino C C alkyl C C heteroaryl or C C heterocycloalkyl.

In certain embodiments in the compound of formula I the Janus Kinase inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of 

In certain embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor is 3 4 Methyl 3 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl amino piperidin 1 yl 3 oxo propionitrile or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In certain embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor is 3 3R 4R 4 Methyl 3 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl amino piperidin 1 yl 3 oxo propionitrile or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In certain embodiments the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of 3 4 Methyl 3 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl amino piperidin 1 yl 3 oxo propionitrile and or 3 3R 4R 4 Methyl 3 methyl 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 yl amino piperidin 1 yl 3 oxo propionitrile is a citrate salt such as a mono citrate salt. In certain embodiments such compounds are crystalline as discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 965 027 the contents of which are hereby incorporated here by reference.

The Janus Kinase inhibitors of the present disclosure can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt. The acids which are used to prepare the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the aforementioned base compounds of this disclosure are those which form non toxic acid addition salts i.e. salts containing pharmacologically acceptable anions such as the hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide nitrate sulfate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate acetate lactate citrate acid citrate tartrate bitartrate succinate maleate fumarate gluconate saccharate benzoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts.

The Janus Kinase inhibitors of the present disclosure can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt. The chemical bases that may be used as reagents to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable base salts of those compounds of formula I that are acidic in nature are those that form non toxic base salts with such compounds. Such non toxic base salts include but are not limited to those derived from such pharmacologically acceptable cations such as alkali metal cations e.g. potassium and sodium and alkaline earth metal cations e.g. calcium and magnesium ammonium or water soluble amine addition salts such as N methylglucamine meglumine and the lower alkanolammonium and other base salts of pharmaceutically acceptable organic amines.

Certain of the Janus Kinase inhibitors mentioned here are basic in nature are capable of forming a wide variety of different salts with various inorganic and organic acids. Although such salts must be pharmaceutically acceptable for administration to animals it is often desirable in practice to initially isolate the compound of the present disclosure from the reaction mixture as a pharmaceutically unacceptable salt and then simply convert the latter back to the free base compound by treatment with an alkaline reagent and subsequently convert the latter free base to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt. The acid addition salts of the base compounds of this disclosure are readily prepared by treating the base compound with a substantially equivalent amount of the chosen mineral or organic acid in an aqueous solvent medium or in a suitable organic solvent such as methanol or ethanol. Upon careful evaporation of the solvent the desired solid salt is readily obtained. The desired acid salt can also be precipitated from a solution of the free base in an organic solvent by adding to the solution an appropriate mineral or organic acid.

Certain of the Janus Kinase inhibitors mentioned here are acidic in nature and are capable of forming base salts with various pharmacologically acceptable cations. Examples of such salts include the alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts and particularly the sodium and potassium salts. These salts are all prepared by conventional techniques. The chemical bases which are used as reagents to prepare the pharmaceutically acceptable base salts of this disclosure are those which form non toxic base salts with the acidic compounds of the present disclosure. Such non toxic base salts include those derived from such pharmacologically acceptable cations as sodium potassium calcium and magnesium etc. These salts can easily be prepared by treating the corresponding acidic compounds with an aqueous solution containing the desired pharmacologically acceptable cations and then evaporating the resulting solution to dryness preferably under reduced pressure. Alternatively they may also be prepared by mixing lower alkanolic solutions of the acidic compounds and the desired alkali metal alkoxide together and then evaporating the resulting solution to dryness in the same manner as before. In either case stoichiometric quantities of reagents are preferably employed in order to ensure completeness of reaction and maximum yields of the desired final product.

In certain embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor is a compound specified and or exemplified in U.S. Pat. No. 6 635 762 U.S. Publication No. 2004 0058922A1 U.S. Pat. No. 6 610 847 U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 929 U.S. Publication No. 2005 0171128 U.S. Pat. No. 6 627 754 U.S. Pat. No. 6 956 041 U.S. Pat. No. 7 091 208 U.S. Pat. No. 6 696 567 U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 993 U.S. Publication No. 2005 0197349 U.S. Publication No. 2003 0073719A1 U.S. Publication No. 2004 0229923 A1 U.S. Pat. No. 6 965 027 U.S. Publication No. 2005 0159434A1 the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The Janus Kinase inhibitors as used in the combination therapy of the present disclosure include all conformational isomers e.g. cis and trans isomers and mixtures thereof. Such compounds have asymmetric centers readily apparent to those of skill in the art and therefore exist in different enantiomeric and diastereomeric forms. This disclosure relates to the use of all optical isomers and stereoisomers of such compounds used in the present disclosure and mixtures thereof and to all pharmaceutical compositions and methods of treatment that may employ or contain them. In this regard this disclosure includes both the E and Z configurations. In particular resolution of racemic mixtures of enantiomers of compounds used in providing the Rsubstituent of formula I is effected by treating the racemic mixture of the compound of formula HNRR e.g. a compound of formula III below with a specific optical isomer of a disubstituted tartaric acid or tartrate in an appropriate solvent such as ethanol with or without water as a co solvent. The desired enantiomer can be obtained in excess of 90 using such methods disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 10 154 699 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Specific resolving agents useful in said resolution include optical isomers of tartaric acid and tartaric acid derivatives such as di p toluoyl L tartaric acid and S Andeno acid pencyphos S 2 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 4 phenyl 1 3 2 dioxyphosphorinane 2 oxide salt. Of course those of skill in the art given the benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate other suitable resolving agents potentially useful for resolving such compounds of formula HNRR.

The Janus Kinase inhibitors as used in the combination therapy of the present disclosure may also exist as tautomers. This disclosure relates to the use of all such tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Interaction between antipodes of the resolving material and specific enantiomer provides a resolution of the racemic mixture whereby a precipitate of the resolving material and enantiomer provides one of the desired stereospecific materials and wherein the remaining enantiomer in solution can be separately isolated thereby. Thus depending on the specific enantiomer desired and the separation method to be used i.e. from precipitate or solution the stereospecific nature of the resolving nature can be concomitantly selected e.g. an L form of the resolving agent such as a tartrate derivative provides a precipitate of an R form of the Rsubstituent and a solution containing the L form and vice versa.

The aforementioned resolving agents are effective in providing a 3R 4R enantiomer of the compound of the formula III either in precipitate or solution as described 

a mixing a racemic mixture of the compound of formula III in an appropriate solution with a resolving compound having a defined stereospecificity for a time sufficient to allow substantial precipitation of a stereospecific isomer of the racemic mixture from the solution 

b depending on the stereospecific form of the compound which is desired collecting either the precipitate and purifying it or collecting the mother liquor and recrystallizing the enantiomer contained therein.

With some materials a slurry rather than a solution is formed with the resolution of the present disclosure involving a slurry to slurry conversion. The term solution encompasses both a solution and a slurry.

The temperature at which the resolution and precipitation is effected is preferably ambient temperature and while precipitation time is not restricted for efficiency the time is preferably no more than about four hours. In order to facilitate the resolution it is desirable to use enantiomers in the racemic mixture which are in a stable form and the compound of formula II is most stable in acid addition salt form such as a hydrochloride salt rather than a free base form and it is preferred that the racemic compound mixture be accordingly converted prior to resolution. Thus for example formation of the hydrochloride salt of the compound of formula II is effected preferably in ethanol with a small amount of toluene as cosolvent. Alternatively methanol isopropanol acetonitrile or tetrahydrofuran or mixtures thereof with or without water as a cosolvent with cosolvents of toluene ethylacetate dichloromethane dichloroethane or tetrahydrofuran may be used in the salt formation. The HCl salt is particularly preferred since this form provides a superior purification and enriched of other stereoisomers from the prior step.

A preferred displacement solvent used in the resolution is ethyl acetate. Toluene acetonitrile or heptanes are also useful as solvents.

A preferred isolation solvent is acetone. Other solvents useful in this regard include isopropanol ethanol methyl ethyl ketone methyl isopropyl ketone acetonitrile and tetrahydrofuran. The solvents may also be used as cosolvents with each other or with water.

Preferred resolution compounds include tartaric acid and its derivatives such as toluoyl and benzoyl tartaric acids in stereospecific conformation as described. Other resolution compounds include stereospecific adeno acid and derivatives thereof.

To facilitate precipitation and recrystallization addition of seeds is optional but preferred in order to obtain higher ee material with fewer recrystallizations.

This disclosure also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions containing prodrugs of the Janus Kinase inhibitors of the present disclosure such as the compounds of the formula I and the use of such prodrugs in the presently disclosed pharmaceutical combination therapies. Compounds of formula I having free amino amido hydroxy or carboxylic groups can be converted into prodrugs. Prodrugs include compounds wherein an amino acid residue or a polypeptide chain of two or more e.g. two three or four amino acid residues which are covalently joined through peptide bonds to free amino hydroxy or carboxylic acid groups of compounds of formula I. The amino acid residues include the 20 naturally occurring amino acids commonly designated by three letter symbols and also include 4 hydroxyproline hydroxylysine demosine isodemosine 3 methylhistidine norvlin beta alanine gamma aminobutyric acid citrulline homocysteine homoserine ornithine and methionine sulfone. Prodrugs also include compounds wherein carbonates carbamates amides and alkyl esters which are covalently bonded to the above substituents of formula I through the carbonyl carbon prodrug sidechain.

In reaction 1 of Preparation A the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XXI wherein R is hydrogen or a protecting group such as benzenesulfonyl or benzyl is converted to the 4 chloro 5 halopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XX wherein Y is chloro bromo or iodo by reacting XXI with N chlorosuccinimide N bromosuccinimide or N iodosuccinimide. The reaction mixture is heated to reflux in chloroform for a time period between about 1 hour to about 3 hours preferably about 1 hour. Alternatively in reaction 1 of Preparation A the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine of formula XXI wherein R is hydrogen is converted to the corresponding 4 chloro 5 nitropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine of formula XX wherein Y is nitro by reacting XXI with nitric acid in sulfuric acid at a temperature between about 10 C. to about 10 C. preferably about 0 C. for a time period between about 5 minutes to about 15 minutes preferably about 10 minutes. The compound of formula XXI wherein Y is nitro is converted to the corresponding 4 chloro 5 aminopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine of the formula XX wherein Y is amino by reacting XXI under a variety of conditions known to one skilled in the art such as palladium hydrogenolysis or tin IV chloride and hydrochloric acid.

In reaction 2 of Preparation A the 4 chloro 5 halopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XX wherein R is hydrogen is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XIX wherein Ris C C alkyl or benzyl by treating XX with N butyllithium at a temperature of about 78 C. and reacting the dianion intermediate so formed with an alkylhalide or benzylhalide at a temperature between about 78 C. to room temperature preferably room temperature. Alternatively the dianion so formed is reacted with molecular oxygen to form the corresponding 4 chloro 5 hydroxypyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XIX wherein Ris hydroxy. The compound of formula XX wherein Y is bromine or iodine and R is benzenesulfonate is converted to the compound of formula XIX wherein Ris C C aryl or vinyl by treating XX with N butyllithium at a temperature of about 78 C. followed by the addition of zinc chloride at a temperature of about 78 C. The corresponding organo zinc intermediate so formed is then reacted with aryliodide or vinyl iodide in the presence of a catalytic quantity of palladium. The reaction mixture is stirred at a temperature between about 50 C. to about 80 C. preferably about 70 C. for a time period between about 1 hour to about 3 hours preferably about 1 hour.

In reaction 3 of Preparation A the compound of formula XIX is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XVI by treating XIX with N butyllithium lithium diisopropylamine or sodium hydride at a temperature of about 78 C. in the presence of a polar aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. The anionic intermediate so formed is further reacted with a alkylhalide or benzylhalide at a temperature between about 78 C. to room temperature preferably 78 C. when Ris alkyl or benzyl b an aldehyde or ketone at a temperature between about 78 C. to room temperature preferably 78 C. when Ris alkoxy and c zinc chloride at a temperature between about 78 C. to room temperature preferably 78 C. and the corresponding organozinc intermediate so formed is then reacted with aryliodide or vinyl iodide in the presence of a catalytic quantity of palladium. The resulting reaction mixture is stirred at a temperature between about 50 C. to about 80 C. preferably about 70 C. for a time period between about 1 hour to about 3 hours preferably about 1 hour. Alternatively the anion so formed is reacted with molecular oxygen to form the corresponding 4 chloro 6 hydroxypyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XVI wherein Ris hydroxy.

In reaction 1 of Preparation B the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XXI is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XXII according to the procedure described above in reaction 3 of Preparation A.

In reaction 2 of Preparation B the compound of formula XXII is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XVI according to the procedures described above in reactions 1 and 2 of Preparation A.

In reaction 1 of Scheme 1 the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XVII is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XVI wherein R is benzenesulfonyl or benzyl by treating XVII with benzenesulfonyl chloride benzylchloride or benzylbromide in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or potassium carbonate and a polar aprotic solvent such as dimethylformamide or tetrahydrofuran. The reaction mixture is stirred at a temperature between about 0 C. to about 70 C. preferably about 30 C. for a time period between about 1 hour to about 3 hours preferably about 2 hours.

In reaction 2 of Scheme 1 the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XVI is converted to the corresponding 4 aminopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XV by coupling XVI with an amine of the formula HNRR. In certain embodiments the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XVI is coupled with the enantiomer obtained with the resolution of NHRR i.e. a single stereoisomer of formula III to arrive at the corresponding 4 aminopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XV which has the same stereochemistry as the resolved reactant of formula NHRR. That is the coupling reaction 2 in such embodiments proceeds without inversion or loss of stereochemistry and instead proceeds with retention of stereochemistry. Such lack of inversion or loss of stereochemistry and retention of stereochemistry continues for the remainder of the synthesis described below to arrive at the compounds of formula I. The reaction is carried out in an alcohol solvent such as tert butanol methanol or ethanol or other high boiling organic solvents such as dimethylformamide triethylamine 1 4 dioxane or 1 2 dichloroethane at a temperature between about 60 C. to about 120 C. preferably about 80 C. Typical reaction times are between about 2 hours to about 48 hours preferably about 16 hours. When Ris a nitrogen containing heterocycloalkyl group each nitrogen must be protected by a protecting group such a benzyl. Removal of the Rprotecting group is carried out under conditions appropriate for that particular protecting group in use which will not affect the R protecting group on the pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine ring. Removal of the Rprotecting group when benzyl is carried out in an alcohol solvent such as ethanol in the presence of hydrogen and a catalyst such as palladium hydroxide on carbon. The Rnitrogen containing heterocycloalkyl group so formed may be further reacted with a variety of different electrophiles of formula II. For urea formation electrophiles of formula II such as isocyanates carbamates and carbamoyl chlorides are reacted with the Rnitrogen of the heteroalkyl group in a solvent such as acetonitrile or dimethylformamide in the presence of a base such as sodium or potassium carbonate at a temperature between about 20 C. to about 100 C. for a time period between about 24 hours to about 72 hours. For amide and sulfonamide formation electrophiles of formula II such as acylchlorides and sulfonyl chlorides are reacted with the Rnitrogen of the heteroalkyl group in a solvent such as methylene chloride in the presence of a base such as pyridine at ambient temperatures for a time period between about 12 hours to about 24 hours. Amide formation may also be carried out by reacting a carboxylic acid with the heteroalkyl group in the presence of a carbodiimide such as 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide in a solvent such as methylene chloride at ambient temperatures for 12 24 hours. For alkyl formation electrophiles of formula II such as unsaturated amides acids nitriles esters and halo amides are reacted with the Rnitrogen of the heteroalkyl group in a solvent such as methanol at ambient temperatures for a time period between about 12 hours to about 18 hours. Alkyl formation may also be carried out by reacting aldehydes with the heteroalkyl group in the presence of a reducing agent such as sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as methanol at ambient temperature for a time period between about 12 hours to about 18 hours.

In reaction 3 of Scheme 1 removal of the protecting group from the compound of formula XV wherein R is benzenesulfonyl to give the corresponding compound of formula I is carried out by treating XV with an alkali base such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide in an alcohol solvent such as methanol or ethanol or mixed solvents such as alcohol tetrahydrofuran or alcohol water. The reaction is carried out at room temperature for a time period between about 15 minutes to about 1 hour preferably 30 minutes. Removal of the protecting group from the compound of formula XV wherein R is benzyl is conducted by treating XV with sodium in ammonia at a temperature of about 78 C. for a time period between about 15 minutes to about 1 hour.

In reaction 1 of Scheme 2 the 4 chloropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XX is converted to the corresponding 4 aminopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XXIV according to the procedure described above in reaction 2 of Scheme 1.

In reaction 2 of Scheme 2 the 4 amino 5 halopyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine compound of formula XXIV wherein R is benzenesulfonate and Z is bromine or iodine is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XXII by reacting XXIV with a arylboronic acid when Ris aryl in an aprotic solvent such tetrahydrofuran or dioxane in the presence of a catalytic quantity of palladium 0 at a temperature between about 50 C. to about 100 C. preferably about 70 C. for a time period between about 2 hours to about 48 hours preferably about 12 hours b alkynes when Ris alkynyl in the presence of a catalytic quantity of copper I iodide and palladium 0 and a polar solvent such as dimethylformamide at room temperature for a time period between about 1 hour to about 5 hours preferably about 3 hours and c alkenes or styrenes when Ris vinyl or styrenyl in the presence of a catalytic quantity of palladium in dimethylformamide dioxane or tetrahydrofuran at a temperature between about 80 C. to about 100 C. preferably about 100 C. for a time period between about 2 hours to about 48 hours preferably about 48 hours.

In reaction 3 of Scheme 2 the compound of formula XXIII is converted to the corresponding compound of formula XV according to the procedure described above in reaction 3 of Preparation A.

In reaction 1 of Scheme 3 the compound of formula XVII is converted to the corresponding compound of formula I according to the procedure described above in reaction 2 of Scheme 1.

In certain embodiments the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor is a statin. HMG CoA reductase catalyzes the conversion of HMG CoA to mevalonate which is an early and rate limiting step in the biosynthesis of cholesterol. Compounds that inhibit the activity of HMG CoA reductase can be readily identified by using assays well known in the art see as examples the assays described or cited in U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 938 at column 6 and in International Patent Publication WO 84 02131 at pp. 30 33.

In other embodiments the statin is selected from the group consisting of atorvastatin fluvastatin lovastatin pravastatin simvastatin cerivastatin rivastatin mevastatin velostatin compactin dalvastatin fluindostatin rosuvastatin pitivastatin and dihydrocompactin. In some embodiments the statin is atorvastatin. In another embodiments the statin is atorvastatin calcium salt. Examples of useful statins include atorvastatin simvastatin pravastatin cerivastatin mevastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 3 883 140 velostatin also called synvinolin see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 448 784 and 4 450 171 fluvastatin lovastatin dalvastatin rosuvastatin and fluindostatin Sandoz XU 62 320 dalvastain EP Appln. PubIn. No. 738510 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Cerivastatin sodium is marketed under the tradename BAYCHOL also called rivastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 5 502 199 

The compositions of the present disclosure may be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can be any such carrier known in the art including those described in for example Mack Publishing Co. A. R. Gennaro edit. 1985 . Pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds presently disclosed may be prepared by conventional means known in the art including for example mixing at least one presently disclosed compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The compounds presently disclosed may also be formulated for sustained delivery according to methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Examples of such formulations can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 119 742 3 492 397 3 538 214 4 060 598 and 4 173 626.

Thus the active compounds of the disclosure may be formulated for oral buccal intranasal parenteral e.g. intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous rectal administration in a form suitable for administration by inhalation or insufflation or the active compounds may be formulated for topical administration.

For oral administration the pharmaceutical compositions may take the form of for example tablets or capsules prepared by conventional means with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as binding agents e.g. pregelatinized maize starch polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose fillers e.g. lactose microcrystalline cellulose or calcium phosphate lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate talc or silica disintegrants e.g. potato starch or sodium starch glycolate or wetting agents e.g. sodium lauryl sulphate . The tablets may be CoAted by methods well known in the art. Liquid preparations for oral administration may take the form of for example solutions syrups or suspensions or they may be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may be prepared by conventional means with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents e.g. sorbitol syrup methyl cellulose or hydrogenated edible fats emulsifying agents e.g. lecithin or acacia non aqueous vehicles e.g. almond oil oily esters or ethyl alcohol and preservatives e.g. methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoates or sorbic acid .

For buccal administration the composition may take the form of tablets or lozenges formulated in conventional manner.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the disclosure are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. The pressurized container or nebulizer may contain a solution or suspension of the active compound. Capsules and cartridges made for example from gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of a compound of the disclosure and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

The active compounds of the disclosure may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection including using conventional catheterization techniques or infusion. Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulating agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient may be in powder form for reconstitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

The active compounds of the disclosure may also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

Typically combinations of the Janus Kinase inhibitors and the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor are administered in a therapeutically effective amount in the pharmaceutical combination therapies and associated methods disclosed herein the amount of which is readily apparent to those of skill in the art to achieve the desired pharmacological and or physiological effect. In certain embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof sometimes referred to herein as the active compounds is administered in a dose of 0.1 to 1000 mg of the active ingredient per unit dose which could be administered for example 1 to 4 times per day. The dosage level can vary either between one or more dosing regimens or within the same dosing regimen. In certain embodiments where the Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered orally the dose for the active compounds can be in a range from 1 to 50 mg BID i.e. twice a day or from 5 to 20 mg QD i.e. daily and preferably 1 mg BID 2 mg BID 3 mg BID 4 mg BID 5 mg BID 6 mg BID 7 mg BID 8 mg BID 9 mg BID 10 mg BID 11 mg BID 12 mg BID 13 mg BID 14 mg BID 15 mg BID 20 mg BID 25 mg BID or 30 mg BID and preferably 0.25 mg BID 0.5 mg BID 1 mg BID 5 mg BID 10 mg BID 20 mg BID and more preferably 1 mg BID 3 mg BID 5 mg BID 15 mg BID 20 mg QD.

In certain embodiments the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor is administered in a dose of 1 mg to 5 g i.e. 5000 mg e.g. 5 mg 10 mg 25 mg 50 mg 100 mg 250 mg 500 mg 750 mg 1000 mg 1250 mg 1500 mg 1750 mg 2000 mg or combinations thereof. For each of the dosage amounts provided for the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor can be dosed twice a day daily weekly etc. as would be apparent to those of skill in the art e.g. a prescribed amount. Of course other suitable dosage levels for the compounds of the disclosure and the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors administered in a combination therapy will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art given the benefit of the present disclosure.

In another embodiments the Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof are administered simultaneously sequentially or separately.

In some embodiments the ratio of Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is about 2 1 to about 1 40 w w.

In other embodiments the dosage form is selected from the group consisting of a solution a suspension a tablet a pill a sachet a capsule multiparticulates and a powder.

Aerosol formulations in the average adult human are preferably arranged so that each metered dose or puff of aerosol contains 20 g to 1000 g of the compound of the disclosure. The overall daily dose with an aerosol will be within the range 0.1 mg to 1000 mg. Administration may be several times daily for example 2 3 4 or 8 times giving for example 1 2 or 3 doses each time.

The ability of the compounds of formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts to inhibit Janus Kinase 3 and consequently demonstrate their effectiveness for treating disorders or conditions characterized by Janus Kinase 3 is shown by the following in vitro assay tests.

The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The present invention also provides a method of treating a disease in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a pharmaceutical composition.

In other embodiments the disease is selected from the group consisting of atherosclerosis myocardial infarction hypocholesterolemia hyperlipidemia ischemic heart disease congestive heart failure acute coronary syndrome plaque instability coronary artery disease cerebrovascular disease peripheral vascular disease and cardiac risk management.

The present invention further provides a method of inhibiting cholesterol biosynthesis in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a pharmaceutical composition.

The present invention also provides a method of lowering blood cholesterol level in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a Janus Kinase inhibitor and a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a pharmaceutical composition.

The present invention further provides a kit for achieving a therapeutic effect in a mammal comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a Janus Kinase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a therapeutically effective amount of a HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a container.

In certain embodiments the efficacy of the pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB Janus Kinase inhibitor and atorvastatin HMG CoA reductase inhibitor or TOFACITINIB Janus Kinase inhibitor and placebo was evaluated.

At the enrollment visit patients had a mean LDL C of 111.99 mg dL and 114.68 mg dL in the atorvastatin TOFACITINIB and the placebo TOFACITINIB treatment groups respectively. After 6 weeks treatment with TOFACITINIB the baseline LDL C mean increased to 135.83 mg dL and 138.26 mg dL in the atorvastatin TOFACITINIB and the placebo TOFACITINIB treatment groups respectively. At week 12 6 weeks following randomization the LDL C mean had decreased to 84.03 mg dL in the atorvastatin treated group compared to an increase in the mean LDL C to 142.61 mg dL in the placebo group.

The percent reduction from baseline in LDL C level is significantly greater for patients who received atorvastatin compared with placebo at Week 12 primary endpoint adjusted mean reduction is 35.3 in atorvastatin group compared with 5.8 increase in placebo group is shown in Table 1.

The trend of LDL C level in each treatment group is presented in which shows an increase in median LDL C level after Enrollment Visit introduction of TOFACITINIB treatment in both treatment groups and then a decrease after Baseline Visit in the atorvastatin group to values below Enrollment Visit levels compared to a slightly increasing trend in the placebo group. Thus shows significant decrease in LDL level after baseline visit for patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB and atorvastatin.

HDL levels increase following the Enrollment Visit and continue a slight upward trend following Baseline visit in both the atorvastatin group and the placebo group through the end of the study. Thus shows significant increase in HDL level after baseline visit for patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB and atorvastatin.

Apolipoprotein A 1 increases following introduction of TOFACITINIB treatment and seems to slightly trend upward in both treatment groups after Baseline through the end of the study. shows increase in Apolipoprotein A 1 level after baseline visit for patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB and atorvastatin.

The trend of Apolipoprotein B level in each treatment group is presented in which shows an increase in median Apolipoprotein B level after Enrollment Visit introduction of TOFACITINIB treatment in both treatment groups and then a decrease after Baseline Visit in the atorvastatin group to values below Enrollment Visit levels compared to a slightly increasing trend in the placebo group. shows decrease in Apolipoprotein B level after baseline visit for patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB and atorvastatin.

Triglycerides increase following introduction of TOFACITINIB treatment and decreases after Baseline Visit in the atorvastatin group while increases continue in the placebo group. Thus shows significant decrease in triglycerides level after baseline visit for patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB and atorvastatin.

The trend of total cholesterol level in each treatment group is presented in which shows an increase in median total cholesterol level after Enrollment Visit introduction of TOFACITINIB treatment in both treatment groups and then a decrease after Baseline Visit in the atorvastatin group to values below Enrollment Visit levels compared to a slightly increasing trend in the placebo group. Thus shows significant decrease in total cholesterol level after baseline visit for patients who received pharmaceutical combination therapy of TOFACITINIB and atorvastatin.

Table 2 presents the ACR20 American College of Rheumatology 20 improvement in response rate response rates relative to Enrollment Visit i.e. pre TOFACITINIB treatment . At Baseline Visit after 6 week treatment of TOFACITINIB two treatment groups have comparable high response rates 76.0 versus 76.6 . The response rates stay high at Week 12 after 6 week treatment of atorvastatin or placebo added on.

Variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and the essential characteristics of the present teachings. Accordingly the scope of the present teachings is to be defined not by the preceding illustrative description but instead by the following claims and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

Each of the printed publications including but not limited to patents patent applications books technical papers trade publications and journal articles described or referenced in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

