---

title: Dynamically reconfigurable distributed interactive voice response system
abstract: The present invention relates to managing connections between one or more data network interfaces and one or more phone interfaces. In one embodiment, a manager process, running on a computer system receives one or more telephone calls from one or more users over one of the phone interfaces and then accesses one or more profiles associated with each of the users. These profiles have one or more service identifiers and one or more interactive response agent (IRA) identifiers associated with the respective user. A menu of the service identifiers is presented to the user. The manager process looks up an agent address of one of the IRAs that is associated with the service identifier selected by the user from the menu and establishes a session with the associated IRA. A two-way communication with the associated IRA occurs during the session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08565390&OS=08565390&RS=08565390
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08565390
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120614
---
This application is a continuation of co pending application Ser. No. 12 102 969 filed Apr. 15 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 917 550 filed Aug. 12 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 379 539 issued May 27 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 239 329 filed Jan. 28 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 804 333 issued Oct. 12 2004.

The present invention generally relates to telephone based information access systems and more particularly to a distributed architecture for telephone users to access information and service from their Internet service providers.

Many businesses use interactive voice response TVR systems to automatically respond to customer inquiries. For example a customer can make a phone call to the IVR system of a business and establish a connection via a public switched telephone network or a cellular phone network. Once the connection is made the customer can interact with the IVR system to access desired information such as account balance or to conduct transactions such as transfer between accounts. The caller typically responds to the voice menus of the IVR system by pressing the keypad on his telephone set. Very often such phone calls are made using the toll free number associated with the business and the cost of the call is paid by the business.

There exist other TVR systems which allow the employees of a corporation to access their e mail by making a phone call to the corporation s TVR system which interfaces with the e mail server. For example Phonesoft Inc. has a IVR product that interfaces with Lotus e mail servers. The corporation has to pay the cost of the calls which may be long distance when their employees travel.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 537 461 Information Services Platform has recognized that the cost of such phone calls can be greatly reduced by connecting such a call to an information services platform associated with the point the call enters the telephone network so that an inquiry entered by the calling party may be received by a front end of the platform which then passes the inquiry to a back end of the platform for presentation to a called source of information. This patent is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The advantage is that the v connection to a conventional IVR system via a telephone network is replaced by an inexpensive data network. But the front end of the information services platform in this patent is not generic. This means that some service specific programs or scripts have to be pre installed at the front end.

 Phone Browser from Bell Labs is another system which has the concept of a separate front end and back end. The phone browser together with the front end acts as a Web browser but with no visual information presented to the caller. However Web servers are the only information source that the caller can access by the phone browser system.

The IVR platform interfaces with the PSTN via a telephony interface which includes DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency detection call answering disconnecting digital to analog and analog to digital converters etc. The IVR platform includes audio functions such as text to speech converters audio players audio recorders etc. The information e.g. text and audio obtained from the Web server is first processed by the phone browser e.g. appending a voice menu at the end of the page. The processed information is then sent to the call handling routine via V protocol. The received information at the call handling routine is presented to the caller after the necessary conversion is done at the IVR platform . The caller now listens to the transformed Web page in speech and chooses the next URL by pressing the corresponding touch tone button on the phone according to the voice menu presented to the caller by the call handing routine . The call handling routine converts the received DTMF tone into a digital format e.g. ASCII text and sends it to the phone browser for specifying the next Web page. The process repeats till the caller hangs up the phone. If the caller should want to access another service Web site hosting by another Web server the caller has to disconnect the call and dial the phone number corresponding to the URL that he she wants to reach. The aforementioned phone browser system is a service oriented distributed IVR system i.e. one service per phone number.

Most systems in the prior art have many restrictions and limitations. First the conventional IVR systems are in general expensive and the buyers have to maintain the systems in order to make sure that the capacity scales up as traffic increases. In addition the cost of long distance phone calls will accumulate and may become a major expense for the owners of the IVR systems.

Second the information service platform described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 537 461 is primarily a solution for telephone carriers. The providers of the information source need to work with their carrier to pre install service specific programs or scripts at the front ends. Furthermore every time the service is changed the information service provider has to rely on its carrier to upgrade the front end program. This requirement limits the usage of the information services platform.

Third the phone browser approach is limited to Web content. There exist many other types of information sources such as non Internet based e mil and database servers which cannot be accessed by a phone browser.

Fourth all the aforementioned IVR architectures are service oriented which means that each phone number is associated with a particular service offered by a service provider. Separate phone calls have to be made if the caller wants to access multiple services by different service providers.

An object of this invention is an improved system and method that allows users to use telephones without computers and modems to call their ISPs Internet service providers and access the information and service they need from one or more digital networks.

An object of this invention is an improved system and method that frees the customers of an ISP from the burden of high IVR cost and scalability by letting the ISP operate the telephony speech functions at the point of presence POP i.e. the place users call in.

An object of this invention is to provide a system and method for a caller to access multiple application servers i.e. multiple services by just one phone call.

The present invention is a computer system and method that manages connections between one or more data network interfaces and one or more phone interfaces. A manager process running on a computer system having both data and phone network interfaces receives one or more telephone calls from one or more users over one of the phone interfaces and than accesses one or more profiles associated with each of the users. These profiles have one or more service identifiers and one or more interactive response agent IRA identifiers associated with the respective user. A menu of the service identifiers is presented to the user. The system then looks up an agent address of one of the IRAs that is associated with the service identifier selected by the user from the menu and establishes a session with the associated IRA. Having done this a two way communication with the associated IR occurs during the session. In this communication the IRA is capable of passing information to the system from one or more application servers to which the IRA is connected over one or more data networks.

Because of the intensive competition in the market every Internet service provider ISP is looking for opportunities to enhance its service offerings to stay competitive. This invention discloses a service architecture that allows an ISP to deploy enhanced information services for its customers without incurring high deployment cost.

In this invention the functions of an IVR system are split into two parts i.e. a front end and a back end. The front end is populated at the POPS of an ISP and the back end is located at anywhere in the Internet. Particularly the invention lets an ISP provide the functions of telephony e.g. call handling and touch tone detection and audio e.g. playing audio files voice recording and text to speech conversion at every POP and puts the software components which interact with users in the Internet.

A software component called an interactive response agent IRA located in the Internet interacts with users. An IRA has two roles one is to interact with users who are using touch tone phones and the other is to interface with application servers such as e mail servers voicemail servers Web servers database servers etc. on user s behalf. If the information retrieved by an IRA is in text format it will be sent to the POP where the user called in converted into synthesized speech by text to speech converters and played back to users over telephone lines. If the retrieved information is an audio file as in a phonemail system the information will be sent to the POP converted into a form for playing back over a phone line.

The present invention not only telephone enables application servers it also provides a two fold advantage to an ISP s corporate customers. On one hand the corporate customers of an ISP can easily enable their end users to access corporate information without buying expensive IVR units. On the other hand corporations can have full control of IRAs which retrieve corporate information on behalf of end users. What a corporate customer needs is an IRA that interfaces with the ISP s POP. In general different application servers are accessed by different protocols e.g. HTTP for Web servers. The application dependent IRA can be provided by an ISP purchased from third party vendors or developed by corporate I S staff. For popular information servers such as Lotus Notes e mail servers Microsoft Exchange servers and Web servers third party vendors can help to develop the corresponding IRA components. For corporate proprietary database applications the corporate has to develop its own IRA which interfaces with ISP s POP. In order to make the components developed by various vendors interoperable a set of API application programming interface between POPs and IRAs can be standardized.

One major component in the present invention is the users profile which contains among other things authentication passwords and billing information a table describing the service item that the user has subscribed to and the network addresses of the interactive response agents providing those services for each subscriber of the ISP. When a subscriber of the ISP called a local POP the phone call will be answered by a front end FE manager . After the caller is authenticated the caller will be able to specify the desired service item and the FE manager will establish a session and communicate with the corresponding IRA through connection functions over the Internet . In the present invention each subscriber is able to maintain his her profile and add delete a pair of a service item and the corresponding network address of the IRA handling that service. Moreover when the caller is done with a service the session between the FE manager and the IRA manager will be terminated and the caller will have an opportunity to select another service item in his her profile. Hence the front end at a POP is not statically tied with a particular IRA during a phone call i.e. a dynamically reconfigurable capability. The detailed algorithms of a FE manager and an IRA manager to achieve this capability are described in and A B.

The connection functions are a set of API for the FE manager to establish a session and have a two way communication with IRA managers e.g. IRA manager and . The connection functions include API calls to send a session request send DTMF a digit send an audio file receive a text message receive an audio file and terminate a session.

The FE manager is further interfaced with the Internet to which IRA IRA application server and application server are connected. The IRA and are agents working between the FE manager and back end application servers such as e mail servers financial database servers Web servers etc. An IRA gives the caller the feeling of interacting with an IVR system. An IRA can be specialized in interfacing with a specific type of servers. An IRA can also implement multiple server interfaces for communicating with different types of application servers. For example application server can be a Lotus Notes server IRA has the API to communicate with it. Application can be a computer running Web server POP3 email server and news server IRA has the set of APIs to communicate with multiple application servers. In a preferred embodiment this IRA has a security profile as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 239 322 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 484 263 issued Nov. 19 2002 to Liu entitled Security Profile for Web Browser filed Jan. 28 1999 and is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In IRA contains an IRA manager connection functions and server interface for interfacing with server . The behavior of the IRA manager is controlled by a state machine to be detailed in . The FE manager interacts with the IRA manager by a set of API as defined in connection functions and over the Internet . The connection functions are a set of API calls for the IRA manager to establish a session and have a two way communication with FE manager . The connection functions include API calls to accept a session request receive a DTMF digit receive an audio file send a text message send an audio file and send end of service request.

The present invention discloses a service architecture for ISPs to offer phone enabled information services such as e mail stock quotes weather information travel information personalized traffic information personalized news services financial services sports information professional services ticket information on line shopping etc. These many types of services can be provided by different IRAs supported by different vendors as long as users put the network addresses of the IRAs they have access to into their user profiles. Simply by a local phone call to his local ISP the dynamically reconfigurable capability of the distributed IVR systems disclosed by this invention will allow a caller to visit multiple service providers IRAs in the same phone call. Callers do not have to memorize multiple phone numbers one for each service provider.

