---

title: System and method to facilitate analysis of brain injuries and disorders
abstract: In an example embodiment, this disclosure provides a computer system that includes a processor configured to compute, based on test performance data of a user, at least one performance variable characterizing balance and postural stability, and at least one performance variable characterizing vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). For each performance variable, processor can compute a respective score based on the respective performance variable and based on a set of performance metrics. The at least one computed score can be output via an output device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09610029&OS=09610029&RS=09610029
owner: The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
number: 09610029
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 542 548 filed Oct. 3 2011 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MOTOR AND COGNITIVE ANALYSIS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application also relates to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 262 662 filed Nov. 19 2009 and PCT US2010 057453 filed Nov. 19 2010 the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Inventions described herein relate generally to a system and method to facilitate analysis of brain injuries and disorders.

There are various neuromotor and neurocognitive disorders including Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s Disease PD and progressive supranuclear palsy to name a few. Neuromotor and neurocognitive disorders affect motor function cognitive function or both. Traumatic brain injuries are another category of condition that can affect motor function and cognitive function. These brain injuries can include mild traumatic brain injuries also common referred to as concussions which can be graded on various scales.

In order to properly treat many neuromotor and neurocognitive disorders as well as brain injuries it is desirable to better understand or classify an individual s condition. Accordingly a variety of tests have been developed for various types of diseases and injuries. For example one scale for assessing a patient s Parkinson s disease is the Unified Parkinson s Disease Rating Schedule UPDRS . Various other tests exist that are utilized by a clinician to help the clinician categorize a patient s disorder.

To more efficiently administer and objectively analyze results of such tests computerized systems for administering some of such tests have been proposed. U.S. Pat. No. 6 435 878 the 878 patent proposes a system where a user s reaction time to a stimulus can be measured. However the proposed system does not measure the quality of the user s interaction with the system. The system of the 878 patent also dynamically modifies a presentation time or quantity of a stimulus for the stimulus based on the user s performance but does not qualitatively modify test difficulty based on user performance.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 294 107 the 107 patent similarly refers to a testing system with which user reaction time can be measured. However as with the 878 patent the system does not measure the quality of the user s interaction with the system. The system of the 107 patent also determines based on user performance which tests to administer and whether to terminate a test but does not qualitatively modify a particular test s difficulty based on user performance.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 517 480 the 480 patent refers to a testing system in which a maze trace is detected and an overall time for completion of the test is detected but the system does not provide for any qualitative measurement of the user s performance of the test or for modifying testing difficulty in view of user performance.

Moreover none of the 878 107 and 480 patents provide a system or method for time based testing of a degree of cognitive ability nor do they provide a system or method that presents data regarding a correlation of test results to patient information such as medications the patient is taking and or stimulation parameters used for Deep Brain Stimulation DBS of the patient.

This invention relates to a system and method to facilitate analysis of brain injuries and disorders.

According to an example embodiment a computer system can include a processor configured to compute based on test performance data of a user at least one performance variable characterizing balance and postural stability and at least one performance variable characterizing vestibulo ocular reflex VOR . For each performance variable processor can compute a respective score based on the respective performance variable and based on a set of performance metrics. The at least one computed score can be output via an output device.

In another example embodiment a computer implemented method can include computing by a computer processor and based on test performance data of a user at least one of a performance variable characterizing balance and postural stability and a performance variable characterizing vestibulo ocular reflex VOR . For each of the at least one performance variable a respective score can be computed by the processor and based on the respective performance variable and based on a set of performance metrics. The processor can output via an output device the at least one computed score.

In still another example a non transitive computer readable medium can store instructions executable by a processor the instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method to assess an extent of a traumatic brain injury of a user. The method corresponding to the instructions can include computing based on test performance data of the user at least one of a performance variable characterizing balance and postural stability a performance variable characterizing cognitive functioning a performance variable characterizing neuromotor functioning and a performance variable characterizing vestibulo ocular reflex VOR . For each of the at least one performance variable a respective score can be calculated based on the respective performance variable and based on a set of performance metrics. The at least one computed score can be output via an output device to facilitate diagnosing the traumatic brain injury of the user.

In some examples the measurements may relate to functions affected by traumatic brain injuries such as mild traumatic brain injuries e.g. usually referred to as concussions . These types of traumatic brain injuries can be graded on various scales to indicate the severity. For the example of analyzing concussion type injuries or other diseases such as Parkinson s disease balance and postural stability and or vestibular functions may be tested in addition to neuromotor and cognitive functions. This invention also relates to systems and methods for displaying information derived from the underlying measurements. Such analysis and or resulting display can help a physician or other health care provider diagnose the patient s condition.

In other examples this invention also relates to systems and methods for detecting intentional underperformance and anticipatory responses of a patient during testing. This invention also relates to systems and methods for determining postural stability.

Example embodiments of the invention relate to a system and method that display information derived from measurements of vestibular balance and postural stability function. In some examples the information may be displayed as a spider graph having a plurality of vertices each vertex corresponding to a score or index value. Each score index value may be derived from a measurement of postural stability and vestibulo ocular reflex VOR integrity.

Example embodiments of the invention relate to a system and method of determining whether a patient is intentionally underperforming or anticipating a correct response during testing.

Example embodiments of the invention relate to a system and method of determining postural stability using a combination of gyroscope and accelerometer measurements.

To facilitate use and access one or more tests can be implemented as an Internet based application that can be accessed by an authorized user at a remote location via a predetermined resource locator e.g. a URL . Additionally by implementing the system as a web based application test data can be maintained anonymously for a plurality of patients at a central server to facilitate further analysis and research. For example results of the testing for a plurality of users further can be aggregated to generate a new index for classifying movement disorders or determining the severity of a movement disorder which may or may not be correlated with existing standards such as the commonly used Unified Parkinson s Disease Rating Scale UPDRS .

In an example method the display device can be part of a patient terminal e.g. a handheld device the measurement data is recorded at a server coupled to the patient terminal via a network and the test result information is output at a clinician terminal coupled to the server via the network. In some examples the network includes the Internet.

The various methods and system components disclosed herein may be practiced and provided each alone or in various combinations.

An example embodiment of the invention is directed to one or more processors which may be implemented using any conventional processing circuit and device or combination thereof e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU of a Personal Computer PC or other workstation processor to execute code provided e.g. on a hardware computer readable medium including any conventional memory device to perform any of the methods described herein alone or in combination. The one or more processors may be embodied in a server or user terminal s or combination thereof. The user terminal may be embodied for example as a desktop laptop hand held device Personal Digital Assistant PDA television set top Internet appliance mobile telephone smart phone etc. or as a combination of one or more thereof. The memory device may include any conventional permanent and or temporary memory circuits or combination thereof a non exhaustive list of which includes Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Compact Disks CD Digital Versatile Disk DVD and magnetic tape.

An example embodiment of the invention is directed to a hardware computer readable medium e.g. as described above having stored thereon instructions executable by a processor to perform the methods described herein and or for storing output data produced via execution of the methods described herein.

An example embodiment of the invention is directed to a method e.g. of a hardware component or machine of transmitting instructions executable by a processor to perform the methods described herein.

The test engine for example can include a patient information module . The patient information module can be programmed to acquire patient information that can be provided to an analysis engine in the form of patient data . The patient information can include a series of templates or forms e.g. an XML or other document that can be completed by a user using an appropriate user input device such as a keyboard and or mouse and or stylus. Examples of patient information include log in information to authenticate the user with the system such as a log in ID and password. The patient information can also include information about a patient s current health condition as well as information about the environment in which the patient is taking the test. Additional information can be acquired relating to medication that the patient is currently taking including names of medication dosage number of times per day and the time since the last dosage. Those skilled in the art will appreciate various types of forms and constructs that can be utilized to acquire and send the patient data to the analysis engine .

The test engine also includes a calibration module that is programmed to calibrate the system such as for remote operation in which specifics of the users test equipment may be unknown. The calibration component for example can be utilized to ascertain a relative two dimensional size of a display or monitor on which the test is being implemented. For example a graded scale can be graphically rendered onto a display such as a series of spaced apart lines that are provided with a corresponding normalized scale known to the programmer. An article can be provided to the user of a known size e.g. an 8 11 sheet of paper a dollar bill or credit card which can be positioned adjacent to the scale by the user to ascertain dimensions e.g. in both the x and y directions of the user s display according to size of the image being displayed to the user via the graphical user interface . A user can in turn enter the corresponding score into the system as calibration data that is utilized by the analysis engine . Thus by knowing the relative display size for the user s computing device appropriate geometry and position information can be obtained from the subsequent battery of tests to be performed. The analysis engine can employ the calibration data to scale the corresponding testing data consistent with the user s particular test environment e.g. display screen on which the user is taking the test. Specifically the data presented to the user for the test and or the test results may be scaled according to the calibration data. For example accuracy i.e. size of displayed targets and or distances between displayed targets may be modified according to Fitts law in accordance with the user s test environment.

In an alternative example embodiment of the invention the calibration may be performed by transmitting data for presentation of three or four targets in the user s screen one target at each corner of the screen. The system may record a number of pixels or defined X Y positions between the targets as a representation of vertical and horizontal distances between the targets which distances may be used as calibration data for scaling test data.

Alternatively or additionally certain patient devices can be pre configured having known configurations such that calibration may be omitted. For example devices having a predetermined configuration may be registered with the system. For instance such preregistered devices or terminals can reside at doctors offices at hospitals or other institutions.

In an alternative example embodiment differences in the display screens may be ignored and the test data presented to the user and the test result may be uniform across the various test platforms.

The test engine also includes a plurality of test applications e.g. functions or methods and indicated as TEST application through TEST N application where N is a positive integer denoting any number of tests. Each test application can be programmed in a manner to test motor and or cognitive functions and or a combination of motor and cognitive functions of a user.

For example the test can be similar to known tests such as a Seven s test described in detail below with respect to a trail making test such as the trail making test parts A and B a clock drawing test and a reaction time and motor task that can be utilized to test appropriate motor and or neurocognitive functions of the user. Other tests with which the test engine maybe programmed may include a center out test which assesses information processing speed e.g. deciding to which target to move and motor performance e.g. quality of movement to a given target an Archimedes spiral test to assess tremor in Parkinson s patients where as the patient progresses outward tremor intends to increase Benton s judgment of line orientation test which measures visuospatial judgment in brain injured patients and tests whose complete renderings are dynamically provided as the user takes the tests. For example a cyclical tracking test may be provided for which a pattern for the user to trace is provided that includes points rendered after the user begins to trace the pattern. For example a sine wave circle or other pattern which changes or moves as the user traces the pattern may be displayed.

Each test application to can be provided to a user computer in an interactive manner that provides interactive graphical objects in the GUI within a hardware display device such as a computer or tablet screen. Such interactivity can be implemented through the use of an action script or other functions or methods that can be provided to the user some of which can vary according to the platform in which the test engine is being implemented for example based on a calibration as described above.

In an example embodiment the test engine can be implemented using the Flash platform such as can be programmed using ADOBE FLEX software available from Adobe Systems Incorporated. The Flash platform has advantages in that for example it has an extremely high market penetration and no additional software components are required to be installed on the user s machine such as when the test engine is accessed remotely such as via a web browser of the user s machine. Advantageously the FLEX applications for each of the components of the applications or methods and may provide a stateful client where changes can occur on the display without requiring to load a new web page. Additionally it has been determined that such an implementation allows sufficient resolution of geometry and position data to be acquired such that corresponding test results can be analyzed to provide meaningful information about motor cognitive and cognitive motor function of the user.

Data is acquired for each test application to as corresponding respective test data to which can be provided to and or utilized by the analysis engine . Thus by performing a plurality of multi part tests through each test can provide corresponding test data to that can be analyzed by the analysis engine to provide meaningful information and results based on the test data to .

The test data can include an indication of which test of a plurality of different tests is being performed along with an indication of the position of graphical objects e.g. targets for the test as well as an indication of the position for a cursor or other pointing device that is utilized for performing the test. For example the test application to can employ a get cursor pos or other Application Programming Interface API to monitor and obtain cursor position information that is stored along with temporal information such as the times corresponding to the obtained cursor positions as the test data to . The sampling of such data may be at a rate of for example 30 Hz.

As an example a test application can display on the display a GUI having one or more targets each as a graphical object having a shape e.g. a circle oval triangle or rectangle that encompasses or bounds a set of coordinates on the user s display device. A user can position on the display a cursor or other graphical object having its own object position in two dimensional space e.g. having X and Y coordinates for example using a pointing device such as a mouse or stylus for touch screen or without a pointing device such as via a finger on a touch screen. The test application can provide instructions requesting the user to position the cursor object or draw lines between two or more particular targets. The movement of the cursor on the screen relative to the known position of each of the targets corresponding to the test data to can be analyzed by the analysis engine .

The analysis engine may include for example a motor calculator and or a cognitive calculator . The calculators and or may be for example software modules stored on a computer readable hardware device which may be executed to perform various calculations based on the same or different input parameters.

In an example embodiment the motor calculator is programmed to determine a number of one or more kinematic variables based on the test data to . For example the motor calculator can be programmed to determine a position of the cursor or pointer device a velocity an acceleration a speed and or a tangential acceleration for each sample of test data acquired during a test interval. For example the tangential acceleration may be used by the analysis engine as an indication of degree of curvature in user movements.

In an example embodiment the motor calculator can also determine derivative information of the above referenced variables such as corresponding to a measure of how close to the user s line between a pair of targets is fitted to an ideal straight line between the pair of targets. For example for every data point residing on the ideal straight line between sequential targets a distance to a corresponding point on the line drawn by the user can be determined. The sum of the determined distances between the respective points can be determined and divided by the number of points for which the distances were determined to provide an average associated with the ideal line relative to that drawn by a user. This can be repeated for a line drawn by a user between respective targets to provide an objective indication of the accuracy of lines drawn.

In an example embodiment the motor calculator may further calculate a means square error by determining an average of the error squared for the difference between the ideal and actual lines. In an example embodiment the motor calculator may further calculate the root mean squared error or standard deviation of the difference between the ideal and actual lines for example by calculating the square root of the means square error. Thus the motor calculator can determine various values representative of the average distance that the user s data points on the user s line deviate from the idea line.

In an example embodiment average means square error root means square error and or standard deviation information may be similarly calculated for deviation over the course of a test per each recorded position each separate X position and Y position and or on a per line basis between speed velocity acceleration tangential acceleration etc. between actual recorded values and ideal values for those parameters.

Other information includes whether the user has drawn crossing lines as described below with respect to .

The above is not intended as an exhaustive list of calculations which the motor calculator may perform and other example embodiments provide for calculation of additional or alternative variables and parameters based on the acquired test data to that is sampled over time. The results of the calculations determined by the motor calculator can be stored as part of analysis data . The analysis data can also include calibration data and patient data which can be utilized to improve the accuracy of the calculations by the motor calculator and the cognitive calculator . Alternatively calibration data may be used as described above to alter the administered test so that results of tests administered at different platforms are comparable without requiring further consideration of differences between the platforms e.g. as reflected by the calibration data .

In an example embodiment of the invention the cognitive calculator is programmed to compute variables or parameters relevant to assessing cognitive function of a patient user. For example the cognitive calculator can compute a dwell time based on the acquired test data and . A dwell time can correspond to a time period during which a cursor or other graphical object is within a given predefined bounded area such as can be defined as an X and Y position or range that encompasses a displayed graphical object or target. The computed dwell time may be used to assess a patient s set switching ability to refocus attention from one task to another for example where dwell time reflects a dwell period in a first target after initial movement to the first target before moving to the next target. Dwell time may be an indicator of cognitive freezing in neurocognitive or other patient groups. The cognitive calculator can also calculate the reaction time such as corresponding to a time interval between a presentation of a stimulus and the initiation of movement of a pointing device by a user during a reaction test application which can be further utilized by the cognitive calculator to generate a score of the patient s information processing capacity. In an example embodiment of the invention the cognitive calculator may further use data output by the motor calculator e.g. representative of motor function quality to calculate data representative of cognitive ability.

For example an initial speed or acceleration when leaving a given target to move to a following target may be used as a cognitive measurement in certain instances. For example if the initial phase of movement is relatively rapid with high velocity and acceleration and the user moves to the correct target this information may be used to conclude that the user movement was made primarily under predictive or feedforward control i.e. the user was very sure of where to go . On the other hand if the speed or acceleration is relatively low or there are multiple starts and stops once the user leaves the target the information may be used to conclude that the patient is unsure of the target to which to move indicative of a deficiency in information processing speed especially where other components of the user movements are relatively normal or can be made relatively quickly. It should be understood and appreciated that certain types of calculations may not apply to different types of tests depending upon the main purpose of the test.

In an example embodiment of the invention the analysis engine can output results of calculations to provide corresponding analysis data . Thus the analysis data can include results data based upon the methods and calculations performed by the motor calculator and or the cognitive calculator based on test data to acquired for each of the respective test applications.

In an example embodiment of the invention the analysis engine may include an index calculator that is programmed to compute one or more indices based upon the output results determined by the motor calculator and or cognitive calculator for a patient. For example the index calculator can aggregate the analysis data determined for a given set of test data acquired for a given patient to determine an index or score having a value indicative of motor function for the given patient based on the aggregate set of test data. Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can compute an index or score having a value indicative of cognitive function for a patient based upon the set of test data. Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can compute an index or score having a value indicative of cognitive motor function for a patient based upon the set of test data. The index calculator can be normalized according to a known scale or index such as the UPDRS. Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can calculate a new scale that provides an indication of motor and or neurocognitive functions for the patient. The resulting output for the index calculation can be provided and stored as part of the analysis data for subsequent analysis e.g. by a clinician who may access the stored analysis data .

In an example embodiment of the invention the system may modify factors used for the index calculation based on the corpus of data for a plurality of patients. For example if a large number of users who are considered generally healthy perform poorly on a certain test the test results for that test may be modified by a low weighting factor.

In an example embodiment of the invention as a user takes one or more tests the system may generate analysis data which indicates that the test s presented to the user are too difficult or too easy for the user. For example where calculated scores are extremely low the scores may indicate that the user is below a certain threshold level of ability but do not finely indicate the user s level of ability below that certain threshold. Similarly where calculated scores are extremely high the scores may indicate that the user s level of ability is above a certain threshold level of ability but do not finely indicate the user s level of ability above that certain threshold.

Accordingly in an example embodiment of the invention the test engine further includes a module for accessing stored analysis data concerning a current patient and selecting one of the TEST applications N to next output to the user based on past performance indicated by the accessed analysis data. For example where the test engine determines from the analysis data that the user s performance is below a predetermined threshold the test engine may select a next test that is ranked as being at a particular low difficulty level. For example difficulty may be ranked according to target accuracy i.e. the size of the displayed targets e.g. relative to calibrated screen size and or distance between the displayed targets e.g. relative to calibrated screen size . For example a test having targets at a first distance from each other and of a first size may be ranked as easier than another test of the same type having targets that are at a second distance from each other longer than the first distance and or that are of a second size smaller than the first size. In an example embodiment the change in test difficulty may be implemented by re administering the same type of test as a previously administered test with changes to the target accuracy and distances and thus changes in the difficulty level of the re administered test.

In an alternative example embodiment the change in test difficulty may be implemented by re administering the same test or same type of test as a previously administered test but with changes to the moving status of at least one target. For example an increase in difficulty may involve changing from a stationary target to a moving target or changing from a slow moving target to a faster target. Similarly a decrease in difficulty may involve changing from a moving target to a stationary target or changing from a fast moving target to a slower target. Difficulty may be ranked according to moving status.

In an alternative example embodiment the change in test difficulty may be implemented by selecting a different type of test which test type is ranked at a different difficulty level than that of a previously administered test.

In an example embodiment of the invention during administration of a test the analysis engine may produce part of the analysis data associated with the test even before completion of the test. During the test the test engine may access the partial analysis data produced for the test prior to its completion and may modify the current test during its administration based on the partial analysis data . For example during the administration of the test the test engine may enlarge previously displayed targets of the test and or shorten the distance between the previously displayed targets and or change targets between moving and stationary states. Alternatively or additionally where the test dynamically displays targets during its administration the test engine may display new targets that are larger than those previously displayed or at distances that are shorter than the distances between pairs of previously displayed targets or having a different moving status compared to previously displayed targets.

In an example embodiment the system server may include a web server having a plurality of different functions and methods each of which can be accessed via a corresponding resource locator such as a uniform resource location URL . In an example the system server includes an access control function that provides a level of security such that only authorized users can access various other functions and methods of the system. The access control function can provide a log in user interface screen to each of the user devices and which can require a user ID and password for each user for authentication. Each user ID and password can be associated with a corresponding level of authorization to selectively provide access to one or more of the other functions and methods to be provided by the server system . While illustrates devices and as separate devices the operations of each may be performed on a single device but may be logically separated according to the log in information. In an example embodiment a single set of log in information may provide authorization for access to operations of more than one of the shown devices and .

For example the user device can be assigned a high or unlimited authorization level and utilized to provide one or more management user interfaces for accessing each of the functions and methods provided by the server system including accessing corresponding management functions and methods indicated schematically at . Thus the authorized user of the management user interface can access various management functions for the patient information browsing test data and the like. For example the user interface may be a clinician interface via which a clinician may access test results for tests taken by the clinician s patients or other related information. Examples of selected management user interface screens are shown in .

The user device can include a patient user interface that can provide a limited amount of access such as to the testing functions and methods . For example after logging in via the access control function a patient user interface can be used to access the test applications which can be graphically displayed in the patient GUI. The test applications can be provided as interactive web pages programmed with functions and methods for performing various tests and obtaining patient controlled movement information from the patient user.

The test methods that are provided to the patient user device via the patient user interface can be implemented using ADOBE FLEX or another similar software or platform having a high market penetration. By having a sufficiently high market penetration substantially no software needs to be installed or loaded onto an individual user s device. In response to interaction with the tests provided via the test methods test data to may be obtained by the system server for storage in a central data storage described in further detail below . Methods of the analysis engine may be performed locally at the patient user device or remotely at the system server .

Examples of associated graphical user interfaces associated with the testing functions and methods that can be presented to the user are shown and described herein with respect to .

Another user device can include a research user interface that provides access to relevant data e.g. excluding patient identifying information such as to facilitate research and analysis of the test data. For example a researcher or other authorized user can access a set of test data for a plurality of patients and in turn perform statistical methods or other mathematical operations on the set of data to ascertain relevant information such as correlations or likelihoods. A researcher might also utilize the analysis data to draw correlations between other information entered by the user e.g. patient data including an identification of medications dosage and the like relative to test results for each of a plurality of users. Such analysis can provide information that can be stored in the central data storage for subsequent usage and review by other authorized users. For example correlations can be drawn between medication and test results and changes in test results over time which correlations can be presented to a physician or other authorized user via the management user interface .

Alternatively or additionally certain patient devices can be preconfigured having a preset authorization status such that authorization would not be required. Such devices known to the system server can access the system server through the network or through a secure local area network or other suitable connection. For instance such preconfigured terminals can reside at doctors offices hospitals or other institutions.

In an example embodiment regardless of the configuration and distribution of patient user devices the test data is consolidated into a database or other central data storage that is associated with the central system server .

The central data storage can include raw test data and results data . While central storage is shown as a single storage device and or logical storage location in an example embodiment the raw test data may be stored separate from the results data e.g. for quicker response time to results data queries.

The raw test data and results data can be indexed by patient and by individual test as well as include patient specific information in an example embodiment excluding patient identifying information other than perhaps a patient unique identify number for purposes of separating the patient data from one patient from that of another patient. As described herein the test methods and the system server can be programmed to perform calculations on the raw test data acquired from a patient user interface via the testing application being implemented thereon.

Similarities between patients residing in a given cluster i.e. patients who share certain characteristics can be utilized to facilitate treatment and diagnosis of other patient s having similar conditions. For example a clinician may enter information e.g. patient information with respect to medication type and or dosage stimulation parameters e.g. of a DBS therapy symptoms conditions and or diagnoses via the management user interface which can be tagged or programmatically linked to the test data and results data of the patient such as to augment or provide metadata that can be further evaluated or considered to facilitate clustering of patients and understanding the respective conditions. In this way the test data for a more statistically significant population can be maintained for performing statistical analysis of test data which can be mined or otherwise evaluated statistically or otherwise e.g. via the researcher user interface to understand the correlations of symptoms and conditions. For example the system of the invention may be queryable for test result data by symptom s and or diagnosis in response to which the system may return results data concerning those patients matching the symptom s and or diagnosis and or averages and or other aggregate data of the results data .

In an example embodiment the system and method of the invention may provide for a clinician using the user device to input a proposed change e.g. with respect to medication type and or dosage and or stimulation parameters e.g. of a DBS therapy for a particular patient for whom patient information and test results have been obtained. In response to a query triggered via user selection of a command at the user device the system server may search the central data storage for patients associated with patient data and test data similar by a predetermined degree to those of the particular patient. The server may further search for those of the patients who have been subjected to a change similar to that proposed for the particular patient and for whom subsequent test results data have been obtained. The server may output for display at the user device an average of such subsequent test results thereby indicating to the clinician an expected change in the particular patient s condition with the proposed change measured in terms of expected change in test results.

Alternatively or additionally the system may output a medical condition category corresponding to the average of such subsequent test results. For example different intervals of test scores may be associated in memory with different categories of cognitive and or motor skills. The category under which the average of the subsequent test results falls may be output. Alternatively or additionally the expected direction of change to the medical condition classification may be output e.g. whether the cognitive and or motor skills are expected to improve or decline.

Thus the information obtained with respect to the test outcome shown in may include the coordinates of each of the targets as well as the coordinates or position of the cursor or other pointing element during the test as the cursor or other pointing element moves between the respective targets and forms a corresponding line or path .

In a partially completed center out test is depicted showing one of the targets having a contrast color relative to the other targets thereby designating the intended target for connection between the center target and the contrast target . The center out test can be performed such that different ones of the outer targets are selected in a predictable or random order one or more times.

Also depicted in is a diagrammatic view of a line used in an analysis that can be performed to characterize a degree of error e.g. by calculating an average error a mean square error or a root mean square error for each of a plurality of respective lines interconnecting sequential targets in the GUI . For example referring to targets 2 and 3 this can be performed for example by comparing the relative positions of points along an ideal straight line connected between targets 2 and 3 relative to a line segment drawn by a patient e.g. responsive to user controlled movement with a pointing device between the same respective targets. For instance the same number of equally spaced sample points can be populated along the length of each line segment and and a corresponding means square error can be computed for differences between the sets of sample points. For example the error values recorded for the sample points can be squared then summed together and then divided by the number of sample point pairs to provide the mean square error of the patient s line relative to the ideal line segment . Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate various types of estimators that can be utilized to compute a measure of how close the user s line is to the fitted ideal straight line between targets such as including the sample mean sample variance analysis of variance root mean square error standard deviation as well as linear regression techniques.

For example the resulting mean square error can further be utilized to compute a root means square error by taking the square root of the mean square error for each of the line segments between targets. The root means square error thus can provide essentially an average measure of distance of the user s data points on the line from corresponding points on the ideal line .

The trail making test Part B implemented by GUI may be used to assess both motor and cognitive information concurrently. For instance the instructions e.g. via the instruction GUI of specify that a user patient is to alternate between consecutive sequential letters and numbers by connecting respective targets with straight lines similar to what is shown in up to letter E beginning with the lowest number to the lowest letter to the second lowest number to the second highest letter etc. Thus shows an example outcome of a test in which a user has used a cursor having a position that can be tracked via the corresponding API. The system is configured to dynamically render a graphical depiction of a line onto the display GUI in response to movements of the cursor for example via a corresponding pointing element such as a mouse stylus or touch screen. Information associated with the position and times associated with the positions representing times for each of the movements can be recorded for subsequent analysis and evaluation as described herein.

By way of example the plot depicts X position versus Y position thereby showing the graphical object as a pair of interconnected line segments in a relative coordinate system based upon user input with a corresponding pointing device representing the path the user took between the targets of the seven s test. A representative plot shows the X data of plot plotted as a function of time and plot shows the Y data of plot plotted as a function of time.

A plot depicts the velocity information corresponding to the changes in the X Y positions plotted in plot over the time period in which the changes occurred i.e. during the test. Plot depicts velocity in the X direction with respect to time such as by taking the change between plotted positional points in plot over the plotted time in which such change occurred. Similarly plot depicts velocity of the Y direction with respect to time such as by taking the change between plotted positional points in plot over the plotted time in which such change occurred.

Similarly depicts a plot of velocity as a function of time cm sec that can be obtained from data acquired from a trail making test Part A implemented according to an aspect of the invention. An enlarged view of a portion of the waveform formed by the plot is depicted in at .

Referring again to another set of plots and depict the acceleration for each of the respective curves. For instance the plot displays a plot of acceleration versus time such as by taking the change in velocity values of plot over the corresponding time period in which such change occurred. The plot corresponds to the acceleration in the X direction versus time such as by taking the change in velocity values of plot over the corresponding time period in which such change occurred. Similarly the plot displays a plot of acceleration in the Y direction versus time such as by taking the change in velocity values of plot over the corresponding time period in which such change occurred.

The separate data concerning the movement in the X and Y directions respectively e.g. one or more of plots and may be used for example to characterize skill with respect to different directions.

As noted above the index calculator may calculate a score characterizing a test taker s performance on one or more administered tests. In an example embodiment of the invention the analysis engine may compare an overall curve shape of one or more of the types of graphs shown in e.g. which plot velocity and or acceleration to stored graph shapes. For example the shape of a plotted velocity or acceleration may be compared to a stored smooth bell shaped curve which may be considered to represent ideal motion by a healthy person when taking a test. The analysis engine may score the graphs of the test taker s motion such that the closer the shapes of the graphs to the stored graph shapes the higher the score. Similarly the analysis engine may determine the extent with respect to number and or degree to which the graph s include spikes where such spikes may be used as indications of low quality movement including significant and or many corrective and or tremor like motions.

The graph shape score s may be used for example by the index calculator to calculate the index which may be stored and output for example via the management user interface . It is noted that the index may be based on a number of factors. In an example embodiment different factors e.g. including the graph shape score may be multiplied by respective weighting values for example depending on ranked significance with respect to the overall index.

By way of further example is a reproduction of the GUI shown in in which selected portions of position and kinematic data have been identified by circles corresponding to relevant data that can be utilized by the cognitive calculator for computing dwell time. For example dwell time can correspond to an amount of time that a cursor or other user controlled graphical interface element resides within a bounded region such as a defined border of a target. Such bounded regions can be identified in the testing data according to position data e.g. X and Y coordinates for each of the targets populating a test GUI. The identified regions for which dwell time is calculated can be identified by identifying the X and Y positions corresponding to each time during which no change occurs in the X and Y position or a period in which there is no velocity e.g. from plot .

In an example embodiment of the invention the system and method may be used to administer and obtain data for certain tests used to measure only motor function e.g. related to finger tapping or tapping between two points. In an example embodiment of the invention the system and method may be used to administer and obtain data for certain tests used to measure only cognitive function e.g. the Mini Mental State Exam or Raven s Progressive Matrices tests.

For instance these protocols can be implemented and corresponding sets of test data evaluated to ascertain the effects on various conditions such as whether a DBS is on during the test or off as well as whether a patient is on their medication at a prescribed dose or not and the effect of such a condition on the performance of a test. Those skilled in the art will understand various other protocols and combinations of protocols that can be utilized for specifying patient control parameters associated with a given set of tests.

In view of the foregoing it will be appreciated that systems and methods have been described that can be implemented to provide a battery of cognitive and motor tests to remotely assess neurological disorders such as neurocognitive and neuromotor disorders such as for example PD Alzheimer s disease multiple sclerosis dementia amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Parkinsonian syndrome trauma induced brain injury stroke and multiple systems atrophy MSA . The systems and methods enable the testing to be performed remotely by a patient user and the collection of data in a central data repository such as to provide access to such information by a clinician and to facilitate further research.

In view of the foregoing structural and functional description those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the invention may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly these portions of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware such as shown and described with respect to the computer system of . Furthermore portions of the invention may be a computer program product including a hardware computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

Certain embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to block illustrations of methods systems and computer program products. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer executable instructions. These computer executable instructions may be provided to one or more processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus or a combination of devices and circuits to produce a machine such that the instructions when executed by the processor implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer executable instructions may also be stored in computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

In this regard illustrates one example of a computer system of the type that can be utilized to implement one or more embodiments of the systems and methods described herein for testing and analyzing motor and cognitive function of a patient. The computer system can be implemented on one or more general purpose networked computer systems embedded computer systems routers switches server devices client devices various intermediate devices nodes and or stand alone computer systems. Additionally the computer system or portions thereof can be implemented on various mobile or portable clients such as for example a laptop or notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA tablet computer smartphone see e.g. and the like.

The system may include a computer which may function for example as any of the user devices and and or the server . The computer may include a system bus may include any of several types of bus structures including for example a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of conventional bus architectures such as peripheral component interconnect PCI video electronics standards association VESA Microchannel industry standard architecture ISA and extended industry standard architecture EISA to name a few. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM .

The computer also may include for example a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive e.g. a floppy drive e.g. to read from or write to a removable disk and an optical disk drive e.g. a CD ROM drive e.g. for reading from or writing to a CD ROM disk or other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions etc. for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a CD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the invention such as including the functions of the analysis engine of and associated methods and functions disclosed with respect to .

A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system in the computer could be any suitable operating system or combinations of operating systems. The application programs other program modules and program data can cooperate to provide motor and cognitive testing on a patient computer device such as shown and described above. Additionally application programs other program modules and program data can be used for computation of an indication of motor cognitive or a combination of motor and cognitive functions of a patient based on the testing data such as shown and described above.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through one or more user input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone a joystick a game pad a scanner touch screen or the like. Other data e.g. acceleration data and gyroscope data can be provided by still other input devices such as sensors via corresponding interfaces. In some examples the accelerometer and the gyroscope can be co located on a device e.g. a smartphone PDA or tablet computer that is attached to or held by the user during administration of a test. The mouse or other pointing device can be utilized to perform a point and click action which includes the action of a computer user moving a cursor to a certain location on a screen point and then pressing a mouse button usually the left button click or other pointing device. Such point and click can be used with any number of input devices varying from mice touch pads keyboards joysticks scroll buttons and roller balls. The information associated with such point and click operations can be provided e.g. to a central server as part of the test data e.g. test data and for each of the respective tests such as described herein.

These and other input devices can be connected to a processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A display device such as a monitor is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . Other display devices such as speakers printers etc. may be provided instead of or in addition to the monitor. Thus the output representation for a virtual electrode is not limited to a graphical representation on a display.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The remote computer may be a workstation a server computer a router a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in may include a LAN and or a WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or is connected to a communications server on an associated LAN or has another circuitry arrangement for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device and or locally . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other arrangements for establishing a communications link between the computers and may be used.

Example embodiments of systems and methods relating to the assessment of concussion related functions will now be described. Concussion injuries are often difficult to evaluate because a comprehensive evaluation may require assessment of multiple functions. Thus concussion generally requires a multi factor approach involving a battery of tests including tests for balance postural stability.

Although described in connection with the assessment and treatment of traumatic brain injuries the example systems and methods may also be applied to other types of medical conditions that affect the same functions as concussions. For example the systems and methods may be used to assess and or treat patients with balance or vestibular impairments or Parkinson s disease not caused by a concussion injury.

Concussion related functions can broadly be defined as falling into one of four domains cognitive neuromotor balance and postural stability and vestibular. The cognitive domain may include functions such as memory recall information processing ability and set switching. The neuromotor domain may include reaction time and coordination. The balance and postural stability domain may include vision somatosensory function and vestibular system function. The vestibular domain also relates to the vestibular system but may specifically include VOR vision and dizziness. The domains may have overlapping functions e.g. vision is both a balance postural stability function and a vestibular function . These four domains can also be utilized for evaluating other brain disorders such as for example Parkinson s disease.

Each concussion related function may be evaluated using one or more tests the results of which can be stored in memory as the test data . Postural stability may be evaluated via accelerometer and or gyroscope data Balance Error Scoring System BESS testing and determining postural sway. Cognitive functioning may be evaluated using a Sport Concussion Assessment Tool SCAT test which is a standard questionnaire test for concussion injuries and testing working memory set switching or delayed recognition. Additionally or alternatively cognitive functioning can be evaluated using one or more of a sevens test a trail making test a clock drawing test a center out test an Archimedes spiral test a judgment of line orientation test or the like such as shown and disclosed herein in relation to . Thus the cognitive functioning can be evaluated according one or more of the cognitive testing and analysis approaches shown and described above.

VOR integrity may be evaluated by testing static visual acuity e.g. asking the patient to indicate the orientation of an image while the patient remains stationary relative to the image testing dynamic visual acuity e.g. asking the patient to indicate the orientation of an image while the patient is moving relative to the image and testing perception time. Neuromotor functioning may be evaluated by testing reaction time such as disclosed herein. Examples of reaction time tests can include simple reaction time SRT and choice reaction time CRT . For example SRT may involve displaying an image and instructing the patient to press a button as soon as the image is displayed. CRT may involve displaying a image in one of a plurality of display locations e.g. a left side or a right side of the display and instructing the user to select the correct display location e.g. touching the image when the image is displayed on a touch screen .

In an example embodiment of the invention the calculators are programmed to compute variables or parameters relevant to assessing the functions of their respective domains based on corresponding test data . For example the postural stability calculator may compute one or more BESS variables based on data from an administered BESS test and the neuromotor functioning calculator may compute one or more variables relating to SRT or CRT e.g. the duration between when a stimulus is displayed and when the patient inputs a valid response.

The index calculator may be programmed to compute one or more indices e.g. also referred to herein as scores based upon the output results determined by each of the calculators for a patient. For example the index calculator can aggregate the analysis data determined for a given set of test data acquired for a given patient to compute an index or score having a value indicative of postural stability for the given patient based on the aggregate set of test data e.g. gyroscope data may be aggregated with accelerometer data to determine postural sway . Alternatively or additionally the index calculator can compute indices or scores each value of which is indicative of one of a BESS test e.g. a BESS score a SCAT or SCAT2 test e.g. a SCAT score working memory set switching delayed recognition static visual acuity perception time dynamic visual acuity SRT or CRT. The resulting output for the index calculation can be provided and stored as part of analysis data for subsequent analysis e.g. by a clinician who may access the stored analysis data . The analysis data may be input to a visualization module for subsequent display as described below.

Concussion related functions may be assessed prior to injury in order to establish a set of baseline metrics e.g. scores or indices for each patient. A post injury assessment may be performed to generate a subsequent set of metrics that are then compared to the baseline metrics. In an example embodiment the visualization module may be configured to output instructions for displaying the baseline metrics in conjunction with displaying the subsequent set of metrics. Each set of metrics may be displayed as a spider graph so that a spider graph corresponding to the subsequent set of metrics is superimposed onto a spider graph corresponding to the baseline metrics for simultaneous display. Alternatively the visualization module can display simultaneously two or more respective spider graphs e.g. side by side display of baseline and post injury metrics .

The spider graphs may include any combination of scores and or indices. For example shows spider graphs the vertices of which include scores indices for SRT CRT SCAT BESS and VOR. Different numbers and indices can be utilized as vertices depending on the tests performed including any of those disclosed herein for example. The operation of the visualization module is illustrated in which is a flowchart showing a method for displaying concussion related performance metrics. The method may be performed after obtaining a set of baseline metrics and begins at step in which a subsequent postural stability metric s is obtained e.g. from the analysis data . In an example embodiment of the invention the method obtains at least one metric from each concussion domain. Accordingly in steps metrics are obtained which respectively relate to VOR integrity cognitive functioning and neuromotor functioning. For each baseline metric a corresponding subsequent metric counterpart may be obtained.

At step the subsequent metrics may be normalized relative to a baseline metric scale. According to an example embodiment the baseline metrics correspond to a fully functional or normal state for the subject patient. The baseline metrics may also be scaled to facilitate visual understanding. For example each baseline score or index can be considered as having a scaled value of 1 on a scale from 0 to 1. The visualization module may compute a difference between the baseline metrics and their counterpart subsequent metrics e.g. a percentage change relative to each respective baseline metric. The subsequent metrics are then scaled based on the difference. For example a difference of 25 would on a scale of 0 to 1 correspond to a scaled value of 0.75.

At step the baseline metrics may be displayed together with the scaled subsequent metrics. The spider graphs shown in correspond to example displayed results for two different patients. Each patient was evaluated at several points in time beginning with a baseline assessment then an evaluation twenty four hours after a concussion injury an evaluation three days after the same injury and an evaluation ten days after the same injury . Thus any number of subsequent evaluations may be performed each resulting in a new spider graph.

As shown in the examples of each patient suffered a decrease in function following injury. An advantage of displaying the metrics in the form of a spider graph and in particular a normalized spider graph lies in that because each patient may respond differently to injury e.g. different types of injury may affect different functions and each patient may respond to the same type of injury in a different way the comparison of different patients is facilitated by simultaneously showing how each baseline metric changed relative to the individual patient so that instead of comparing raw scores or indices of different patients it may be easier to simply visualize how each patient has been affected relative to his or her own baseline. To illustrate this the patient in experienced substantial worsening of SRT and CRT after ten days with moderate worsening of SCAT and BESS and almost no difference in VOR. In contrast the patient in experienced little worsening of SRT after ten days but moderate worsening of CRT SCAT BESS and VOR.

Displaying the metrics in the manner described above may facilitate return to play decisions in sports e.g. whether an injured player should resume playing can be dependent on a clinician s assessment of how impaired the player is relative to his baseline. Clinicians may have different opinions as to which metric is most important to a player s continued ability to play. For example a clinician may value VOR over CRT so that a substantial worsening of CRT may nonetheless result in an opinion that the player can continue to play so long as VOR remains substantially the same. In addition to return to play decisions the displaying of the metrics may also be useful in therapeutic interventions e.g. in DBS stimulation parameters may target specific functions so that a worsening of VOR can be treated using a specific stimulation parameter combination different from a combination used to treat worsening of CRT.

In an example embodiment postural stability may be determined using objective tests in addition or as an alternative to subjective tests such as BESS. While conventional BESS testing relies on the subjective interpretation of a test administrator e.g. to determine whether the patient is in the correct stance it may be desirable to include objective data for assessing postural stability. Accordingly one example embodiment relates to combining data obtained from a gyroscope and an accelerometer. In a preferred embodiment the gyroscope and accelerometer may be co located in a single portable device e.g. a device that is attached to or held by the user patient e.g. a PDA smartphone tablet PC or the like . Additionally this portable device may include a display e.g. a touch screen for administering at least one of the tests previously described e.g. an SRT CRT or trails test.

In step the gyroscope measurements are obtained and angular acceleration values calculated from those measurements. The calculation may be performed e.g. using the analysis engine .

In step the accelerometer measurements are obtained and linear acceleration values are calculated. The method may then proceed to step where it may be determined whether additional measuring positions or conditions are required. For example the angle of inclination of the pad may be adjusted or the patient may be asked to change posture. If there are additional positions conditions the method returns to step .

When no measuring positions or conditions are remaining a postural stability score or index may be calculated based on the obtained measurements. Gyroscope and accelerometer data may be used to determine the location of the patient s center of gravity as a function of parameters that may include how fast how far and in what direction the user is moving. The calculation of center of gravity as a function of these parameters would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Changes in the location of the center of gravity over time may be used to calculate a score or index for postural stability. For example postural sway may be computed based on the average deviation for center of gravity a function of the difference between the patient s initial center of gravity e.g. when the accelerometer gyroscope begins recording and an average center of gravity location and or a function of a frequency and or severity of deviations from the initial center of gravity.

In an example embodiment the functions of the vestibular system are tested and measured. For example balance and postural stability are related to proper functioning of the vestibular system. VOR is also related to the vestibular system. In particular when the patient is moving his head during a VOR test the vestibular system operates to stabilize images to maintain visual acuity help maintain postural stability and to provide information for spatial orientation. These are accomplished in large part by the anatomic structures of the peripheral vestibular system and its neurophysiologic connections to the visual system and motor pathways.

The vestibular labyrinth includes anatomical structures that respond to changes in body position. Certain structures respond to linear acceleration whereas other structures respond to angular acceleration. The accelerations are generated when the patient s body changes position. The anatomical structures react to the accelerations and the continued ability of the patient to maintain balance or posture is a function of these reactions. The movement of the patient e.g. in an attempt to maintain postural stability generates further accelerations which can then be measured using the gyroscope and or accelerometer. For example the semi circular canals utricle and saccule generate afferent information regarding spatial orientation to elicit balance reactions via connections with cerebellar and motor pathways to maintain postural stability.

In addition to reactions that relate to postural stability visual reactions e.g. pertaining to VOR may occur. Afferent input from the vestibular organs may synapse with the oculomotor nerves to generate rapid compensatory eye movements to maintain visual focus. Common symptoms of vestibular dysfunction include dizziness impaired balance blurred vision vertigo and decreased tolerance of bright lights noise or movement. Such symptoms can be measured and detected using VOR and other visual tests.

Accurate testing of concussion related functions depends on the cooperation of the patient. Athletes may have an incentive to underperform during baseline testing so that during subsequent testing performed following injury worsening in function may not appear as significant relative to baseline function.

Additionally there may be occasions where a patient anticipates the correct response to a task or question during testing. For example anticipation may result from a fortuitous guess as to the location of the next target when the next target has yet to be displayed. Anticipation may also result from cheating including memorization of tasks such as a trail trajectory. Accordingly it is desirable to detect intentional underperformance and anticipation.

At step it may be determined whether the reaction time is above an upper threshold. If the reaction time is above the upper threshold this indicates potential intentional underperformance and the method proceeds to step where a corrective procedure is performed. The corrective procedure may be as simple as ignoring e.g. invalidating or deleting the response associated with the reaction time. In an example embodiment the corrective procedure may involve substituting the original task or question with a new task question of equal difficulty. Alternatively the difficulty level can be changed in order to gauge whether the patient is performing as expected in response to the change in difficulty. For example it would be expected that a patient would take longer to respond to a task of higher difficulty. However if the patient is intentionally underperforming the patient may respond in substantially the same manner as before e.g. take equally as long to respond . Alternatively the original task may be repeated at a later time e.g. after several additional tasks in order to compare the reaction times of two or more instances of the original task.

If the upper threshold is not exceeded the method may proceed to step where it may be determined whether the reaction time is below a lower threshold which would indicate potential anticipation and trigger another corrective procedure step .

In an example embodiment the upper and lower threshold values are obtained from statistics information pertaining to norms for similarly situated individuals selected from among other patients or members of the general population. For example upper and lower threshold values may be obtained by referencing reaction times of other patients having the same age as the subject patient. The upper threshold may correspond to an absolute maximum or average maximum reaction time observed among all patients of the same age as or within an age range e.g. plus or minus two years of the subject patient. Similarly the lower threshold may correspond to an absolute minimum or average minimum observed reaction time among all patients of the same age or age range. Other clinical factors may be used for selecting the group of similarly situated individuals including gender height weight body mass index body proportion e.g. the length of the legs relative to the torso and disease condition e.g. Alzheimer s .

If the reaction time is not below the lower threshold then neither anticipation nor intentional underperformance has been detected and the response is valid and the method proceeds to the next task or question .

While the method has been described in connection with the detection of intentional underperformance and anticipation during SRT and CRT testing the method may also be applied towards other types of tests that involve a timed response. For example age norm quality control may also be applied to postural stability e.g. how quickly the patient changes position and cognitive functioning tests e.g. how quickly the patient recognizes a displayed object .

In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the invention has been described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by a computer such as the computer or remote computer unless otherwise indicated. Such acts and operations are sometimes referred to as being computer executed. It will be appreciated that the acts and symbolically represented operations include the manipulation by the processing unit of electrical signals representing data bits which causes a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical signal representation and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in the memory system including the system memory hard drive floppy disks CD ROM and remote memory storage to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the computer system s operation as well as other processing of signals and or store data obtained as results of such processing. The memory locations where such data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic or optical properties corresponding to the data bits.

What have been described above are examples and embodiments of the invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the invention but one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the invention are possible. For example the approach can be utilized to help diagnose other conditions or disorder than traumatic brain injury.

