---

title: Payment transactions on mobile device using mobile carrier
abstract: A user makes a purchase request through a merchant app on a mobile device, such as by selecting an item for purchase. A mobile SDK of a payment provider is installed in the merchant app. The payment request includes the phone number for the mobile device. The payment provider verifies the phone number of the user and requests approval of the payment from a mobile operator providing wireless communication services on the mobile device. If the request is approved, the payment is charged to the user mobile operator account. The user simply taps a button to select an item to purchase and selects another button to confirm the purchase. Once processing is done, the user is notified on the mobile device of a successful payment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805326&OS=08805326&RS=08805326
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08805326
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120509
---
The present application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Appl. Ser. No. 61 484 400 filed May 10 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Consumers are using mobile devices such as smart phones and computing tablets in an ever increasing number of ways other than traditional voice communications between two users. For example consumers are able to access the Internet such as through mobile Internet applications apps watch programs listen to music etc. More recently consumers are able to make payments using their mobile device which provides an advantage of the consumer not having to carry physical funding instruments such as credit cards cash and debit cards.

However due in part to security concerns many mobile payment processes can be time consuming and inconvenient. For example the consumer may need to first be authenticated by a payment provider such as by entering a user identifier like a user name email address or phone number and a PIN or password. The consumer may also need to select a funding source or even enter funding source information such as a credit card number. Additional information may further be required from the consumer before a payment can be processed and made. Furthermore the overall processing time from payment request initiation to payment completion may be relatively time consuming due to processing by the payment provider.

Therefore there is a need for a fast and easy way for a consumer to make a payment using a mobile device that overcomes the disadvantages of conventional methods discussed above.

In one embodiment a mobile payment application is installed in a merchant or seller application app on a user mobile device where the mobile payment app may be from a service or payment provider. When the user is in the merchant app the user is able to see and purchase specific items including digital goods and services from the merchant. By tapping or otherwise selecting a payment button or link the user mobile device communicates the request to purchase to the service provider where the request includes the user s mobile phone number.

The service provider then generates a one time token and sends the token to the user mobile device using the received mobile phone number. The mobile payment app on the phone receives the one time token and verifies its authenticity by sending it back to the service provider through the user mobile device.

The service provider then communicates the purchase request to a mobile carrier or operator of the user s mobile device i.e. the entity providing mobile device wireless communication services for the user. The mobile carrier then processes the purchase request which includes the payment amount and one or more of merchant information and item service information and approves or declines the payment request. The approval or decline is communicated to the service provider which then communicates a notification to the user mobile device and to the merchant app.

As a result if the payment request is approved the user may receive the item or service quickly and easily through a single touch or selection on the user mobile device. Because the service provider knows the user s phone number that information can be used to process the payment request without additional user input.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Within the merchant app is a mobile software development kit SDK from a service or payment provider such as Zong. The mobile SDK is a client library that can be installed in a mobile application that runs on any mobile connected device. The mobile SDK allows a user to make a payment through the merchant app utilizing the services of the payment provider. For example a mobile SDK from the payment provider may be downloaded or installed in many different merchant apps on a user mobile device.

While in the merchant app the user may see an item the user wishes to purchase. The item may be a digital good visible on a display of the user device such as while the user is playing or engaged in a game. The item may also be part of a shopping page or other content display. If the uses wishes to purchase the item the user can select the item at step on the user device. Item selection may include tapping on a button or link associated with the item where the button includes an indication to purchase the item price of the item description or information about the item and or other information as appropriate.

Selecting the item may then display to the user on the user device information or additional information about the item including a billing number and a confirmation to buy button. For example the previous content screen may be replaced by a screen with a description of the item to be purchased the amount a phone number the purchased will be billed to and a button or link the user can select to confirm or buy the item. This information page in another embodiment may be a pop up or overlay of the content screen which allows the user to remain on the main content page while the payment is being processed.

Once the item is selected for purchase by the user a payment request is electronically communicated or transmitted at step to the payment provider from the user device. The payment request may include the mobile number associated with the user device or other device identifier. Other information in the payment request may include the amount of the item being purchased and a description of the item. Merchant information may also be conveyed automatically because the mobile SDK is run from within the merchant app.

At step a determination is made whether the user can be authenticated or verified. This may include determining whether the number contained in the payment request matches a phone number associated with the user with the payment provider. A user may be required to have an account with the payment provider which would include the payment provider having stored information about the user such as the mobile number s associated with user device s user name billing address user identifier and or a password or PIN.

As part of the authentication process the payment provider may generate a one time use token and transmit the token to the user s messaging port on the user device. In one embodiment the token includes a unique identifier which may be stored and associated with the transaction or payment request. The token is received by the mobile SDK in the merchant app which then verifies the token s authenticity which may occur after the SDK remits it to the payment provider. The token is transmitted back to the payment provider to confirm or authenticate the user. Thus in one embodiment the payment provider sends the token to the phone number that is requesting the billing. The SDK then remits the token to payment provider so payment provider can verify that it is authentic. If so the billing event occurs.

If the user cannot be authenticated a notification is sent at step . The notification may be sent electronically to the user device that made the payment request or to another user device on record for the user. The notification may include a message such as through text or voice that the payment request has been denied.

However if the user is authenticated the payment provider transmits at step the payment request to a mobile operator or carrier. The mobile operator is a wireless service provider providing communication services such as voice text and data for the user through the user mobile device. Examples of a mobile operator include Verizon Wireless AT T Mobility Sprint Cox Wireless and Sprint Nextel.

The payment request received by the mobile operator may include an amount and an identifier for a user account with the mobile operator such as a mobile number. Additional information may be included as appropriate or desired such as merchant information item information etc.

At step the mobile operator may determine whether the payment request is approved or denied. The mobile operator may access the user s account with the mobile operator to determine whether there are any restrictions limitations or other information that would affect the payment request. For example the account may be past due such that any payment requests on the account would be denied. The account may also have a limit or maximum as to an individual or total amount. If the payment request is higher than this limit the request may be denied. These and other factors such as any risk analysis may contribute to the decision whether to approve or deny the payment request.

If the payment request is denied mobile operator may communicate the decision to the payment provider who in turn may communicate the decision to the user device. In other embodiments the mobile operator may communicate the decision to the user device directly. Thus the user is notified at step when the payment request is denied.

However if as determined at step the payment request is approved by the mobile operator the payment may be processed at step . Processing may include the mobile operator adding the charge or amount to the mobile account of the user. A merchant account may be credited the purchase amount either by the mobile operator or the payment provider. If the latter the payment provider may debit an account or otherwise bill the mobile operator the appropriate amount.

The payment provider may then notify at step the user and or the merchant. For example the payment provider may send a mobile payment confirmation to the user s mobile device and to the merchant app either separately or through the mobile SDK. A digital receipt may also be sent to the user s mobile device.

The user may then receive the benefits of the purchased item. For example the benefit may be immediate if the item is a digital good or some time in the future if the item is a physical good to be delivered to or picked up by the user or a service to be used by the user at a later date. Advantageously the user can make a payment on the user s mobile device with a single touch or tap of the user device a first touch may select the item for purchase .

Note that one or more of the steps described above may be omitted combined or performed in a different order as desired and appropriate.

After selecting the item the user sees a payment screen in . The payment screen includes a description of the item to be purchased one flower package for 1.00 a number to be charged to which is typically the number of the user s mobile device and a Buy button that the user can select to confirm or make the purchase.

Once the user taps the Buy button the user sees in an overlaid pop up screen indicating to the user that the payment provider is authenticating the mobile phone and that the purchase amount 1.00 will be charged to the user s mobile phone bill.

After the phone number has been authenticated the user sees another overlaid pop up screen indicating to the user that the purchase is being initialized with the user s wireless mobile carrier or operator as shown in .

Finally at the user is notified of a successful or approved payment with details of the purchase and informing the user of a specific amount charged to the user s mobile phone bill along with other information such as a text receipt was sent and that additional information can be obtained the payment provider web site. The user can then select or tap the Close button to return to the game in but without the 1.00 for flowers sign. In fact the flowers will now be part of the game display as a result of the one touch purchase made by the user.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the cloud the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client device may be implemented as a smart phone of a user e.g. a client or customer in communication with network . In other examples client device may be implemented as a computing tablet or other computing devices having communication capabilities through a wireless communication service provider. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments client device may be referred to as a user device or a customer client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Client device in one embodiment may include one or more browser applications which may be used to provide a user interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . In one implementation browser application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with merchant services and payment provider server via network . For example user is able to access mobile apps on the client device to purchase items. User through client device may also communicate with payment provider server to create an account and make payments using an account with the mobile operator.

As such client device in one embodiment may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including selecting items for purchase and making payments with payment provider server using an account with the mobile operator. For example applications may include interfaces apps and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through online sites and payment provider server . Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Client device may also include a location application that enables the location of the client device to be determined and conveyed to others such as a payment provider. Such applications are commonly known.

Client device also includes one or more merchant apps that allow the user to access such apps to make purchases from the merchant through a specific merchant app. Each merchant app may also include a mobile SDK provided by the payment provider which can be installed or downloaded into the merchant app. The mobile SDK app allows user to make a one touch payment through client device with the funding instrument being a user account with the mobile operator.

Mobile operator device may be maintained by one or more wireless service providers offering voice and data communication services to user through client device . Mobile operator device which can be a server may include a database that stores user account information such as a user phone number calls made to and from the number charges incurred on the account payments made to and from the account etc. User account information may also include limitations or restrictions placed on the account by the user and or the mobile operator.

A communication application enables mobile operator device to communicate with payment provider server and client device including providing communication services for client device . A payment application may be used to handle payments and charges to and from user mobile accounts including storing payment records determining payment issues etc.

Payment provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a payment provider which may provide processing for financial transactions on behalf of user with a merchant. Payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or mobile operator device over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and make payments by user of user device and as discussed above.

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example account information may include financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate payment transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with mobile operator device on behalf of user during a transaction through merchant app for a payment using an account with the mobile operator.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from a user device and or mobile operator device for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing an order and payment as described herein. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary including obtaining user device information such as a phone number to associate with an account.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard and a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component such as described above with respect to the user merchant and or payment provider in . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and a communication interface . Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

