---

title: System and method of recommending actions based on social capital of users in a social network
abstract: In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure, a method may include calculating an influence score relating to an action performed by a user of a social network, the influence score for the user being based on performance of the action by a contact of the user and occurring after performance of the action by the user and calculating an action score based on the influence score for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088620&OS=09088620&RS=09088620
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09088620
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120628
---
This disclosure generally relates to social networking and in particular recommending actions to users based on the social capital of other users in a social network.

As the popularity of the Internet has increased so has the prevalence of social networking websites and applications. Generally speaking a social network refers to an application or service that facilitates the building of online communities of people who share interests and activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Many social network services are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services.

In many social networks a particular user may allow their social contacts to view various actions taken by the particular user. As an example the user may use a social bookmarking web service to perform the action of bookmarking a web Uniform Resource Locator URL and tagging it with a descriptive tag. As another example the user may use a social networking site relating to movies to perform the action of rating and or reviewing a movie. As a further example the user may perform the action of writing a review of a product in a personal blog such as a status update in a social networking application. As yet another example the user may perform the action of checking in to a particular venue.

The user s social contacts may view the user s actions on the social network and may be interested in performing the same or similar actions e.g. visiting a website tagged by the user in social bookmarking website purchasing or renting a movie reviewed by the user at the movie related social networking site or purchasing a product reviewed on the user s personal blog . Accordingly the user may be said to have influenced actions performed by his or her social contacts. In a social network such actions may further propagate to contacts of the user s contacts. Such a user influence pattern may be referred to as social capital. 

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a method may include calculating an influence score relating to an action performed by a user of a social network the influence score for the user being based on performance of the action by a contact of the user and occurring after performance of the action by the user and calculating an action score based on the influence score for the user.

Technical advantages of the present disclosure may be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the figures description and claims included herein. The objects and advantages of the embodiments will be realized and achieved at least by the elements features and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As illustrates a particular implementation of the invention may operate in a network environment comprising network application hosting site such as an informational web site social network site and the like. Although illustrates only one network application hosting site implementations of the invention may operate in network environments that include multiples of one or more of the individual systems and sites disclosed herein. Client nodes may be operably connected to the network environment via a network service provider or any other suitable means.

A client node may include a computer or computing device including functionality for communicating over a computer network. A client node may include a personal computer e.g. a desktop laptop notebook or tablet computer etc. or a mobile devices e.g. a cellular telephone a smartphone a personal digital assistant etc. . A client node may execute one or more client applications such as a web browser to access and view content over a computer network. In particular implementations the client applications allow users to enter addresses of specific network resources to be retrieved. These addresses can be Uniform Resource Locators or URLs. In addition once a page or other resource has been retrieved the client applications may provide access to other pages or records when the user clicks on hyperlinks to other resources. In some implementations such hyperlinks are located within web pages and provide an automated way for the user to enter the URL of another page and to retrieve that page. The pages or resources can be data records including as content plain textual information or more complex digitally encoded multimedia content such as software programs or other code objects graphics images audio signals videos and so forth.

The networked systems described herein may communicate over the network using any suitable communications protocols. For example client nodes as well as various servers of the systems described herein may include Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP networking stacks to provide for datagram and transport functions. Of course any other suitable network and transport layer protocols can be utilized.

In addition hosts or end systems described herein may use a variety of higher layer communications protocols including client server or request response protocols such as the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and other communications protocols such as HTTP S FTP SNMP TELNET and a number of other protocols may be used. In addition a server in one interaction context may be a client in another interaction context. Still further in particular implementations the information transmitted between hosts may be formatted as HyperText Markup Language HTML documents. Other structured document languages or formats can be used such as eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like.

In some client server protocols such as the use of HTML over HTTP a server generally transmits a response to a request from a client. The response may include one or more data objects. For example the response may include a first data object followed by subsequently transmitted data objects. In one implementation for example a client request may cause a server to respond with a first data object such as an HTML page which itself refers to other data objects. A client application such as a browser will request these additional data objects as it parses or otherwise processes the first data object.

Mobile client nodes may use other communications protocols and data formats. For example mobile client nodes in some implementations may include Wireless Application Protocol WAP functionality and a WAP browser. The use of other wireless or mobile device protocol suites is also possible. In addition the network environment may also include protocol translation gateways proxies or other systems to allow mobile client nodes for example to access other network protocol environments. For example a user may use a mobile client node to capture an image and upload the image over the carrier network to a content site connected to the Internet.

Network application hosting site may be a network addressable system that hosts a network application accessible to one or more users over a computer network. The network application may be an informational web site where users request and receive identified web pages and other content over the computer network. The network application may also be a search platform an on line forum or blogging application where users may submit or otherwise configure content for display to other users. The network application may also be a social network application allowing users to configure and maintain personal web pages. The network application may also be a content distribution application e.g. a music store library a podcasting server that displays available content and transmits content to users.

Network application hosting site may include one or more physical servers and content data store . The one or more physical servers may be operably connected to computer network via a router . The one or more physical servers may host functionality that provides a network application e.g a news content site etc. to a user. As discussed in connection with the functionality hosted by the one or more physical servers may include web or HTTP servers ad serving systems geo targeting systems and the like. Still further some or all of the functionality described herein may be accessible using an HTTP interface or presented as a web service using SOAP or other suitable protocols.

Content data store may store content as digital content data objects. A content data object or content object in particular implementations is an individual item of digital information typically stored or embodied in a data file or record. Content objects may take many forms including text e.g. ASCII SGML HTML images e.g. jpeg tif and gif graphics vector based or bitmap audio video e.g. mpeg or other multimedia and combinations thereof. Content object data may also include executable code objects e.g. games executable within a browser window or frame podcasts etc. Structurally content data store may connote a large class of data storage and management systems. In particular implementations content data store may be implemented by any suitable physical system including components such as database servers mass storage media media library systems and the like.

Network application hosting site in one implementation provides web pages such as front pages that include an information package or module describing one or more attributes of a network addressable resource such as a web page containing an article or product description a downloadable or streaming media file and the like. The web page may also include one or more ads such as banner ads text based ads sponsored videos games and the like. Generally web pages and other resources include hypertext links or other controls that a user can activate to retrieve additional web pages or resources. A user clicks on the hyperlink with a computer input device to initiate a retrieval request to retrieve the information associated with the hyperlink or control.

Network client may include a web client hosted on client computers a client host located on physical server or a server host located on physical server . Client host may be an executable web or HTTP server module that accepts HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP requests from network clients acting as a web clients such web browser client applications hosted on client computers and serving HTTP responses including contents such as HyperText Markup Language HTML documents and linked objects images advertisements etc. . Client host may also be an executable module that accepts Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP requests from one or more client hosts or one or more server hosts . In some embodiments client host may have the capability of delegating all or part of single or multiple requests from network client to one or more server hosts . Client host as discussed above may operate to deliver a network application such as an informational web page or an Internet search service.

In a particular implementation client host may act as a server host to another client host and may function to further delegate requests to one or more server hosts and or one or more client hosts . Server hosts host one or more server applications such as an ad selection server sponsored search server content customization server and the like.

In a social networking service each user of the social network may create a network profile e.g. username password and or biographical information via a client node . For example a user may access the social network via an application program available at the client node and or via a website for the social network. Via client nodes each user may also specify other users in the social network to which the user has a social tie. In this disclosure the terms social tie and tie may be used to indicate a social relationship between two users in a social network e.g. a friend buddy connection link etc. while the term contact may be used to indicate a user for which a user has a social tie. In addition to a social tie existing based on a declared relationship between users a social tie may also be derived by the social networking service on the basis of shared interests and or biographical information of the users. The social networking application user biographical information social ties and contact information may be hosted at network application hosting site . Users using client nodes may access the social networking application via network cloud .

Once a user s contacts have been identified a user may be able to access the social networking application website and or application to view some or all of the profile information of his or her contacts including for example actions performed by the contacts.

In operation a network application may calculate a score for a particular action based on the social capital of one or more users of a social network as explained in greater detail below. An influence score for an action for each user may be calculated based on occurrences of the action or a derivative action of the action by other users that occur after the user performs such action. For example the influence score may be a function of the number of times the action or a derivative action is performed by contacts of the user after the performance of the action by the user and or the frequency of performance of the action or a derivative action by contacts of the user. In addition or alternatively the influence score for an action for a user may be a function of the influence scores for the action of contacts of the user such that the influence score for a user may account for the propagation of the user s influence through the social network. In addition or alternatively the influence score including portions thereof e.g. the number of times the action or a derivative action is performed by contacts of the user after the performance of the action by the user the frequency of performance of the action or a derivative action by contacts of the user influence scores of a user s contacts may be a function of the time that subsequent actions or derivative actions by a user s contacts are performed after the initial performance of the action by the user such that later occurring instances of the action or a derivative action have lesser weight in calculating the influence score than those occurring earlier. In some embodiments an initial influence score may be assumed for each user and a final influence score for each user may be iteratively and or recursively calculated based on the influence scores of contacts of each user.

After influence scores for an event have been calculated for users in a social network the network application may calculate an action score associated with the action. Such action score may be the sum of the individual influence scores of the users of a social network respective to the action. By analyzing action scores for numerous actions the actions may be ranked according to action score. Accordingly the network application may recommend actions to users of a social network based on social capital of its users e.g. recommendation of song based on influence as determined by the action of downloading of the song by users of the social network recommendation of a restaurant based on influence as determined by the action of checking in to the restaurant etc. .

As used herein a derivative action of a particular action may be an action that is related to based on and or similar to but not necessarily identical to the particular action. For example a first user may perform the action of reviewing a restaurant and a second user may perform the derivative action of checking in to the restaurant.

In operation a network application may calculate an influence score for an action for each of one or more users of a social network. As described above such influence score may be based on one or more of the number of times the action or a derivative action is performed by contacts of the user after the performance of the action by the user the frequency of performance of the action or a derivative by contacts of the user the influence scores for the action of contacts of the user and or the time that subsequent actions or derivative actions by a user s contacts are performed after the initial performance of the action by the user.

In operation the network application may calculate an action score. The action score may be equal to the sum of individual influence scores of the individual users performing the action.

Although discloses a particular number of operations to be taken with respect to method method may be executed with greater or lesser operations than those depicted in . In addition although discloses a certain order of operations to be taken with respect to method the operations comprising method may be completed in any suitable order.

The various operations of system may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. Operations implemented in software may be implemented as a program of instructions embodied in a computer readable medium e.g. memory depicted in described below and executable by a processor e.g. processor depicted in described below .

Particular embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical objects to aid the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Although embodiments of the present inventions have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations could me made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

