---

title: Atropisomeric 1,8-bisphenolnapthalenes and their use in enantioselective recognition and asymmetric synthesis
abstract: 

which are useful in resolution of enantiomers, enantioselective recognition and asymmetric synthesis.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09085511&OS=09085511&RS=09085511
owner: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
number: 09085511
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120403
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Appl. No. 61 471 450 filed Apr. 4 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made in part with government support under grant number CHE 0910604 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights to this invention.

The documents cited or referenced herein herein cited documents and all documents cited or referenced in herein cited documents together with any manufacturer s instructions descriptions product specifications and product sheets for any products mentioned herein or in any document incorporated by reference herein are hereby incorporated by reference and may be employed in the practice of the invention.

This invention related to atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes and derivatives thereof of the general formula I 

The intriguing structure and dynamic stereochemistry of axially chiral compounds has fueled their use in asymmetric synthesis chiral recognition the design of microscopic devices such as molecular motors and switches drug discovery and other areas. Wolf C. Ed. Dynamic Stereochemistry of Chiral Compounds RSC Cambridge 2008. Undoubtedly the exceptional diversity and the unique stereochemical electronic and photochemical properties of both conformationally stable and rapidly racemizing axially chiral biaryls and polyaryls have led to a wide variety of applications. See e.g. Qiao X. Padula M. A. Ho D. M. Vogelaar N. J. Schutt C. E. Pascal Jr. R. A. 1996 118 741 745. It is therefore not surprising that structural analysis along with the study of enantiomerization and diastereomerization processes of mono and disubstituted naphthalenes have received significant attention. See e.g. Casarini D. Lunazzi L. Macciantelli D. 1984 25 3641 3642 . Alkyl See e.g. Fields D. L. Regan T. H. 1971 36 2986 2990. aryl See e.g. House H. O. Magin R. W. Thompson H. W. 1963 28 2403 2406. and heteroaryl See e.g. Zoltewicz J. A. Maier N. M. Fabian W. M. F. 1996 52 8703 8706. groups have been introduced into the naphthalene framework to study the energy barrier to rotation about the naphthyl alkyl or naphthyl aryl bond and intramolecular interactions between proximate alkyl and aryl groups.

In particular the incorporation of two phenol rings into a rigid C symmetric scaffold that is reminiscent of the successful BINOL motif has been of general interest due to potential applications in asymmetric catalysis and enantioselective sensing for a long time. See e.g. Pritchard R. G. Steele M. Watkinson M. Whiting A. 2000 41 6915 6918. 

Although the synthesis of BINOL was first reported in 1873 it took another 100 years until this prime example of a C symmetric bidentate atropisomer gained considerable attention. See von Richter V. 1873 6 1249 1260. Since the mid 1970s BINOL and its derivatives have found extensive use in asymmetric reactions molecular recognition studies and other applications. See e.g. Pu L. 1998 98 2405 2494. The intriguing structure of BINOL and its success as chiral ligand and reagent in asymmetric synthesis has propelled the development of countless analogues that vary in stereoelectronic properties and bite angle. For many years the synthesis of axially chiral 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes has been pursued due to the apparent structural analogy to BINOL and the associated promise in asymmetric catalysis and other areas.

Other attempts to synthesize derivatives of BINOL include the applicants previous work described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 888 509 which included general references to aryl and heteroaryl derivatives of naphthalene and specific examples directed to diacridine derivatives of naphthalene core structure of diacridine derivative shown below .

However the incorporation of sufficient steric bulk into the chiral 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene framework to halt rotation about the aryl aryl axes and concomitant racemization has proven difficult. See e.g. Pritchard R. G. Steele M. Watkinson M. Whiting A. 2000. Accordingly few stereodynamic 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes such as 1 8 bis 3 formyl 4 hydroxyphenyl naphthalene 1 have been reported to date and used in racemic form. See e.g. Watkinson M. Whiting A. McAuliffe C. A. 1994 2141. 

Therefore a need still exists in the art for 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene derivatives which are isolatable and suitable for use in resolution of enantiomers enantioselective recognition and asymmetric synthesis.

The applicants have addressed the need in the art for 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene derivatives which are isolatable and suitable for use in enantioselective recognition and asymmetric synthesis by providing 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds with ortho and meta substitution on the phenolic ring relative to its bonding with napthalene.

One aspect of the invention relates to atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I 

Another aspect of the invention relates to the process of making the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

Another aspect of the invention relates to the process of converting one conformer of the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I into another conformeric form and optionally to isolate the conformer.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of providing enantiomeric recognition between stereoisomers of a compound which comprising of adding an atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

Another aspect of the invention relates to the process of separating enantiomers from a racemic mixture of atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of conducting asymmetric synthesis of a compound which comprising of adding an atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

These aspects of the invention and other aspects of the invention are disclosed or are apparent from and encompassed by the Detailed Description which follows below.

 atropisomer stereoisomers resulting from hindered rotation about single bonds where the steric strain barrier to rotation is high enough to allow for the isolation of conformers.

 hydroxy protecting group refers to known OH protecting groups to those of skill in the art which includes but is not limited to those described in Theodora W. Greene and Peter G. M. Wuts Wiley Interscience October 2006 .

For the compound of formula I and all subsequent formulae terms for chemical radicals are used are defined as follows.

A hydrocarbon radical is an aliphatic cycloaliphatic or aromatic monocyclic or in the case of an optionally substituted hydrocarbon radical also a bicyclic or polycyclic organic radical based on the elements carbon and hydrogen including for example the radicals alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl phenyl naphthyl indanyl indenyl etc. this applies correspondingly to hydrocarbon radicals in composite meanings such as hydrocarbonoxy radicals or other hydrocarbon radicals attached via heteroatom groups.

The hydrocarbon radicals also in the special radicals alkyl alkoxy haloalkyl haloalkoxy alkylamino and alkylthio and also the corresponding unsaturated and or substituted radicals may in each case be straight chain or branched in the carbon skeleton.

By way of example the expression C C alkyl is a brief notation for alkyl having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms i.e. encompasses the methyl ethyl 1 propyl 2 propyl 1 butyl 2 butyl 2 methylpropyl or tert butyl radicals. General alkyl radicals with a larger specified range of carbon atoms for example C C alkyl correspondingly also include straight chain or branched alkyl radicals having a larger number of carbon atoms i.e. according to the example also the alkyl radicals having 5 and 6 carbon atoms.

Alkyl radicals including in the combined definitions such as alkoxy haloalkyl etc. are for example methyl ethyl n or i propyl n i t or 2 butyl pentyls hexyls such as n hexyl i hexyl and 1 3 dimethylbutyl heptyls such as n heptyl 1 methylhexyl and 1 4 dimethylpentyl alkenyl and alkynyl radicals are defined as the possible unsaturated radicals corresponding to the alkyl radicals alkenyl is for example vinyl allyl 1 methyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl 2 butenyl pentenyl 2 methylpentenyl or hexenyl group preferably allyl 1 methylprop 2 en 1 yl 2 methylprop 2 en 1 yl but 2 en 1 yl but 3 en 1 yl 1 methylbut 3 en 1 yl or 1 methylbut 2 en 1 yl.

Alkenyl also includes in particular straight chain or branched hydrocarbon radicals having more than one double bond such as 1 3 butadienyl and 1 4 pentadienyl but also allenyl or cumulenyl radicals having one or more cumulated double bonds for example allenyl 1 2 propadienyl 1 2 butadienyl and 1 2 3 pentatrienyl.

Alkynyl also includes in particular straight chain or branched hydrocarbon radicals having more than one triple bond or else having one or more triple bonds and one or more double bonds for example 1 3 butatrienyl or 3 penten 1 yn 1 yl pent 3 en 1 yn 1 yl .

A carbocyclic ring is any form of a closed ring of carbon atoms and can include alicyclic or aromatic structures. Examples of such structures include but are not limited to C C cycloalkyl which is a carbocyclic saturated ring system having 3 9 ring carbon atoms for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl or cyclononyl. In the case of substituted cycloalkyl cyclic systems with substituents are included where the substituents may also be bonded by a double bond on the cycloalkyl radical for example an alkylidene group such as methylidene. Further examples include but are not limited to C C cycloalkenyl which is a carbocyclic nonaromatic partially unsaturated ring system having 5 9 ring carbon atoms for example 1 cyclobutenyl 2 cyclobutenyl 1 cyclopentenyl 2 cyclopentenyl 3 cyclopentenyl or 1 cyclohexenyl 2 cyclohexenyl 3 cyclohexenyl 1 3 cyclohexadienyl or 1 4 cyclohexadienyl. In the case of substituted cycloalkenyl the explanations for substituted cycloalkyl apply correspondingly.

Alkylidene for example also in the form of C C alkylidene is the radical of a straight chain or branched alkane which is bonded via a double bond the position of the binding site not being fixed. In the case of a branched alkane of course only positions at which two hydrogen atoms may be replaced by the double bond are possible radicals are for example CH CH CH C CH CH C CH CHor C CH CH.

Halogen is for example fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine. Haloalkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are respectively alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl substituted partly or fully by identical or different halogen atoms preferably from the group of fluorine chlorine and bromine in particular from the group of fluorine and chlorine for example monohaloalkyl perhaloalkyl CF CHF CHF CFCF CHFCHCl CCl CHCl CHCHCl haloalkoxy is for example OCF OCHF OCHF CFCFO OCHCFand OCHCHCl the same applies to haloalkenyl and other halogen substituted radicals.

Aryl is a mono bi or polycyclic carbocyclic aromatic system for example phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl indenyl indanyl pentalenyl fluorenyl and the like preferably phenyl.

Optionally substituted aryl also includes polycyclic systems such as tetrahydronaphthyl indenyl indanyl fluorenyl biphenylyl where the point of attachment is at the aromatic system.

A heterocyclic radical heterocyclyl comprises at least one heterocyclic ring carbocyclic ring in which at least one carbon atom is replaced by a heteroatom e.g. by a heteroatom from the group consisting of N O S P B Si Se which is saturated unsaturated or heteroaromatic and may be unsubstituted or substituted where the point of attachment is located at a ring atom.

If the heterocyclyl radical or the heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted it can be fused to other carbocyclic or heterocyclic rings.

Optionally substituted heterocyclyl also includes polycyclic systems such as for example 8 aza bicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl or 1 aza bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl.

Optionally substituted heterocyclyl also includes spirocyclic systems such as for example 1 oxa 5 aza spiro 2.3 hexyl.

Heteroaryl means from among the systems defined above under heterocyclyl in each case a heteroaromatic compound i.e. a fully unsaturated aromatic heterocyclic compound.

Substituted radicals such as a substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl phenyl benzyl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radical are for example a substituted radical derived from the unsubstituted base structure where the substituents are for example one or more preferably 1 2 or 3 radicals selected from the group of halogen alkoxy alkylthio SF hydroxyl amino nitro carboxyl cyano azido alkoxycarbonyl alkylcarbonyl formyl carbamoyl mono and dialkylaminocarbonyl substituted amino such as acylamino mono and dialkylamino and alkylsulfinyl alkylsulfonyl and in the case of cyclic radicals also alkyl haloalkyl alkylthioalkyl alkoxyalkyl optionally substituted mono and dialkylaminoalkyl and hydroxyalkyl in the term substituted radicals such as the substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl phenyl benzyl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals mentioned substituents include in addition to the saturated hydrocarbon radicals mentioned such as alkyl alkoxy alkylthio alkoxycarbonyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl or cycloalkyloxy corresponding unsaturated aliphatic and aromatic radicals such as optionally substituted alkenyl alkynyl alkenyloxy alkynyloxy phenyl and phenoxy. In the case of substituted cyclic radicals having aliphatic moieties in the ring cyclic systems with those substituents which are bonded on the ring by a double bond are also included for example substituted by an alkylidene group such as methylidene or ethylidene.

Acyl is a radical of an organic acid which arises in a formal sense by removal of a hydroxyl group on the acid function and the organic radical in the acid may also be bonded to the acid function via a heteroatom. Examples of acyl are the CO R radical of a carboxylic acid HO CO R and radicals of acids derived therefrom such as those of thiocarboxylic acid optionally N substituted iminocarboxylic acids or the radical of carbonic monoesters N substituted carbamic acid sulfonic acids sulfinic acids N substituted sulfonamide acids phosphonic acids or phosphinic acids.

The yl position of a radical denotes the carbon atom having the free bond. Compounds of the formula I according to the invention and compounds of the formula I used according to the invention and if appropriate salts thereof are in short also referred to as compounds I .

In addition for the purposes of this application compounds of the invention also include all stereoisomers and racemic mixtures thereof. The possible stereoisomers defined by their specific three dimensional shape such as enantiomers diastereomers Z and E isomers are all encompassed by the formula I and can in the preferred enantioselective procedure be prepared selectively when optically active materials are used. The application also includes all tautomeric forms pharmaceutically acceptable salts and crystalline forms including polymorphic forms.

One aspect of the invention relates to atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

One embodiment of this aspect of the invention is the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I 

Rand Rindependently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl aryl benzyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl chloro bromo iodo acyl amino amido azido cyano formyl carbamoyl SF nitro OR NR R SR P O OR P OR and P RB 

Another embodiment of this aspect of the invention is the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I wherein

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C cycloalkyl aryl benzyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl chloro bromo iodo C C acyl amino amido azido cyano formyl carbamoyl SF nitro OR NR R SR P O OR P OR and P RB 

Another embodiment of this aspect of the invention is the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I wherein

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl phenyl chloro bromo and iodo wherein at least one of Rand Ron each phenyl ring is not hydrogen 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C cycloalkyl phenyl C C acyl and formyl wherein at least one of Rand Ron each phenyl ring is not hydrogen 

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl hydroxyl C C alkoxy halogen NH amido azido cyano formyl carbamoyl nitro.

Another embodiment of this aspect of the invention is the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I wherein

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl phenyl chloro bromo and iodo wherein at least one of Rand Ron each phenyl ring is not hydrogen 

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C cycloalkyl phenyl C C acyl and formyl wherein at least one of Rand Ron each phenyl ring is not hydrogen 

R Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl hydroxyl C C alkoxy halogen NH amido azido cyano formyl carbamoyl nitro.

Another embodiment of this aspect of the invention is the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I wherein

Rand Rare independently H and methyl wherein at least one of Rand Ron each phenyl ring is not hydrogen 

Rand Rare independently phenyl or formyl wherein at least one of Rand Ron each phenyl ring is not hydrogen 

In another aspect of the invention the compounds of formula I are stable to racemization at room temperature 20 25 C. .

Another aspect of the invention relates to the process of making the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention Y is a boron based moiety and X is selected from the group consisting of chlorine bromine iodine phenylsulfonate tosylate and triflate.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention Y is selected from the group consisting of B OH 9 BBN B CHCHCH CH .

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention is where the process is by way of a process selected from the group consisting of Suzuki coupling Stille coupling Negishi coupling and Kumada coupling.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the process results in a ratio of syn and anti isomers for the compounds of formula I selected from the ranges consisting of about 1 1 to about 1 8 about 1 2 to about 1 6 and about 1 3 to about 1 4

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the process results in de diastereomeric excess for the compounds of formula I selected from the ranges consisting of 95 98 and 99 . Note that 99 is effectively complete stereochemical purity

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the moieties represented by variables R Rcan be synthesized after forming the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I with the above definition of variables R Rby derivitization techniques known to those of skill in the art see e.g. 6 Michael B. Smith and Jerry March Wiley Interscience 2007 Herbert House W.A. Benjamin Inc. 1972 .

Another aspect of the invention relates to the process of converting one conformer of the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I into another conformeric form.

In one embodiment of this aspect of the invention a conformer of the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I obtained from the described process of making is converted to another conformer by dissolving the conformer of the compound of formula I in a solvent and heating. In another embodiment of the invention the heating can be performed from room temperature to a temperature range selected from the group consisting of about 35 C. to less than the boiling point of the solvent about 35 C. to about 95 C. and about 40 C. to about 65 C. To facilitated the heating and conversion process the compounds of formula I can be dissolved using known techniques in the art e.g. such as those described in Furniss et al. Longman Scientific Technical 1989 .

Another aspect of the invention relates to a process of separating enantiomers from a racemic mixture of atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

In one embodiment of this aspect of the invention a racemic mixture of atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I is allowed to react with a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric adduct.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention Rand Rof formula I are independently selected from the group consisting of carboxy amide CHO CO alkyl C NH alkyl and amidino.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the chiral compound is an amine an amide a carboxylic acid an amino alcohol or an alcohol.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the chiral compound is an amine or an amino alcohol.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention diasteriomeric adducts are formed by condensing the racemic mixture of atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I with a chiral amine or amino alcohol to form a diimine product.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the chiral amino alcohol is selected from the group consisting of 2 amino 1 propanol 2 amino 4 methyl 1 pentanol ephedrine or pseudoephedrine.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the mixture of diastereomeric adducts are heated to allow the interconversion between the diastereomers which results in a diastereomeric adduct of formula I with a diasteriomeric excess de selected from the ranges consisting of 90 95 98 and 99 .

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the diastereomers of the diastereomeric adduct of formula I are separated chromatographically which results in a diastereomeric adduct of formula I with a diasteriomeric excess de selected from the ranges consisting of 90 95 98 and 99 .

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the diasteriomeric adduct is cleaved to yield an atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compound of formula I with enantiomeric excess ee selected from the ranges consisting of 90 95 98 and 99 . Note that 99 is effectively complete stereochemical purity.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the cleavage of the diasteriomeric adduct is accomplished by hydrolysis to yield an atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compound of formula I with enantiomeric excess ee selected from the ranges consisting of 90 95 98 and 99 .

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of providing enantiomeric recognition between stereoisomers of a chiral compound which comprises of adding an atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I to a solution containing a racemic or diasteriomeric mixture of the chiral compound.

In one embodiment of this aspect of the invention the chiral compound is an amine amino alcohol amino acid or alcohol.

In another embodiment of the invention the chiral amine is selected from the group consisting of 1 phenylethylamine 3 3 dimethylbutan 2 amine 3 dimethylbutan 2 amine cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 1 2 diphenylethane 1 2 diamine 1 1 diphenylpropan 2 amine 1 cyclohexylethanamine 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.11 heptan 3 amine and heptan 2 amine.

In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention the atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I is 2.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of conducting asymmetric synthesis of a compound which comprising of adding an atropisomeric 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene compounds of formula I .

In continuation of previously conducted studies with stereodynamic chiral biaryls and triaryls See a Wolf C. Ghebramariam B. T. 2002 13 1153 1156. b Wolf C. Tumambac G. E. 2003 107 815 817. c Tumambac G. E. Wolf C. 2004 69 2048 2055. d Tumambac G. E. Mei X. Wolf C. 2004 3850 3856. e Wolf C. 2005 34 595 608. f Tumambac G. E. Wolf C. 2005 70 2930 2938. g Wolf C. Xu H. 2007 48 6886 6889. and 1 8 diheteroarylnaphthalene derived sensors a Mei X. Wolf C. 2004 2078 2079. b Mei X. Wolf C. 2004 126 14736 14737. c Tumambac G. E. Wolf C. 2005 7 4045 4048. d Mei X. Martin R. M. Wolf C. 2006 71 2854 2861. e Liu S. Pestano J. P. C. Wolf C. 2008 73 4267 4270. f Mei X. Wolf C. 2006 47 7901 7904. g Wolf C. Liu S. Reinhardt B. C. 2006 4242 4244. h Mei X. Wolf C. 2006 128 13326 13327. 1 8 bis 3 formyl 4 hydroxyphenyl naphthalene 1 exhibiting two salicylaldehyde rings in the peri positions of naphthalene was prepared via Suzuki coupling of 1 8 diiodonaphthalene and boronic acid followed by deprotection of dialdehyde 3 Scheme 1 . See a Watkinson M. Whiting A. McAuliffe C. A. 1994 2141. b Ghosn M. W. Wolf C. 2009 131 16360 16361. 

Triaryl 1 undergoes fast rotation about the two aryl aryl bonds at room temperature which results in the interconversion of the enantiomeric anti isomers via the thermodynamically less stable meso syn intermediate. We realized that imine formation with amino alcohols disturbs this equilibrium and strongly favors population of a single diastereomer that is stabilized by intramolecular hydrogen bonding Scheme 2 . The diimine formed displays strong Cotton effects at high wavelengths and NMR and crystallographic analysis showed that the central chirality of the amino alcohol substrate induces a rigid axially chiral triaryl scaffold with perfect stereocontrol Condensation of 1 and R amino alcohols results in well defined amplification of asymmetric induction and the triaryl was found to adopt an M M conformation. The opposite sense of chiral induction was observed with S amino alcohols. We were able to demonstrate that the fast diimine formation which is complete within 5 minutes followed by in situ CD measurements allows time efficient determination of the absolute configuration and the enantiomeric purity of the substrate used. Similar results were obtained with amino acids. See Ghosn M. W. Wolf C. 2010 66 3989 3994. 

We envisioned that a less fluxional analogue of 1 would provide further insights into a the amplification of asymmetric induction b the effect of the intramolecular hydrogen bonding on the conformational stability of the diimine derivatives and c provide an entry to the potential use of these compounds in enantioselective recognition and catalysis. Since Clough and Roberts estimated the energy barrier to syn anti diastereomerization of 1 8 bis 2 methylphenyl naphthalene 4a as approximately 100 kJ mol Clough R. L. Roberts J. D. 1976 98 1018 1020. we expected that incorporation of methyl groups into the ortho positions of 1 would produce conformational isomers that are stable to interconversion and separable at room temperature Scheme 3 . We therefore decided to prepare 1 8 bis 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 formylphenyl naphthalene 5 exhibiting moderate bulk adjacent to the chiral axes which should suffice to isolate and characterize the stereoisomers of this atropisomer and its diimine derivatives while racemization and diastereomerization reactions could be studied at elevated temperatures.

Based on our experience with the synthesis and atropisomerization of chiral biaryls and triaryls E.g. Wolf C. Ghebramariam B. T. 2002 13 1153 1156. and 1 8 diheteroarylnaphthalene derived sensors E.g. Mei X. Wolf C. 2004 2078 2079. we found that incorporation of steric bulk proximate to the aryl aryl bonds in axially chiral 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes affords isolable enantiomers . We believe that this finding will have important implications to chiral ligand development for asymmetric catalysis recognition and other fields. We now wish to report the first example of an application of a conformationally stable axially chiral 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalene such as 2 and 5.

We began the synthesis of 5 with Suzuki coupling of 1 8 diiodonaphthalene and commercially available 4 methoxy 2 methylphenylboronic acid Scheme 4 . Initially we screened the effect of various catalysts solvents base and temperature to identify suitable reaction conditions for the construction of the sterically congested scaffold of 5. We were pleased to find that 1 8 bis 2 methyl 4 methoxyphenyl naphthalene 4 can be obtained in quantitative amounts using Pd PPh as catalyst and KPOas base in toluene. NMR analysis revealed that 4 was a 1 3 mixture of the syn and anti isomers. The Vilsmeier reaction with excess of phosphorous oxychloride and dimethyl formamide then furnished 1 8 bis 2 methyl 4 methoxy 5 formylphenyl naphthalene 8 with 99 yield in approximately the same diastereomeric ratio. Finally deprotection with boron tribromide gave 5 having a syn and anti isomer ratio of 1 4 in 77 yield.

The diastereomers of 8 were separated by column chromatography and the racemic anti isomer was converted to anti 5 and then to P P R R 9 and M M R R 9 by condensation with 2 equivalents of R 2 amino 1 propanol. The diimine formation proceeds with quantitative yields and is completed at room temperature within one hour. Chromatographic purification on silica gel then allowed isolation of the two diastereomeric products Scheme 5 . Heating of the diastereomeric mixture of 9 to establish thermodynamic equilibrium showed that the first eluted diimine corresponds to the more stable diastereomer see below. The sense of amplification of asymmetric induction observed with the diimines of 1 and CD and crystallographic analysis of 5 and 9 suggest that P P R R 9 is the thermodynamically favored atropisomer. Hydrolysis of P P R R 9 with aqueous HCl at 0 C. afforded enantiopure P P 5 in 85 yield with no trace of the syn diastereomer based on NMR analysis. The enantiopurity of 5 was confirmed by derivatization to the corresponding P P R R diimine with R 2 amino 1 propanol and NMR analysis did not show any signals of the diastereomeric M M R R isomer.

Based on our experience with stereolabile 1 which spontaneously adopts a single conformation upon diimine formation with enantiopure amino alcohols and the kinetic analysis of 4a by Clough and Roberts we investigated the possibility to convert the atropisomeric mixture of 9 to a single isomer upon heating. Such an asymmetric transformation of the first kind would generate the thermodynamically favored diimine isomer and thus facilitate the formation of enantiopure 5 with a theoretical yield of 100 and without the need for an elaborate chromatographic separation of the equimolar mixture of M M R R and P P R R 9. Several cases in which asymmetric transformation of the first kind was used to manipulate the diastereomeric ratio of axially chiral compounds have been reported. For example Meyers et al. found that the stereochemical outcome of the diastereoselective oxazoline mediated asymmetric Ullmann coupling of aryl bromides is significantly improved upon heating of the product mixture. E.g. Nelson T. D. Meyers A. I. 1993 34 3061 3062. This transformation favors the formation of the desired P atropisomer a key intermediate for the total synthesis of permethylated tellimagrandin. Nelson T. D. Meyers A. I. 1994 59 2577 2580. The same principle has been used for the deracemization of ortho dihydroxylated biaryl ligands VANOL and VAPOL E.g. Zhang Y. Yeung. S. M. Wu H. Heller D. P. Wu C. Wulff W. D. 2003 5 1813 1816. and for the preparation of the aglycon of vancomycin. E.g. Evans D. A. Wood M. R. Trotter B. W. Richardson T. I. Barrow J. C. Katz J. L. 1998 37 2700 2704. 

We realized that M M R R and P P R R 9 formed from racemic 5 and R 2 amino 1 propanol at 25 C. showed distinct NMR spectra for example two doublets at 1.26 and 1.40 ppm corresponding to the imino alcohol methyl groups . We therefore used NMR analysis to monitor the atropisomerization process. Upon heating to 60.0 C. the signals of the thermodynamically less favored diastereomer decreased in intensity and P P R R 9 with 98 de was obtained after 14 hours see .

We previously reported that condensation of stereolabile 1 and R 2 amino 1 propanol exclusively generates the M M R R stereoisomer which is the thermodynamically favored conformer due to stabilization by intramolecular hydrogen bonding and concomitant minimization of steric repulsion. Accordingly diimine formation with S 2 amino 1 propanol gave the P P S S enantiomer Scheme 2. These results are in perfect agreement with the asymmetric transformation of a mixture of M M R R and P P R R 9 towards the latter diastereomer. In analogy to the amplification of asymmetric induction observed with 1 the central chirality of the imino alcohol moiety in 9 controls the chiral amplification and induces the same sense of axial chirality. Note that the M M scaffold in 1 corresponds to the P P conformation in 5 and 9 because the presence of the ortho methyl groups in the latter results in a change in the CIP priorities. Since the atropisomerization occurs with more than 99 de it provides quantitative access to stereochemically pure 9 on the gram scale which can then be hydrolyzed without concomitant isomerization to enantiopure 5. Having developed a convenient procedure producing P P 5 we were able to prepare P P R R 9 and P P S S 9 the thermodynamically less stable diastereomer via condensation with either enantiomer of 2 amino 1 propanol. Analyzing the CD spectra of the enantiomeric M M R R and P P S S diimines of 1 we previously speculated that the Cotton effects are predominantly controlled by the sense of axial chirality while the chiral centers in the imino alcohol units were expected to have little or no effect on the chiroptical properties. Comparison of the CD spectra of P P 5 P P R R 9 and P P S S 9 all exhibiting the same sense of axial chirality now clearly shows that this assumption is correct . The three atropisomers exhibit a pronounced positive Cotton effect and the incorporation of the diimino alcohol units results in a significant red shift. Importantly the diastereomeric P P diimines of 9 show almost perfectly superimposable CD spectra which underscores the overwhelming or possibly exclusive contribution of the relative orientation of the two cofacial salicylidenimine rings to the observed CD activity. It is noteworthy that the CD amplitudes of the less stable P P S S 9 diastereomer are slightly diminished compared to P P R R 9. This is probably due to noticeable atropisomerization of P P S S 9 to its M M S S diastereomer i.e. it is likely that the CD spectra obtained with P P S S 9 and P P R R 9 only differ because the former was not perfectly diastereomerically pure. 

Slow evaporation of a solution of enantiopure P P 5 in chloroform gave single crystals suitable for X ray studies . As expected crystallographic analysis shows that the two salicylaldehyde rings reside in almost perfectly perpendicular orientation relative to the naphthalene backbone exhibiting a C symmetric structure with a torsion angle of 5.32 . The splaying between the two phenyl rings was determined as 20.51 which results in a centroidal phenyl to phenyl separation of 3.47 . Based on the enforced stacking of the proximate salicylaldehyde rings the positive Cotton effect and the large CD amplitudes of P P 5 can be attributed to strong exciton coupling of the cofacial chromophores.

We then turned our attention to the kinetic analysis of 5 Scheme 6 . Interconversion of the stereoisomers of 5 requires one salicylaldehyde ring to rotate about the chiral naphthyl phenyl axis. Accordingly the edge of the rotating ring points towards the adjacent phenyl moiety in the transition state. In general this process can proceed via two T shaped transition states having the methyl group of the rotating phenyl ring either directed towards or away from the other phenyl ring. Wolf C. Ed. Dynamic Stereochemistry of Chiral Compounds RSC Cambridge 2008 pp. 89. The latter orientation is expected to afford significantly less steric hindrance and is therefore the favored interconversion pathway.

A solution of P P 5 in chloroform was stirred at 45.0 C. and small aliquots were taken at one hour intervals and diluted to 5.0 10M for CD analysis. After 10 hours the CD signals disappeared indicating complete racemization . The syn anti ratio of 5 at 45.0 C. in chloroform at equilibrium was determined by H NMR spectroscopy as 23.4 76.6. The observed ratio corresponds to a difference in Gibbs free energy of the anti and syn isomers G of 1.3 kJ mol according to the Boltzmann equation 1 . The factor 2 in equation 1 accounts for the two enantiomeric anti isomers of 5. 2 exp 1 

Having determined the syn anti ratio and thus the equilibrium constant for the isomerization of 5 we were able to determine the rate constants for the reversible interconversion steps kand k as 6.308 10sfor the anti syn and as 1.038 10sfor the syn anti interconversion respectively. As expected the observed isomerizations proved to obey first order kinetics. Using the Eyring equation the Gibbs activation energy G for the atropisomerization of 5 was calculated as 103.7 102.4 kJ mol for the conversion of the anti syn to the syn anti isomer see SI .

The analysis of the atropisomerization of 9 is more complicated and involves four different rate constants Scheme 7 . Because CD analysis does not provide quantitative information about individual diastereomer concentrations we used NMR spectroscopy to monitor the conversion of P P S S 9 which was prepared by condensation of P P 5 with 2 equivalents of S 2 amino 1 propanol to the thermodynamically stable atropisomer M M S S 9 via the intermediate M P S S isomer.

A solution of P P S S 9 in deuterated chloroform was heated to 58.0 C. and the isomerization was studied by integration of the benzylic H NMR signals of the three diastereomers see SI for details . Equilibrium was reached after 2 days and the atropisomeric ratio was determined as 94.4 3.9 1.7 M M S S P P S S M P S S . Accordingly the thermodynamically favored M M S S atropisomer is more stable than the syn intermediate by 11.2 kJ mol while conversion of the latter to P P S S 9 is driven by only 2.4 kJ mol. Comparison of the relative amounts of the two anti isomers of 9 reveals a difference in Gibbs free energy of 8.8 kJ mol. Crystallographic analysis of syn 9 and P P R R 10 shows that these results can be explained by selective intramolecular hydrogen bonding and concomitant optimization of steric repulsion in M M S S 9 vide infra. Following Vriens mathematical treatment for two consecutive reversible reactions and curve fitting we then determined the individual rotational energy barriers see SI for details . The interconversion of P P S S 9 to the syn diastereomer has a Gibbs activation energy G of 108.7 kJ mol. The intermediate syn isomer undergoes diastereomerization to the two anti conformers and the corresponding activation energies were calculated as 106.3 kJ mol G and 104.5 kJ mol G . As expected from the asymmetric transformation experiments discussed above the energy barrier for the conversion of M M S S 9 to the syn isomer G is significantly higher and was determined as 115.7 kJ mol. To confirm these data we analyzed the initial decay of P P S S 9 at low conversion less than 2 completion which can be approximately treated as an irreversible first order reaction see Experimental Section . We thus obtained a rotational energy barrier G of 109.2 kJ mol which is in very good agreement with the value determined by curve fitting.

Attempts to grow a single crystal of P P R R or M M S S 9 for crystallographic analysis were unsuccessful. But we were able to obtain a crystal structure of the syn isomer . This atropisomer has a torsion angle of 18.33 and the splaying between the two phenyl rings is 21.09 corresponding to a centroidal phenyl to phenyl separation of 3.52 . The steric repulsion between the two salicylidenimine rings explains the low relative stability compared to the P P R R or the M M S S isomer.

To better understand the overwhelming thermodynamic stability of the P P R R and the M M S S configuration we decided to prepare the corresponding diimine using R 2 amino 3 methyl 1 butanol see SI for details on the synthesis CD analysis etc . Fortunately a crystal of P P R R 10 was obtained by crystallization from a hexane solution . Crystallographic analysis revealed a torsion angle of 18.17 and splaying between the two phenyl rings was calculated as only 13.46 resulting in a centroidal phenyl to phenyl separation of 3.33 . The significantly reduced splaying compared to syn 9 is quite remarkable and results from reduced steric repulsion between the imino alcohol units and additional hydrogen bonding between the alcohol groups and the phenol units in the opposite salicylidenimine ring. The arrangement of the two salicylidenimines in P P R R 10 allows formation of a total of four intramolecular hydrogen bonds the phenol groups also undergo hydrogen bonding with the adjacent imines while the steric bulk of the imino alcohol moieties is placed outside of this ring structure in the least crowded positions. The C N HOCand the COH OChydrogen bond lengths are 1.861 and 2.178 respectively.

In analogy to the results obtained with 9 we observed quantitative asymmetric transformation of the first kind with 10 which can be used to either prepare pure M M S S or P P R R atropisomers of these diimines. The kinetic and thermodynamic analyses of the unidirectional atropisomerization process of 9 and 10 discussed above and in the SI are in perfect agreement with the crystallographic data showing distinct stabilization of the P P R R isomer due to intramolecular hydrogen bonding and minimized steric repulsion between the imine moieties.

We also found that P P 5 can be used for the kinetic resolution of the enantiomers of 2 amino 1 propanol. Diimine formation of the enantiopure dialdehyde 5 and 4 equivalents of the racemic substrate at room temperature followed by extraction after 5 hours allowed recovery of the remaining amino alcohol in 47 yield. Chiral HPLC analysis showed that the S amino alcohol was enriched to 54 cc which proves the expected favored formation of P P R R 9 see Experimental Section .

In conclusion we have synthesized the first examples of axially chiral 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes that are stable to racemization at room temperature. The incorporation of two ortho substituted phenol moieties into a rigid C symmetric scaffold that is reminiscent of the successful BINOL motif has been of general interest due to potential applications in asymmetric catalysis and enantioselective sensing for a long time. Stereochemical analysis showed that the anti stereoisomers of 1 8 bis 2 methyl 4 hydroxy 5 formylphenyl naphthalene 5 and its diimine analogues 9 and 10 are significantly more stable than the corresponding syn isomer. Slow syn anti interconversion obeying reversible first order kinetics of 5 9 and 10 occurs at elevated temperatures and this provides a convenient entry towards enantiopure bisphenols that can be prepared on the gram scale via asymmetric transformation of the first kind. Spectroscopic NMR and CD analyses supported by crystallography of syn and anti 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes showed that the incorporation of two imino alcohol units into the triaryl scaffold controls the outcome of the unidirectional atropisomerization with literally perfect stereocontrol resulting from a unique intramolecular hydrogen bonding motif and concomitant reduction of steric repulsion. While the stereochemical bias of the atropisomers studied originates from the central chirality of the incorporated amino alcohol units the chiroptical properties are solely determined by the sense of axial chirality. Chiral recognition studies using 1 8 bisphenolnaphthalenes as UV CD and fluorescence sensors are currently underway in our laboratories.

All reagents and solvents were used without further purification. Reactions were carried out under nitrogen atmosphere and under anhydrous conditions. 1 8 Diiodonaphthalene was prepared from 1 8 diaminonaphthalene as described in the literature. House H. O. Koepsella D. G. Campbel W. J. J. Org. Chem. 1972 37 1003 1011. Products were purified by flash chromatography on SiO particle size 0.032 0.063 mm . NMR spectra were obtained at 400 MHz H NMR and 100 MHz C NMR using CDClas solvent. Chemical shifts are reported in ppm relative to TMS. For CD analysis samples were diluted to 5.0 10M with anhydrous chloroform and the instrument was purged with nitrogen for 20 minutes. Spectra were collected between 245 and 540 nm at 25.0 C. with a standard sensitivity of 100 mdeg a data pitch of 0.5 nm a band width of 1 nm a scanning speed of 500 nm sand a response of 0.5 s using a quartz cuvette 1 cm path length . The data were adjusted by baseline correction and binomial smoothing.

A solution of 1 8 diiodonaphthalene 1.70 g 4.5 mmol 2 methyl 4 methoxyphenylboronic acid 2 2.20 g 13.4 mmol Pd PPh 0.78 g 0.67 mmol and KPO 4.30 g 20.1 mmol in 50 mL toluene was stirred at 100 C. for 18 hours. The resulting mixture was allowed to come to room temperature quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl hexanes 2 3 afforded 1.65 g 4.5 mmol 99 of off white crystals containing syn and anti isomers of 7 in a ratio of 1 3.

Phosphorous oxychloride 2.9 mL 31.2 mmol and dimethyl formamide 2.4 mL 31.2 mmol were stirred in 10 mL of chloroform at room temperature for one hour. Then 7 0.60 g 1.6 mmol was added and the mixture was refluxed at 90 C. for 48 hours. It was then cooled to 0 C. carefully quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl EtOAc 25 1 afforded 0.69 g 1.6 mmol 99 of syn anti 8 as a white powder. The diastereomers of 8 can be separated using flash chromatography with gradient elution starting with dichloromethane to collect the anti isomer 73 then increasing the polarity to DCM EtOAc 15 1 to recover the syn diastereomer 27 .

To a solution of 1 8 bis 2 methyl 4 methoxy 5 formylphenyl naphthalene 8 0.78 g 1.9 mmol in 35 mL of anhydrous CHClat 0 C. BBr 11.8 mL 11.8 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for six hours. The reaction was carefully quenched with isopropyl alcohol followed by addition of water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl hexanes 20 1 afforded 0.58 g of 5 1.5 mmol 77 as a white solid. The anti syn ratio was determined as 20 1 by H NMR spectroscopy. Enantiopure anti 5 was obtained via formation of 9 or 10 as described below and hydrolysis or by asymmetric transformation of the first kind and subsequent hydrolysis see SI .

To racemic 5 67.0 mg 0.17 mmol dissolved in 8 mL of CHClover molecular sieves 4 beads 8 12 mesh 2 equivalents of R 2 amino 1 propanol 25.4 mg 0.34 mmol were added and the mixture was allowed to stir for one hour at room temperature. The mixture was then extracted with water dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Chromatographic purification using EtOAc EtOH 99.5 0.5 as mobile phase allowed the isolation of the two diastereomeric products P P R R 9 and M M R R 9 as yellow solids in quantitative yield.

Pure P P R R 9 43.2 mg 0.08 mmol was dissolved in 5 mL of 1 M NaOH and 1 mL of aqueous HCl 12.1 M was added dropwise at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to stir for 10 minutes. The resulting suspension was extracted with CHCland the combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl afforded enantiopure P P 5 28.5 mg 0.07 mmol in 85 yield with no sign of the syn diastereomer based on NMR analysis. The enantiopurity of 5 was confirmed by derivatization to the corresponding diimine using R 2 amino 1 propanol. The NMR spectrum of the condensation product showed the presence of a single diastereomer.

To racemic 5 200 mg 0.51 mmol dissolved in 15 mL of CHClover molecular sieves 4 beads 8 12 mesh 2 equivalents of R 2 amino 3 methyl 1 butanol 104 mg 1.02 mmol were added and the mixture was allowed to stir at 70 C. for 16 h. Upon completion of the asymmetric transformation the mixture was cooled to room temperature extracted with water dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatographic purification using CHCl EtOAc 1 1 as mobile phase gave P P R R 10 285 mg 0.50 mmol in 99.8 yield.

The hydrolysis of P P R R 10 to P P 5 was conducted as described above with P P R R 9 and gave enantiopure P P 5 in 80 yield.

Racemic 5 10.14 mg 0.026 mmol was dissolved in 1.0 mL of CDCl. Molecular sieves 4 beads 8 12 mesh were added and the mixture was stirred with 2 equivalents of R 2 amino 1 propanol 3.84 mg 0.051 mmol for one hour at 25 C. After the diimine formation was complete H NMR analysis indicated the presence of two diastereomers evidenced for example by the two doublets at 1.26 and 1.40 ppm. . Upon heating to 58.0 C. the signals of the thermodynamically less favored diastereomer decreased in intensity. In agreement with the amplification of asymmetric induction observed upon diimine formation of 1 8 bis 3 formyl 4 hydroxyphenyl naphthalene with R 2 amino 1 propanol it is assumed that the central chirality of amino alcohol controls the stereoselective outcome of this atropisomerization process. The mixture is almost entirely converted to the more stable diastereomer after 14 hours .

Pure P P R R 9 43.2 mg 0.08 mmol was dissolved in 5 mL of 1 M NaOH and 1 mL of aqueous HCl 12.1 M was added dropwise at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to stir for 10 minutes. The resulting suspension was extracted with CHCland the combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl afforded enantiopure P P 5 28.5 mg 0.07 mmol in 85 yield with no sign of the syn diastereomer based on NMR analysis. The enantiopurity of 5 was confirmed by derivatization to the corresponding diimine using R 2 amino 1 propanol. The NMR spectrum of the condensation product showed the presence of a single diastereomer.

The diimine P P R R 10 was prepared in quantitative yields from racemic 5 and R 2 amino 3 methyl 1 butanol using the same asymmetric transformation protocol as described above for 9. The hydrolysis of P P R R 10 to P P 5 was conducted as described above with P P R R 9 and gave enantiopure P P 5 in 80 yield. The CD spectra of P P R R 10 and P P 5 are shown in .

The unidirectional atropisomerization of P P S S 10 to M M S S 10 was monitored by CD spectroscopy and is in perfect agreement with the results obtained with 9. Enantiopure P P 5 10.14 mg 0.026 mmol was dissolved in 1.0 mL of CDCl. Molecular sieves 4 beads 8 12 mesh were added and the mixture was stirred with 2 equivalents of S 2 amino 3 methyl 1 butanol 5.52 mg 0.051 mmol for one hour at 25.0 C. The mixture was then heated to 50.0 C. Aliquots were taken at one hour intervals and diluted to 5.0 10M with anhydrous CHClfor CD analysis. After 24 hours the CD signal indicated almost complete diasteriomerization .

Enantiopure P P 5 10.14 mg 0.026 mmol was dissolved in 1.0 mL of CDCl. Molecular sieves 4 beads 8 12 mesh were added and the mixture was stirred with 2 equivalents of S 2 amino 1 propanol 3.84 mg 0.051 mmol for one hour at 25 C. The mixture was then heated to 58.0 C. and H NMR spectra were collected at short intervals to follow the decay of P P S S 9 same signals as M M R R 9 before the appearance of any M M S S 9 same signals as P P R R 9 . By plotting the mol fraction of P P S S 9 versus time the initial rate of the reaction can be obtained from the slope of the fitted line . Curve fitting to y A1x B was performed using OriginPro 8.1 with A1 0.00245 and B 0.8634 A2 0.351 with R 0.9929. The initial rate constant denoted kwas determined as 4.083 10s G 109.2 kJ mol.

As described above enantiopure P P 5 10.12 mg 0.026 mmol was dissolved in 1.0 mL of CDCl treated with 2 equivalents of S 2 amino 1 propanol 3.84 mg 0.051 mmol for one hour at 25 C. and then heated to 58.0 C. H NMR spectra were collected at different intervals to monitor the change in the intensity of the resolved methyl signals of P P S S 9 1.69 ppm M P S S 9 1.81 ppm and M M S S 9 1.66 ppm until equilibrium was reached.

The relative amounts of the three stereoisomers at equilibrium were determined as 94.4 3.9 1.7 M M S S P P S S M P S S in CDClat 58.0 C. The individual rate constants were then calculated as described in the SI.

Enantiopure P P 5 15.89 mg 0.040 mmol was dissolved in 1.0 mL of anhydrous CHCl. Molecular sieves 4 beads 8 12 mesh were added and the mixture was stirred with 4 equivalents of racemic 2 amino 1 propanol 12.04 mg 0.160 mmol for 5 hours at 25 C. The mixture was then extracted with water and the aqueous layer was freeze dried to recover the unreacted amino alcohol. The crude material 6.02 mg 0.080 mmol was dissolved in 1.5 mL of chloroform and treated with benzoyl chloride 117.8 mg 0.801 mmol in the presence of triethylamine 162.2 mg 1.60 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir for 16 hours then quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl EtOAc 9 1 afforded 11 22.0 mg 0.074 mmol as a colorless oil in 93 . The ee was determined as 54 by HPLC on Chiralpak AD using hexanes ethanol 90 10 as mobile phase. As expected formation of P P R R 9 is favored and comparison of the HPLC chromatogram with separately prepared enantiopure samples of 11 proved that 77 of the unreacted amino alcohol had S configuration.

Single crystal X ray analysis was performed at 100 K using a Siemens platform diffractometer with graphite monochromated Mo K radiation 0.71073 . Data were integrated and corrected using the Apex 2 program. The structures were solved by direct methods and refined with full matrix least square analysis using SHELX 97 2 software. Non hydrogen atoms were refined with anisotropic displacement parameters.

A crystal of enantiopure P P 5 was obtained by slow evaporation of a solution of 5.0 mg of P P 5 in 3 mL of CHCl. Crystal structure data for P P 5 Formula CHO M 396.43 crystal dimensions 0.15 0.10 0.05 mm tetragonal space group P4 a 11.7955 17 b 11.7955 17 c 28.4769 40 V 3962.10 Z 1 1.3290 g cm.

The slow evaporation of a solution of 5.0 mg of 5 and 2 equivalents of R 2 amino 1 propanol in 3 mL of CHClafforded single crystals of syn 9. Crystal structure data for syn 9 Formula CHNO M 510.62 crystal dimensions 0.120 0.10 0.07 mm monoclinic space group P2 c a 22.3400 21 b 6.8469 6 c 17.6753 16 100.956 1 V 2654.33 Z 4 1.2726 g cm.

A crystal of P P R R 10 was obtained by crystallization of 100.0 mg of P P R R 10 from 15 mL of hexanes. Crystal structure data for P P R R 10 Formula CHNO M 566.73 crystal dimensions 0.10 0.10 0.05 mm orthorhombic space group P2 a 10.8469 44 b 21.3655 86 c 13.6440 55 V 3161.99 Z 2 1.1903 g cm.

All reagents and solvents were used without further purification. All reactions were carried out under nitrogen atmosphere and anhydrous conditions. Products were purified by flash chromatography on SiO particle size 0.032 0.063 mm . NMR spectra were obtained at 400 MHz H NMR and 100 MHz C NMR using CDClas solvent. Chemical shifts are reported in ppm relative to TMS.

A solution of 1 8 dibromonaphthalene 1.29 g 4.5 mmol 2 methyl 4 methoxyphenylboronic acid 3 2.24 g 13.5 mmol Pd PPh 0.78 g 0.68 mmol and KPO 4.30 g 20.0 mmol in 50 mL toluene was stirred at 110 C. for 18 hours. The resulting mixture was allowed to come to room temperature quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl hexanes 2 3 afforded 1.66 g 4.5 mmol 99 of off white crystals containing syn and anti isomers of 4.

To a solution of 4 0.18 g 0.49 mmol in 8 mL of acetic acid benzyltrimethylammonium dichloroiodate 0.38 g 1.08 mmol and zinc dichloride 0.15 g 1.08 mmol dissolved in 8 mL of acetic acid were added dropwise over 30 minutes and the mixture was stirred at 55 C. for 20 hours. It was then cooled to 0 C. carefully quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were washed with 1 M sodium thiosulfate dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel hexanes CHCl3 1 afforded 0.20 g 0.33 mmol 67 of 5a as a white solid.

A solution of 5a 0.20 g 0.32 mmol phenylboronic acid 0.12 g 0.96 mmol Pd PPh 0.055 g 0.048 mmol and KPO 0.31 g 1.44 mmol in 5 mL of toluene was stirred at 110 C. for 18 hours. The resulting mixture was allowed to come to room temperature quenched with water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl hexanes 1 2 afforded 0.14 g 0.28 mmol 87 of 6 as a white solid.

To a solution of 1 8 bis 2 methyl 4 methoxy 5 phenylphenyl naphthalene 6 0.14 g 0.28 mmol in 10 mL of anhydrous CHClat 0 C. BBr 1.67 mL 1.67 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for sixteen hours at room temperature. The reaction was carefully quenched with isopropyl alcohol followed by addition of water and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel CHCl afforded 0.12 g of 2 0.25 mmol 89 as a white solid.

A solution of 6 0.17 g 0.35 mmol N Boc L tryptophan 0.24 g 0.77 mmol N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 0.17 g 0.81 mmol and DMAP 0.05 g 0.42 mmol was stirred in 5 mL of dichloromethane for 16 hours at room temperature. The resulting suspension was dried and subjected to gradient flash chromatography on silica gel dichloromethane ethyl acetate 70 1 to 60 1 to afford 0.18 g 0.17 mmol 49 and 0.16 g 0.15 mmol 42 of the first and second eluting diastereomers of 7 as white solids.

A suspension of the first eluting diastereomer of 7 0.04 g 0.038 mmol in 3.8 M KOH 10 mL 4 1 ethanol water was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. The resulting mixture was quenched with 0.5 mL of concentrated HCl at 0 C. It was then extracted with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude was then subjected to gradient flash chromatography on silica gel dichloromethane to afford 0.019 g 0.038 mmol 99 of enantiopure levorotatory 2 as a white solid. The same procedure was used to obtain dextrorotatory 2 by hydrolyzing the second eluting diastereomer of 7.

We found that the enantiomers and the meso syn isomer of 2 can be resolved by HPLC on Chiralpak AD or other means see SI . Preparative isolation of the levorotatory enantiomer enabled us to monitor the racemization kinetics at 77.1 C. by chiral HPLC separation of cooled aliquots . The syn anti ratio of 2 at equilibrium was determined as 0.46 and the reversible first order reaction kinetics were simulated and analyzed according to Vriens. Vriens G. N. 1954 669 671. The energy barrier to conversion of the trans isomer to the syn intermediate G was determined as 110.0 kJ mol. As expected the Gibbs activation energy for the reversed process G is slightly lower and was calculated as 107.7 kJ mol see SI .

The stereoisomers of 2 are separable on a CHIRALPAK AD column using hexanes isopropyl alcohol 9 1 as mobile phase . The first eluting enantiomer elutes at 7.2 min while the second elutes at 8.9 min. The syn intermediate elutes last at 10.5 min. The absorption coefficient of the syn diastereomer was determined as 1124216.92 unit area mol while that for the anti isomer was 1607421.75 unit area mol.

To avoid this tedious separation process several chiral auxiliaries were examined to allow for the large scale separation of enantiomers of 2 through the formation of entroids erie complexes. After screening several chiral auxiliaries N Boc L tryptophan was used to esterify racemic 2 and was followed by the chromatographic separation of the resulting diastereomers Scheme 2 . Finally the diastereomers were hydrolyzed to regenerate the free phenols in their enantiomerically pure forms.

The CD instrument was purged with nitrogen for 20 minutes. Spectra were collected at room temperature between 270 and 390 nm with a standard sensitivity of 100 mdeg a data pitch of 0.5 nm a band width of 1 nm a scanning speed of 500 nm sand a response of 0.5 s using a quartz cuvette 1 cm path length . Polarimetric measurements at 21.5 C. allowed for the determination of the specific rotation as 354 for the first eluting enantiomer and 355 for the second. The CD spectra of the enantiomers of 2 are shown in . The effects on the CD spectra of the enantiomers of 2 upon treatment of sodium ter butoxide is shown in .

Several solutions of the levorotatory enantiomer of 1 1.02 10M isopropyl alcohol were prepared in separate vials and stirred at 77.1 C. 0.4 C. . The temperature was continuously monitored using a calibrated digital thermometer. At various times the stereoisomeric composition was determined using a rapidly cooled vial. From this vial 50 L were diluted with 1 mL of hexanes IPA 9 1 and then analyzed by HPLC on CHIRALPAK AD and UV detection at 240 nm. see 

Having determined the stability of 2 to rotation about the chiral axes at room temperature we decided to investigate the three dimensional structure of this atropisomer. A single crystal of anti 2 was obtained by slow evaporation of a dichloromethane solution. Crystallographic analysis revealed that the two cofacial phenol rings are almost perfectly aligned due to a torsion angle of only 0.28 . The separation between the centroids of the two phenol rings which are splayed by 19.48 was determined as 3.5 indicating substantial x overlap .

Single crystal X ray analysis was performed at 100 K using a Siemens platform diffractometer with graphite monochromated Mo K radiation 0.71073 . Data were integrated and corrected using the Apex 2 program. The structures were solved by direct methods and refined with full matrix least square analysis using SHELX 97 2 software. Non hydrogen atoms were refined with anisotropic displacement parameters.

A crystal of 2 was obtained by slow evaporation of a solution of 10.0 mg of 2 in 5 mL of CHCl. Crystal structure data for 2 Formula CHO M 492.61 crystal dimensions 0.15 0.15 0.15 mm monoclinic space group P21 c a 11.3010 23 b 11.8081 24 c 19.1846 40 96.897 3 V 2541.53 Z 4 1.2872 g cm. see 

We now have found that 2 can be used for enantioselective recognition of a wide range of amines. The CD spectra of the enantiomers of 2 are shown in . Upon addition of a sufficiently strong base the corresponding bisphenolate having a remarkably different CD spectrum is formed. Addition of enantiomers of chiral amines then regenerates the original CD spectrum. This proceeds with high stereoselectivity and therefore allows enantioselective CD sensing of the amine used. Proof of concept data were obtained with different analytes including 1 phenylethylamine shows titration curve with 2 shows titration curve with 2 . For CD analysis of amines with chiral metal complexes see a Nieto S. Lynch V. M. Anslyn E. V. Kim H. Chin J. Org. Lett. 2008 10 5167. b Nieto S. Lynch V. M. Anslyn E. V. Kim H. Chin J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008 130 9232. c Nieto S. Dragna J. M. Anslyn E. V. Chem. Eur. J. 2010 16 227. 

The following conditions have been optimized in terms of reaction time solvent concentration and equivalents. Prior to each use the CD instrument was purged with nitrogen for 20 minutes. Spectra were collected between 240 and 600 nm with a standard sensitivity of 100 mdeg a data pitch of 0.5 nm a band width of 0.5 nm a scanning speed of 1000 nm sand a response of 0.5 s using a quartz cuvette 1 cm path length . The concentration of 2 was 9.45 10M in ACN. To 2000 L of 2 4 equivalents of NaBuO 0.521 M in DMSO were added to generate the bisphenoxide of 2 which was titrated with several amine substrates until the original bisphenol CD spectrum was recovered. Ellipticities at 290 nm are then plotted against the concentration of added amine enantiomers. Data obtained with R enantiomers are represented by blue triangles and those obtained with S enantiomer are shown in red see 

In conclusion chiral bisphenol 2 has been prepared and used for enantioselective sensing of a wide range of amines. This study shows the potential of this class of compounds for chiral recognition and it points to the use in asymmetric catalysis.

Having thus described in detail various embodiments of the present invention it is to be understood that the invention defined by the above paragraphs is not to be limited to particular details set forth in the above description as many apparent variations thereof are possible without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention.

