---

title: Method and apparatus for mobile assisted event detection and area of interest determination
abstract: An approach is provided for determining the existence of an event based on information collected from mobile devices. Reception is caused, at least in part, of media from a plurality of mobile devices. A plurality of event vectors for the respective mobile devices is determined. Each of the event vectors includes geo-location information and timing information of the corresponding mobile device. The existence of the event is determined based on the received media and the event vectors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09049605&OS=09049605&RS=09049605
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09049605
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20121210
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 618 752 filed Nov. 15 2009 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MOBILE ASSISTED EVENT DETECTION AND AREA OF INTEREST DETERMINATION the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. Important differentiators in the industry are application and network services that offer entertainment and location services. In particular advertisements such as website banners are utilized to disseminate information about upcoming events. Traditionally these advertisements are limited to events that are known at the time the advertisements were created.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for automatically determining events based on information collected from mobile devices.

According to one embodiment a method comprises causing at least in part reception of media from a plurality of mobile devices. The method also comprises determining a plurality of event vectors for the respective mobile devices. Each of the event vectors includes geo location information and timing information of the corresponding mobile device. The method further comprises determining existence of an event based on the received media and the event vectors.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to cause at least in part reception of media from a plurality of mobile devices. The apparatus is also caused to determine a plurality of event vectors for the respective mobile devices. Each of the event vectors includes geo location information and timing information of the corresponding mobile device. The apparatus is further caused to determine existence of an event based on the received media and the event vectors.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to cause at least in part reception of media from a plurality of mobile devices. The apparatus is also caused to determine a plurality of event vectors for the respective mobile devices. Each of the event vectors includes geo location information and timing information of the corresponding mobile device. The apparatus is further caused to determine existence of an event based on the received media and the event vectors.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part reception of media from a plurality of mobile devices. The apparatus also comprises means for determining a plurality of event vectors for the respective mobile devices. Each of the event vectors includes geo location information and timing information of the corresponding mobile device. The apparatus further comprises means for determining existence of an event based on the received media and the event vectors.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for determining the existence of an event based on information collected from mobile devices are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

In recognition of this problem a system of introduces the capability to automatically determine the existence of an event based on information collected from mobile devices e.g. user equipment UE . In one embodiment the UEs capture media e.g. photos video clips etc. and transmit the media content and related information e.g. location information to an event platform via a communication network . The media can be captured for instance to explicitly transmit information about the event or may be captured for other purposes e.g. sightseeing general interest etc. but then co opted for use in the approach described herein. The media is analyzed to determine information about the existence of an event which can be transmitted to the UEs 

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. . The UE may include a sensor module to determine the information e.g. location of the UE . The sensor module may be utilized by one or more applications e.g. media applications event applications etc. . The system has been simplified for to include three UEs to capture the event however it is contemplated that any multiple number of UEs e.g. more than two UEs can be utilized in capturing information about the event.

The UEs may utilize respective media applications to capture media of an event as well as the location via a location sensor of the sensor module and other information about the UE during the event. In certain embodiments the event may include a static event e.g. a normal occurrence such as media capture around a monument a sudden incident e.g. a spontaneous occurrence such as an accident or an impromptu folk festival that users determine is a good reason to capture media a special event e.g. an occurrence that is indicated to be more important by the event platform based on certain criteria a combination thereof or the like. Once media is captured the UE may form an event vector regarding the event to transmit to the event platform . In certain embodiments an event vector is one or more data items or information e.g. media location date time etc. that may be an indicator of an event or the occurrence of an event from the perspective of a single UE . The event platform can automatically determine or infer information on the occurrence of an event or other event related information by evaluating one or more of the event vectors received from one or more UEs . By way of example an event vector is transmitted as a data structure of information. In some embodiments the event vector includes geo location information about the UE timing information e.g. when the media was captured current time etc. magnetometer information e.g. the relationship of a face of the UE to the magnetic north pole to determine a heading or orientation of the UE that may be associated with a location of the event accelerometer information e.g. to determine the angle of the face of the UE from the ground which may also used to determine the location of the event an identifier distinguishing the UE the captured media a combination thereof etc. The event vector may be utilized to determine one or more focal points of a plurality of UEs by using the location and orientation of each of multiple UEs e.g. the intersection of the orientation or views of the UEs . This focus may be determined to be a center or other important point of the event. In one scenario the event vector is separated from the media to conserve bandwidth when transmitting the event vector to the event platform . Under this scenario the event vectors may be transmitted in real time or near real time while the actual media is streamed or transmitted at a later time. Moreover a media application may include options as to participate or not participate in a service provided by the event platform to determine the existence of events and or publish media of the user of the application . In certain embodiments to encourage participation the user may be recognized or compensated if the user s media is presented to other users.

The event platform may receive the event vectors and the media from UEs and store the information in one or more databases. The event vectors can be stored in an event data database . The event data database may be utilized to store current and historical data about events. Moreover the event platform may have access to additional historical data e.g. historical sensor data or additional historical information about a region that may or may not be associated with events in a historical data database . The events or historical data may be sorted using the geo location of the UEs or a determined geo location of the event. Further the media may be stored in a published content database that may be used to store current and prior event media and publish the content to other UEs e.g. UE utilizing an event application . The event platform may additionally extract an identifier associated with a particular UE from a received event vector and associate the user and or UE with a profile in a user profile database . The user profile database may be utilized to collect historical event information about a particular UE or user. This data may be used in heuristically determining the occurrence of an event.

The event vectors can then be processed by the event platform to determine the existence of one or more events associated with the UEs . A corollary can be made that if multiple users are capturing media directed at a location there is a greater probability that there is an event happening at the location. The event vectors may then be compared with historical events and or other historical information e.g. a classification such as rural or urban of a region associated with the location may be utilized to make general determinations about events or utilization of other sensor information that has not been classified as an event that have occurred in one or more regions associated with the location as further detailed in to heuristically determine whether an event is currently taking place at the location. Further the event vectors may be utilized to determine an area of extent of the event as well as structural information e.g. a physical information such as whether the event is occurring in the sky if the event is on a stage facing a particular direction etc. of the event as further detailed in . Once the existence of one or more events has been determined the event platform may transmit event information to UEs that are monitoring for such event or information or are nearby the location of the respective events.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like.

By way of example the UE and event platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UE and event platform interact according to a client server model. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

The event platform interface is used by the runtime module to communicate with an event platform . In some embodiments the interface is used to upload media and event vectors for processing at the event platform . Further the event platform interface may be utilized by an event application to receive event information from the event platform . In certain embodiments the event information includes a determination that an event is occurring an extent of the event a face of the event a structure of the event a type of the event or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments the face of the event is the direction of a focus point of the event points towards. As such the face of the event may be the outward presentation of the event that the UEs capture media regarding the event from. The location module magnetometer module accelerometer module and media module may be utilized to create event vectors to transmit to the event platform .

Moreover in certain embodiments UEs may additionally communicate with other UEs and devices via the communication interface . In these scenarios information may be transmitted between UEs via a peer to peer network topology. The UE communicates with other UEs utilizing a media application or an event application based on proximity to the other UEs . In another embodiment a first UE may utilize a second UE as a conduit to communicate with the event platform . In this scenario the second UE may collect information e.g. event vectors and or media from the first UE and upload the information to the event platform . In one embodiment the second UE that acts as a conduit for the first UE is a master peer UE that has been designated by the event application or the event platform . By way of example the master peer UE collects media event vectors and or other event related information from other neighboring or peer UEs to upload to the event platform . In this embodiment the UEs that are not a master peer do not communicate directly with the event platform . This may be useful when there is a crowd of UEs which may regularly occur during an event and the network is a bottleneck or congested because of the crowd. The designation of a master peer UE enables the event platform to advantageously reduce the number of communication links between the event platform and the community of UEs reporting on one or more events thereby reducing the overall resource burden e.g. network bandwidth available communication channels etc. on the communication network .

In one embodiment the location module can determine a user s location. The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as a global positioning system GPS assisted GPS A GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . The location module may be utilized by the media application to capture location information as part of an event vector to transmit to the event platform .

The magnetometer module can include an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera of the media module can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer is stored in an event vector when media is captured. This directional information may be correlated with the location information of the UE and other UEs to determine a focus point e.g. where multiple vectors associated with the determined locations cross paths for the event .

Further the accelerometer module may include an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In one embodiment vertical directional data obtained from an accelerometer is stored in the event vector when media is captured.

Moreover the altimeter module may be utilized to determine the altitude of the UE during the event. Altitude information may be included in the event vector to determine a vantage of the user while capturing media. Moreover altitude information may be used to determine events happening at a single longitude and latitude location but at a different elevation e.g. on a roof of a building edge of a cliff etc. . In certain embodiments the altimeter module includes a pressure altimeter that determines barometric pressure to determine the altitude. In another embodiment the UE may include a temperature sensor that is used to infer altitude based on the ambient temperature e.g. temperature decreases at known rate with increasing altitude . In addition or alternatively GPS information may be utilized to determine altitude information.

Media can be captured using a media capture device associated with the media module . A media capture device may include a camera an audio recorder a video camera a combination thereof etc. In one embodiment visual media is captured in the form of an image or a series of images. The media module can obtain the image from a camera and embed the image within an event vector also containing location data timing data and orientation data. Moreover the event vector may additionally include air pressure sensor data temperature sensor data other such sensor data or a combination thereof.

Information that is collected to transmit to the event platform may be controlled and viewed using the user interface which can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component e.g. a verbal instructions a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface microphone camera a scroll and click interface a button interface etc. Further the user may input a request to start a media application and utilize the user interface while capturing media. Additionally or alternatively the UE may include an event application that can be presented using the user interface . Utilizing the user interface the user may select to view one or more views of the event and or request that events nearby the user be presented to the user.

The event determination module receives communications e.g. media content event vectors etc. from a UE via the user equipment interface . The event determination module can store appropriate communications such as media content in a published content database . Further the event determination module may receive event vectors associated with one or more events and store the vectors in an event data database . Moreover the event determination module may associate one or more of the event vectors with particular users and update a user profile database of the behavior of the user. A user profile may be created for a user of the media application when the user registers with the event platform . The user profiles may be updated when the user transmits content to the event platform . The event data database historical data database and the user profile database may be utilized to make a heuristic determination of the existence and extent of an event based on a comparison of the historic information and current event vectors for a location as further detailed in . Once the existence of the event is established the event platform may determine and transmit event information about the event to users of an event application . In certain embodiments the users of the event application may request and provide location information of the user to receive customized event information as further detailed in . This event information may be transmitted to the user of the event application using the user equipment interface .

Then at step the event determination module determines a plurality of event vectors for the respective UEs e.g. by extracting the event vectors for the media or related information transmitted from the UE . As mentioned above the event vectors may include geo location information e.g. GPS coordinates timing information magnetometer information accelerometer information altimeter information air pressure information user identifier information other such available and suitable sensor information or a combination thereof. The event vectors may be determined by extracting information from a transmission from the respective UEs . In certain embodiments the event vectors are extracted from the received media which may have been stored in metadata of the media. In other embodiments the event vectors are received directly from the UEs .

Next the event determination module determines the existence of an event based on the received media and the event vectors step . The event vectors may be compared with historical information from an event data database and a user profile database of mobile users utilizing media applications in particular regions. Correlating the current event vectors with the historical information allows for the detection of the event as further detailed in the processes of . An event vector may be considered current if timing information e.g. a timestamp associated with the event vector is within a certain time range of the time the determination is executed. Location and orientation data of the UEs capturing media can be extrapolated to further yield area of interest information and the focal point of the event as further detailed in . Once it is determined that a UE is partaking in an event the user may be queried to describe the event. In this manner multiple UEs may be utilized to describe the event. Moreover because the event determination module can associate each UE with a particular event the event may be labeled with more than one describing identifier. This approach advantageously allows users of the event platform to receive description information about the event without fragmentation of the event e.g. multiple instances of the same event being described by the event platform .

The event determination module may collect data about the event as well as historical events in an event data database and information about users of the service in a user profile database . Using historical information the event determination module can determine a historical event determination threshold step . In one embodiment this threshold represents a score that is to be exceeded to determine that an event exists. By way of example the score is based on historical information related to events that have occurred at a particular location in the past and or other historical information e.g. sensor information from UEs that are not determined to be associated with events . The score may represent for instance 1 the number or density of different UEs that have provided event vectors for a particular grouping of related event vectors e.g. the number of different UEs for a certain area associated with the grouping 2 the number of different UEs utilized in capturing the potential event 3 the number of similar events held in the past 4 popularity of the area associated with the grouping with the different UEs 5 the volume of media data transmitted from a certain location or region and the like. The threshold may be different for different regions with different properties. For example different thresholds may be determined for commercial areas residential areas industrial areas urban areas rural areas etc. In one scenario in a residential area the threshold for the existence of an event may be higher than in a commercial area to filter out smaller events e.g. a small family gathering . Moreover the event determination module may set a higher threshold for a region if static events regularly occur. For example more people may regularly capture media near monuments and museums and thus a higher threshold is needed to determine that there is an event occurring at a monument or museum outside of the normal events. Further in rural areas where there is little media capture in general a lower threshold value may be utilized. In certain embodiments the threshold may be associated with a density of the users in an area surrounding the location of the potential event. In other embodiments the threshold is based on a number of UEs determined to be at the event. Moreover in additional embodiments the threshold is based on the volume of media data transmitted from a certain location or region.

After determining the threshold score a score may be determined for a potential event under current evaluation based on the event vectors and media received from the UEs . The total score may represent a number of UEs or a density of UEs for an area associated with the potential event and the score may be raw or weighted. Each individual UE may be associated with a base score. Then each score may be adjusted or weighted based on a user profile associated with the UE . For example if a user regularly captures media in a single place the user profile database may collect this information and weight the user s score lower than the base score because this activity may indicate that the user is capturing media for a different reason e.g. capturing media at home capturing media for work purposes etc. than because of an event. Moreover the base score may be increased based on a determination that the user actively captures media at different events based on a heuristic analysis of the user s past activity. Once a score is determined for each UE the scores may be combined into a current event score step . In certain embodiments only scores considered current may be utilized in determining the event score. What is considered current may be determined based on a predetermined time span associated with historical information about events in the region. Thus media may be considered current if the media is captured within the time span. In certain embodiments this score may be adjusted into a density score e.g. based on an area associated with the size of the event . This density score may be utilized to determine if there is a single event occurring in the area or multiple smaller events occurring in the area of the potential event.

Next at step the existence of the event is determined based on a comparison of the score and the historical event determination threshold. If the score exceeds the threshold it is determined that there is an existing event because historical information leads to the likelihood that there is an event in existence if the threshold is exceeded. The existence of an event may trigger additional determinations about the event as further described in such as the extent of the event and selecting media associated with the event to publish.

Further an area of extent associated with the event may be determined step . A perimeter may be determined using orthogonal boundary lines . These lines may be orthogonal to the determined vectors . Moreover if there are gaps in the perimeter the focal point may be utilized to determine the boundary. In other embodiments the area of extent may be determined to be an area based on a radius from the focal point to the furthest user. Additionally the structure of the event may be determined step based on the focal point and the area of extent. For instance if the focal point is in the sky it may be determined that the structure of the event is a sky event. Moreover if the focal point is only captured from a particular side it can be determined that the event faces a certain direction from the focal point e.g. the event faces south west from the focal point . This structural information may be used to determine a type of event associated with the event step . In this manner the structure of the event may be determined to be a stage facing the determined direction a sky event a stadium event if it is determined that the UEs have a higher vantage point than the focal point a building event e.g. if the UEs are within a building etc. When the focal point is determined and area of extent is determined the area of extent may be associated with a map step . This map may be utilized to disseminate information about events to the users of the event platform . The users may receive this information using the processes of .

When the request is received the request may be associated with a user profile using authentication procedures. User profile preferences may then be retrieved from the user profile which may be utilized to select one or more events to present to the UE step . Under one scenario the selection is based on a radius of the user s location as exemplified in the map image of . If an event is within the radius the user may be presented with information about the event. Further the user profile may filter events from view based on certain criteria such as the size of the event or the structure of the event. For example the size of the event may be determined based on the number of UEs collecting media about the event or based on a density of UEs associated with the event. Moreover as previously noted the structure of the event may include information as to whether the event is outside in the sky within a building etc. The user may be able to filter one or more of these types of events from the events the user may wish to view. Then the events may be presented to the user and the user may select an event to view information about from the presented events.

Once the event is selected the event determination module may determine media to present to the user. The event determination module may categorize media associated with the event into views step . This may be implemented by a publisher that overviews the content. The media may be stored and retrieved from a published content database . Further the publisher may be a component of the event determination module and the views may be customized to the user. Media associated with the event may be categorized based on a quality of the media e.g. for visual media the resolution of the media the type of media e.g. video audio image etc. and the vantage point of the user collecting the media. For example the vantage point may be determined by correlating the location information of the UE associated with the media to the focus point of the event. Certain vantage points may also include whether the user has a view from above a view from below based on accelerometer information and altitude information associated with the location information. Moreover the vantage points may be determined based on how close the UE associated with the media was to the focal point when the media was captured. One or more of the views may be offered to the user. A view to present may be selected by the event determination module based on the user profile step . The user profile may indicate a certain bandwidth limitation of the user s UE and or other preferences that may be used to select the view. When data is determined to be presented to a user the data is caused to be transmitted to the UE of the user. Then the data is caused to be presented to the user via a user interface of the UE .

With the above approaches users are able to receive information about events that other users are associated with. In this manner spontaneous unacknowledged unadvertised or unscheduled events may be published to the users. This facilitates detection and publishing of unpublicized niche events which can add higher value and variety to the consumed content offered to the users. Moreover this manner of publication may be useful to event promoters because the venue of the event need not invest in additional infrastructure to take advantage of the publishing of the event. Further the determination of an event may be at a small additional bandwidth cost of associating event vectors to media. Thus users of media applications may additionally add to the determination of an event associated with the users by merely capturing media in a manner normal to the user. Further the processing at the UE of the users capturing the media or viewing the event may be minimal because the event platform may perform the major calculations in determining the existence and properties of the event thus improving battery performance of the UEs while providing the service. As such the event platform is able to provide the existence and properties of the event to multiple UEs .

The processes described herein for determining the existence of an event based on information collected from UEs may be advantageously implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to determining the existence of an event based on information collected from UEs . The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for determining the existence of an event based on information collected from UEs . Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for determining the existence of an event based on information collected from UEs is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for to the UE .

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to determine the existence of an event based on information collected from UEs . The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of collecting information to determine the existence of an event. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to collect information to determine the existence of an event. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

