---

title: HBT with configurable emitter
abstract: A heterojunction bipolar transistor is formed with an emitter electrode that comprises an emitter epitaxy underlying an emitter metal cap and that has horizontal dimensions that are substantially equal to the emitter metal cap.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08435852&OS=08435852&RS=08435852
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 08435852
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 156 078 entitled HBT with Configurable Emitter filed on Jun. 16 2005 now abandoned the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Nos. 60 619 122 and 60 619 123 both filed on Oct. 15 2004.

This disclosure was made with government support under Contract No. F33615 02 C 1286 awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in this disclosure.

This disclosure relates to a non self aligned heterojunction bipolar transistor HBT and a method for preparing a non self aligned HBT.

The use of self aligned contacts in the HBT process is intended to minimize the base access resistance of the device. The use of this technique is known in that fabrication of early HBTs utilized contact lithography or early broadband wafer stepper systems for device fabrication. These systems are capable of limited layer to layer registration and therefore the only technique available to minimize contact spacing was to employ the technique of self aligned contacts. Large circuit demonstrating yield of known devices is described in T. P. Broekaert W. Ng J. F. Jensens D Yap D. L. Persechini S. Bourgholtaer C. H. Fields Y. K. Brown Boegeman B. Shi and R. H. Walden InP HBT Optoelectronic Integrated Circuits for Photonic Anaolog to digital Conversion IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits Vol. 36 No. 9 September 2001 pp. 1335 1342 which is incorporated herein by reference.

While self aligned HBT devices do demonstrate lower base resistance this technique is prone to variations in device Beta due to lateral diffusion of minority carriers in the base and recombination at the base metal BMET contact which leads to variations in the base current of these devices. Since variations in base current lead to variations in Beta the HBTs fabricated using self aligned contacts demonstrate a large range of measured Beta.

A description of general HBT devices can be found in Jensen J. F. Stanchina W. E. Metzger R. A. Rensch D. B. Pierce M. W. Kargodorian T. V. Allen Y. K. AlInAs GaInAs HBT IC technology Custom Integrated Circuits Conference 1990 Proceedings of the IEEE 1990 13 16 May 1990 Pages 18.2 1 18.2 4 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Another general description of a HBT device is disclosed by Hafizi M. Stanchina W. E. Sun H. C. Submicron fully self aligned AlInAs GaInAs HBTs for low power applications Device Research Conference 1995. Digest. 1995 53rd Annual 19 21 Jun. 1995 Pages 80 81 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Jensen J. F. Stanchina W. E. Metzger R. A. Rensch D. B. Allen Y. K. Pierce M. W. Kargodorian T. V High speed dual modulus dividers using AlInAs GaInAs HBT IC technology Gallium Arsenide Integrated Circuit GaAs IC Symposium 1990. Technical Digest 1990 12th Annual 7 10 Oct. 1990 Pages 41 44 describe a general HBT device as well which is incorporated herein by reference.

Base emitter shorts are a leading limitation to HBT IC yield. Shorts due to metal spiting during the self aligned base metal deposition occurs in about 1 in 600 transistors and limits current HBT IC yield to below 2000 transistors. The use of non self aligned emitter base contacts eliminates the possibility of shorting of this type.

In HBTs designed for high speed applications current gain is not determined solely by recombination in the bulk of the base epitaxial layer. Both surface and bulk components of base current combine to decrease the overall device current gain. InP HBTs known in the state of the art employ self aligned base emitter structures to reduce the extrinsic base resistance and the base collector junction capacitance. This alignment technique results in narrow contact spacing and potentially large values of surface recombination. Handbook of III V Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors W. Liu 1998 Wiley Sons FIGS. 3 54 3 55 shows that Beta is extremely sensitive to the spacing of the emitter and base contacts for values closer than about 1500 . In this range minor variations in wet etch isotropy or in metal deposition source angle could lead to wildly varying values of Beta. In a self aligned HBT the emitter base spacing can even approach zero.

The mechanism for reduction and variation in Beta is shown in . shows that electrons which are emitted by the emitter epitaxial layer migrate through the base layer to the collector layer . A minority of the electrons however laterally diffuse and do not reach the collector layer and instead migrate to the base metal . Any electron that reaches the base metal instead of collector layer causes a reduction and variation in device Beta.

In a further process step the emitter epitaxial layer is etched off to yield an emitter epitaxy below and in line with emitter metal cap . shows an emitter epitaxy below and in line with the emitter metal cap wherein the emitter epitaxy has an undercut . The undercut is obtained by two etch process steps a wet etch and a dry etch. The undercut is necessary for devices according to the prior art between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy as shown in . The emitter epitaxy is in the form of a pedestal and together with the overlying emitter metal cap form the emitter electrode of the HBT. In a next step a photoresist layer is applied on the base layer covering the base layer and emitter epitaxy and emitter metal cap as shown in .

The next process is carried out according to image reversal photolithography as follows. The photoresist layer is irradiated by light or electron beam through a mask . The mask covers the area overlying the emitter metal cap that is thus not irradiated. After irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer that was irradiated through the mask becomes impervious to removal. The area of the photoresist that was covered and therefore not irradiated is susceptible to removal as shown in . After removing the susceptible area of the photoresist part of the base layer the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal cap are no longer covered by the photoresist layer and are thus exposed as shown in . In the next step base metal is applied on the entire top surface as shown in . In the next step the photoresist is removed together with the base metal on top of the photoresist as shown in . The emitter electrode comprised of emitter epitaxy and emitter metal cap is covered by the base metal . The base metal is spaced a certain distance from the emitter epitaxy in order to avoid electrical shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy . Such shorting is avoided by the provision of the emitter epitaxy undercut . However due to the undercut of the emitter epitaxy the contact area between the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal cap is reduced.

It is therefore desirable to be able to produce an HBT that reduces shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy that solves the recurring problem of low and varying values of current gain Beta and that further solves the problem of variations in HBT Beta from wafer to wafer variations in HBT Beta within a single wafer and from wafer to wafer. Base emitter shorts which occur in about 1 our of every 600 transistors lead to poor line yield for HBT wafers.

According to one embodiment disclosed herein a method for fabricating an HBT comprises providing a structure comprising sequentially a substrate a collector layer for the HBT a base layer for the HBT an epitaxial layer and an emitter metal layer for the HBT etching the emitter metal layer and the epitaxial layer to form an emitter electrode comprised of an epitaxy pedestal underlying an emitter metal cap and having horizontal dimensions that are substantially equal to the emitter metal cap depositing a photoresist layer over the structure irradiating the photoresist layer through a mask removing a portion of the photoresist layer to expose a portion of the base layer that is spaced a predetermined distance away from the emitter electrode depositing base metal over the structure and removing the remainder of the photoresist layer together with the base metal deposited thereupon.

According to another embodiment disclosed herein a method for fabricating an HBT comprises providing a structure comprising sequentially a substrate a collector layer for the HBT a base layer for the HBT an epitaxial layer and an emitter metal layer for the HBT etching the emitter metal layer and the epitaxial layer to form an emitter electrode comprised of an epitaxy pedestal underlying an emitter metal cap and having horizontal dimensions that are substantially equal to the emitter metal cap depositing a base metal layer over the structure depositing a photoresist layer over the base metal layer irradiating the photoresist layer through a mask removing a portion of the photoresist layer so that only a portion of the base metal layer that is spaced a predetermined distance away from the emitter electrode remains covered by photoresist removing the portion of the base metal layer that is not covered by photoresist and removing the remainder of the photoresist.

The photoresist that is irradiated may be subsequently removed to expose the base layer or alternatively the photoresist that is shielded by the mask from being irradiated is subsequently removed to expose the base layer.

The base metal is placed according to the present disclosure at least some multiple of a diffusion length L away from the emitter in order to avoid reduction and variation in device Beta. This is accomplished in self aligned SA HBTs by a method of wet etching of the emitter pedestal emitter metal cap and emitter epitaxy to move the emitter epitaxial layer further under the EMET pattern . The present disclosure provides a method of lithography to control this emitter to base spacing and to minimize the diffusion of electrons.

Two terminal forward Gummel characteristics for three self aligned HBT devices were measured at three different sites across a three inch InP wafer as shown in . The top three curves I II III plot the collector current and show the variation in device turn on voltage across the wafer. The bottom three curves IV V VI are the measured base current of the devices which shows the large variation in leakage current across the wafer for these self aligned devices.

Two terminal forward Gummel characteristics for three non self aligned NSA HBT devices were measured at three different sites across a three inch InP wafer as shown in . The device measurements plotted here were taken from devices adjacent to the three from . The top three curves I II III plot the collector current and show that these devices demonstrate a great improvement in minimizing the variation in device turn on voltage across the wafer. The bottom three curves IV V VI are the measured base current of the devices which shows significantly lower leakage current as well as reduced variation across the wafer for these non self aligned devices. The reduced leakage current demonstrated by these NSA devices leads to higher gain and usable gain at extremely low power levels.

The unity gain cutoff frequency F for the six devices from and were measured and are shown in . Extrapolation of ft was done from a single frequency point s parameter measurement assuming an h versus frequency slope of 20 dB decade. This plot shows that the NSA devices operated at higher frequencies compared to the self aligned devices across the entire range of current or power levels.

With reference now to the starting material is preferably a layer structure which comprises a base . An emitter epitaxial layer is deposited or grown on the base . An emitter metal layer EMET is deposited on the emitter epitaxial layer . Underneath the base layer a collector layer and below the collector layer a subcollector layer is deposited on the substrate . The described layer structure beginning with substrate and on the substrate preferably the following layers are deposited subcollector collector base layer emitter epitaxial layer and emitter metal layer is a preferred starting material for manufacturing SA and NSA transistors. This structure is referred to as the HBT epitaxial layer structure.

According to one embodiment disclosed herein the layer structure as shown in is used as the starting structure. The emitter epitaxy of this starting structure does not have an undercut . The process for yielding the emitter epitaxy involves only dry etching and the step of wet etching is omitted. It is the wet etch process that creates the undercut of the emitter epitaxy and which is necessary to the prior art devices to avoid shorting between the base metal and the emitter epitaxy . The process of the present disclosure makes it possible to deposit the base metal on the base at a controlled distance from the emitter epitaxy to thereby avoid shorting as best shown in .

A photoresist layer is applied on the top surface layer. Two different methods can be preferably applied to irradiate and remove photoresist layer image reversal photography and positive photolithography. Image reversal photography is shown in and previously explained in regard to . The photoresist layer is irradiated by light through a mask . The mask leaves the area of photoresist covering the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal cap together with what is later to become the emitter to base spacing x away from the emitter exposed to be irradiated. After irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer that was irradiated through the mask becomes impervious to removal while the area of the photoresist that was covered and therefore not irradiated is susceptible to removal and can be removed.

In the positive photolithography method as shown in the photoresist layer is irradiated by light through a mask that covers the area of the emitter and the emitter to base spacing xaway from the emitter. After irradiation the surface of the photoresist layer that was irradiated through the mask becomes susceptible to removal while the area of the photoresist that was covered and therefore not irradiated remains impervious and cannot be removed.

In both methods the mask must be carefully designed so that after removing the non irradiated photoresist in the image reversal photography and after removing the irradiated photoresist in the positive photolithography parts of the base layer are still covered by photoresist layer . Both methods image reversal photolithography and positive photolithography yield the structure shown in . The two methods use a positive or negative mask and require different photoresist material. Both methods are well known in the art and are described in Microlithography Micromachining and Microfabrication Vol. 1 Microlithography Editor P. Rai Choudhury 1997 SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham Wash. and Semiconductor Lithography Principles Practices and Materials Wayne M. Moreau 1988 Plenum Press New York which are both incorporated herein by reference.

It is important that the emitter electrode that is the emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal cap are not exposed but rather are both vertically and horizontally covered by the photoresist layer as shown in . The width pof the vertical coverage of the emitter metal cap with photoresist predetermines the later emitter to base spacing x. The thickness of the vertical coverage of the emitter metal cap predetermines the emitter to base spacing xas shown in . In the next step the entire top surface is covered with base metal as shown in . In the following step the photoresist is removed together with any base metal on top of the photoresist as shown in .

A comparison between the SA design of the state of the art in and the NSA design obtained by the method outlined in shows that an emitter to base spacing xis created by the method according to the present disclosure. Furthermore the emitter electrode obtained by the methods of the present disclosure is not covered by base metal .

According to another embodiment disclosed herein the layer structure as shown in is once again used as the starting structure. In this embodiment as shown in a base metal layer is applied on the top surface to cover the entire structure. Next a photoresist layer is applied on top of the base metal layer as shown in . Two different methods can next be applied to irradiate and remove photoresist layer image reversal photography as shown in or positive photolithography as shown . Both methods are described in the preceding sections with regard to and . According to both methods the mask must be carefully designed so that after removing the non irradiated photoresist in image reversal photolithography and after removing the irradiated photoresist in the positive photolithography parts of the base layer are still covered by photoresist layer . The distance pbetween the edge of the photoresist covering the base metal and emitter epitaxy and the emitter metal cap as shown in predetermines the emitter to base spacing xas shown in . In the next step the base metal layer that is not covered by photoresist is removed while base metal that is covered by photoresist remains overlying the base as shown in . In the next step the remaining photoresist is removed as shown in . This embodiment also produces an emitter electrode that is not covered by base metal .

The emitter resistance is composed of many constituent parts. Contact resistance depends upon the material and doping characteristics of the epitaxial layer as well as the quality of metal semiconductor interface. One of the epitaxial layers that comprise the emitter epitaxy stack is the emitter contact layer. This layer as well as the lightly doped portion of the emitter layer are very thick in current state of the art HBT devices. From an electrical point of view the emitter resistance is a series resistance of conduction vertically through these layers to the emitter metal layer. For a given set of doping levels in these layers a method of significantly reducing the emitter resistance is to simply thin these layers.

The emitter contact resistance depends upon the material and doping characteristics of the epitaxial layer as well as the quality of metal semiconductor interface. These factors being constant the emitter resistance depends primarily on area of the metal semiconductor pattern following the equation equation 1 

Where Ris the emitter contact resistance ris the sheet resistivity of the emitter contact layer and Ais the emitter metal contact area. As such the linear relationship of emitter resistance in equation 1 above does not hold for devices when they are scaled to emitter sizes below 0.5 m.

An advantage conferred by the present embodiments is the ability to scale the emitter epitaxial layers vertically thinner arbitrarily as required by the device designer. The emitter epitaxy stack thickness in state of the art self aligned HBTs is determined primarily by the need to avoid emitter to base metal shorts during base metal deposition. The present embodiments however may be formed with substantially thinner emitter epitaxy layers as there is no longer any need for the emitter metal cap to be disposed vertically higher than the base metal. Scaling of the emitter epitaxy layers allows the designer to choose emitter resistance and capacitance values optimized for circuit and or device performance.

A further advantage of the present embodiments lies in that the emitter may be formed using only dry etching which results in an emitter epitaxial layer with vertical walls that are contiguous and co planar with the vertical walls of the emitter metal cap that is the emitter epitaxial layer has substantially the same width or horizontal dimensions as the overlying emitter metal cap . This anisotropic one directional etching technique therefore provides for more of the emitter epitaxy to be in contact with the emitter metal thereby reducing emitter resistance and significantly improving device performance. Dry etching will also result in improved uniformity in view of the variable nature of wet etching.

Non self aligned HBT devices may be prepared with different emitter metal to base metal spacings X . shows a plot of seven curves x 0 m x 0.3 m x 0.4 m x 0.5 m x 0.6 m x 0.8 m x 1.0 m of DC Beta versus Ic A Collector Current . The spacing is between the emitter metal and the base metal the Emitter pedestal and the closest edge of the base metal X . 0 and 3 result in a much lower DC Beta versus collector current than 4 10. The differences in the measured values for DC Beta versus Ic A are small between 4 5 6 8 and 10. For distances greater than 0.4 microns diminishing returns are observed.

The preferred spacing between the emitter metal and the base metal X which means between the Emitter pedestal and the closest edge of the base metal X is from 0.05 m to 0.6 m preferably from 0.05 m to 0.5 m more preferably from 0.05 m to 0.3 m and most preferably from 0.05 m to 0.15 m.

The following preferred materials for metals and epitaxy are preferably used within the present disclosure. Any of the materials from each list can be used for each. That is any metal on the list will work for any of the three contacts and any of the epitaxial materials listed will work for any of the three epitaxy layers.

One or more of the following metals or metal alloys InGaAs InAlAs InAs InSb AlInGaAs InGaSb GaAs InP InGaP Si or SiGe can preferably be used as Emitter Epitaxy or Base Epitaxy or Collector Epitaxy.

One or more of the following metals or metal alloys Titanium Molybdenum Aluminum Gold Platinum Copper Gold Germanium Nickel Tantalum or Tungsten can preferably be used as Emitter Metal or Base Metal or Collector Metal.

One or more of the following metals or metal alloys Silicon SiGe InP GaAs SiC Quartz or Sapphire can preferably be used as Substrates.

Both light photolithography and even electron beam e beam lithography are applicable to the disclosure here. With photolithography there is a standard chrome on quartz mask used but any general mask works. The lithography could be either positive photolithography or image reversal photolithography.

A photoresist layer of 1 m was applied on the top surface of a layer structure wafer with emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in . A photoresist SPR 955 1.1 of Shipley Company was applied as a liquid by spin on processing to the wafer. The wafer was then heated on a hot plate by 90 C. for 60 seconds. The wafer was then exposed to a light through a mask as shown in . The light was i line 365 nm. After the irradiation the wafer was baked in an image reversal oven using NHgas at a temperature of 100 C. for 90 minutes. Then the entire wafer was exposed to a broadband illumination without a mask to complete the cross linking process in the photoresist. Then the wafer was exposed to a photoresist developer MF 321 Metal Ion Free of Shipley Company. A wafer was obtained as shown in . Then base metal was deposited on the entire top surface of the wafer as shown in using the process of thermal evaporation. A base metal was heated until the temperature of evaporation. First a thin layer of titanium as adhesion layer then platinum as diffusion barrier and finally gold was deposited on the top surface of the wafer. Then the entire wafer was exposed to an acetone bath wherein the photoresist was removed and a HBT precursor was obtained as shown in .

A photoresist layer of 1 m was applied on the top surface of a layer structure wafer with emitter epitaxy and emitter metal as shown in . A photoresist SPR 955 1.1 of Shipley Company was applied as a liquid by spin on processing to the wafer. The wafer was then heated on a hot plate by 100 C. for 60 seconds. The wafer was then exposed to a light through a mask as shown in . The light was i line 365 nm. Then the wafer was exposed to a photoresist developer MF 26A Metal Ion Free of Shipley Company. A wafer was obtained as shown in . Then base metal was deposited on the entire top surface of the wafer as shown in using the process of thermal evaporation. A base metal was heated until the temperature of evaporation. First a thin layer of titanium as adhesion layer then platinum as diffusion barrier and finally gold was deposited on the top surface of the wafer. Then the entire wafer was exposed to an acetone bath wherein the photoresist was removed and a HBT precursor was obtained as shown in .

Although the description above contains much specificity this should not be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this disclosure. For example the processes described above can involve additional or fewer steps that may be executed in a different order than that disclosed.

The foregoing Detailed Description of exemplary and preferred embodiments is presented for purposes of illustration and disclosure in accordance with the requirements of the law. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form s described but only to enable others skilled in the art to understand how the invention may be suited for a particular use or implementation. The possibility of modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. No limitation is intended by the description of exemplary embodiments which may have included tolerances feature dimensions specific operating conditions engineering specifications or the like and which may vary between implementations or with changes to the state of the art and no limitation should be implied therefrom. Applicant has made this disclosure with respect to the current state of the art but also contemplates advancements and that adaptations in the future may take into consideration of those advancements namely in accordance with the then current state of the art. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims as written and equivalents as applicable. Reference to a claim element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated. Moreover no element component nor method or process step in this disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or step is explicitly recited in the Claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. Sec. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . . . and no method or process step herein is to be construed under those provisions unless the step or steps are expressly recited using the phrase comprising the step s of . . . . 

