---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a multifunction sensor using mesh nanotube material
abstract: A method and apparatus for providing multiple functions using nanotube threads comprising: a first nanotube thread and a second nanotube thread, the first nanotube thread and the second nanotube thread arranged to form a mesh, wherein the first nanotube thread further comprises a measurable invariant property and the second nanotube thread comprises a measurable variant property.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276305&OS=09276305&RS=09276305
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09276305
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121128
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 641 468 filed May 2 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to wireless signal communications and more specifically to a method and apparatus for providing a multifunctional meshed nanotube sensor.

The capability to provide multiple functions for a single device provides convenient savings in physical space and costs. One traditionally single tasked device is an antenna. Antennas used in the communication of electromagnetic signals have been developed with a concern for size reduction while providing high fidelity information during transmission and or reception. Patch antennas have been a preferred choice of radio frequency RF front end design for their reliability and low profile topology. Such a profile makes them ideal for wireless systems where physical space on a wireless device is limited. Patch antennas are also lightweight and enable mounting onto various surfaces that are not suitable for dipole wire loop or multi element antennas. The patch antenna has proven to be quite effective for a variety of applications including terrestrial and satellite communications systems and various electromagnetic scanning arrays due to its low profile planar structure reasonable bandwidth and excellent gain.

Antenna material composition is crucial in ensuring the efficient and accurate transmission and or reception of wireless signals. The conductivity of these materials plays a critical role in not contributing to attenuation or distortion of signals already degraded by environmental factors experienced during propagation. Traditional patch antennas are constructed from conductive metals such as copper.

Military personnel and first responders carry various equipment to communicate with others and provide environmental information about their surroundings. For example personnel may carry a wireless communications device as well as an environmental condition detector e.g. temperature pressure gas and the like . Carrying numerous devices decreases mobility agility and effectiveness of the user.

Thus there is a need in the art for a method and apparatus that can provide a multifunction sensor e.g. both wireless communication as well as gas detection in a compact lightweight form factor.

Embodiments of the present method and apparatus generally relate to a multifunction meshed patch sensor capable of simultaneous wireless communication and gas detection sensing. The patch sensor comprising a first nanotube thread and a second nanotube thread the first nanotube thread and the second nanotube thread alternately crossing each other substantially orthogonally to define a mesh element wherein the first nanotube thread further comprises a measurable invariant property and the second nanotube thread comprises a measurable variant property.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a multifunction sensor e.g. an antenna and gas detector integrated into a single device. In one embodiment mesh construction of interwoven semiconductive and conductive nanotube threads capable of transceiving signals as well as changing properties when exposed to particular gases.

One exemplary embodiment design consists of a 2.65 3.68 nm patch constructed from 50 m diameter meshed CNT threads residing on a ground plane not shown separated by a dielectric substrate . An exemplary construction of the substrate may include an RT Duriod 6010 10.2 feedline layer RT Durioud 5870 2.33 for a patch layer. The mesh patch of connects to a microstrip feedline through an aperture as further illustrated in . The microstrip feedline connects through a connector to additional electronics for processing as will be discussed further below. Positioning of the aperture is dependent on the size of the meshed patch and the operating frequency and length of the feedline .

In one embodiment of the invention defects are introduced into the semiconducting threads of the patch . The defects ensure that the threads exhibit lower conductivity than their conductive thread neighbors and acting almost as a dielectric buffer. The defects also provide more locations for reactive gas molecules to donate or accept electrons thus increasing the likelihood that a reactive gas will cause a noticeable change in the semiconducting thread permittivity. The arrangement of semiconducting and conducting threads may be varied in other embodiments. Gas detection capability is realized when an oxidizing or reducing gas changes the permittivity of the semiconducting thread such that a received electromagnetic or wireless signal is distorted. The distortion may then can be compared to a predetermined expected baseline signal to determine the presence of a gas and its concentration.

The system further processes a signal from a coupler which is then processed by a transceiver portion and or a gas detector . The transceiver comprises a circulator isolator a first amplifier a second amplifier a mixer a local oscillator a signal detector and a signal processor . A coupler connects the transceiver to the patch sensor . For communications signals the patch sensor operates as an antenna. The circulator isolator directionally couples the signal to from the coupler and to from the transceiver s receiver and transmitter. In a transmitter mode a user interface sends commands to the CPU Memory such that there is a signal input to a first amplifier which passes the signal to the circulator isolator and ultimately to the patch for transmission. In a receiver mode the transceiver receives a signal from the circulator oscillator via a second amplifier . The signal is then mixed with a local oscillator within a mixer . The local oscillator is controlled e.g. frequency and or phase locked to the received signal. A signal detector processes the mixed signal to create the oscillator control signal as well as provide detected signal information e.g. modulation to the signal processor. The signal processor produces an output that is coupled to the CPU Memory and ultimately to the user interface . In some embodiments the user interface may comprise a display keyboard mouse and other peripheral devices.

The gas detector comprises an impedance detector comparator operational amplifier and threshold generator . The sensor is coupled to an impedance detector . The impedance detector senses the impedance of the sensor e.g. a resonance impedance by applying an RF signal to the sensor . The impedance value is coupled to the comparator and compared to a predetermined threshold level . A change in the impedance will show as a difference value of the resulting signal that forms the output. The result may be processed and or stored in the CPU Memory and ultimately displayed to the user through the user interface . The CPU Memory may also provide analog to digital conversions digital to analog conversions and various digital signal processing. An all digital solution may be used by implementing the transceiver and gas detector as software modules within the CPU Memory . As such the signals from the path sensor would be digitized and processed as described above.

The multifunctional system is implemented as a gas detector by taking advantage of newly discovered reactions of types of CNTs when introduced to particular oxidizing gases . Thus the mesh antenna patch comprises two measurable properties invariant and variant. The first invariant property allows the transceiver to communicate through the conductive lines . The second variable property interacts with the environment to provide a gas sensing capability through semiconductive lines . The reactions of the invariant property have been exploited as an ambient gas sensor by incorporating semiconductive SWNT thread lines with a high number of defects along as part of an electromagnetic wave resonator of the embodiment. Oxidizing and reducing gases such as He helium Ar argon N nitrogen NH ammonia and O oxygen proximate to CNT threads temporarily affect the permittivity and conductivity of such CNTs in the semiconductive material.

In some embodiments wireless communication is to be continuously performed through the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves on the conductive threads . Simultaneously or nearly simultaneously the semi conductive threads are performing gas sensing by detecting an impedance change. The radiating signals may originate from the patch or in other embodiments may also be received from a separate source not shown which is distinct from the meshed patch antenna structure in other embodiments.

A multifunctional device is thus realized when the invariant conductive CNT threads serve as the meshed patch antenna structure and the variant semiconducting CNT threads serve as dielectric spacer material with variable permittivity. In one embodiment the meshed CNT thread patch may simultaneously serve as both the radiating antenna for a communications system and as the dielectric loaded resonator for a gas detector .

In other exemplary embodiments RF signals may also be processed such that the resonant or center frequency shift will be compared to predetermined profiles of gases to determine the presence of a specific gas surrounding the sensor. Profiles may be calculated based on findings of predetermined results and thus compared to instant readings from the embodiment. This is because the center frequency shifts in direct response to the change in the permittivity of the CNT layer that occurs due to the presence of a reactive gas . Ultimately the exemplary embodiment would have the frequency shift in the resonant frequency detected on semiconductive thread lines while maintaining communication of wireless signals on the first conductive thread lines of the mesh structure. Further embodiments may have the detected RF signal originate from conductive thread lines of the mesh or from a source completely external and separate from the mesh.

By bundling the nanotubes together into longer fibers such as threads or ropes it has been determined that since nanotubes can be made into a thread it can be woven together on a larger scale similar to and or in conjunction with textile threads. When implemented with textiles air between layers may become the substrate or layers of textile threads may become the substrate for the nanotube threading.

Thus specific embodiments not detailed herein will include the mesh pattern that may be incorporated into articles of clothing wristbands lightweight aircrafts and have off chip designs for processing may also be realized in the future. Fabrication steps will also include factors such as various crystalline structure as well as specific programmable functionality for gas detection and communication systems integration. Other embodiments are also able to detect EMI moisture temperature humidity and those environmental factors affecting dielectric properties and permittivity. Further future embodiments may include structures of different weave patterns layers or separate transmitting and receiving communication lines.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present disclosure other and further embodiments may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

