---

title: Method and system for power delivery network analysis
abstract: The subject application relates to a method and system for power delivery network analysis. The present disclosure is directed towards a computer-implemented method for analyzing a power delivery network (PDN) system. The method may include receiving at least one of a chip power model, a package power model and a board power model at the computing device and co-simulating at least two of the chip power model, the package power model, and the board power model. Numerous other features are also within the scope of the present disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949102&OS=08949102&RS=08949102
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08949102
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
The subject application claims the priority of the following Chinese Applications Chinese Application No. 201110049844.1 filed on Feb. 24 2011 Chinese Application No. 201110048078.7 filed on Feb. 24 2011 and Chinese Application No. 201110048087.6 filed on Feb. 24 2011 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to printed circuit board PCB design and analysis. More specifically the present disclosure relates to power delivery network PDN analysis which may occur prior to fabrication of an actual integrated circuit IC .

PDN analysis including power integrity PI and IRDrop has become a focus of circuit designers. These tools allow the power distribution network to be simulated and modified in both the design and verification phases. When the PDN analysis is executed a frequency response of the PDN may be analyzed. During the verification process the designer may also perform the static and dynamic IRDrop analysis in the time domain. The use of PDN analysis tools may allow for modification of a design during the design phase and prior to the fabrication of an actual circuit. This may result in a considerable reduction in the time to market of a particular product.

For example split plane power distribution is a common circuit configuration to distribute electrical power to functional components of a broader electrical circuit design. As illustrated in split plane power distribution is generally implemented by a power plane and a ground plane the combination of which will be referred to herein as a power ground plane pair PGPP . Typically the power plane and the ground plane are spaced apart in planar parallel alignment and are separated by a dielectric medium.

Typically split plane power distribution networks must accommodate extremely rapid switching times of current across its domain. As these switching times are ever increasing from one generation of circuits to another power integrity PI analysis has become a focus of circuit designers whereby the power distribution network can be simulated and modified in the design phase. Due to the geometry of the PGPP and the switching times involved transmission line modeling is typically employed to analyze the frequency dependent characteristics of the PGPP during the design stage so that prudent design measures can be taken. For example as illustrated in a PGPP model includes a plurality of transmission line segment models each contained within a cell . When the PGPP model is executed a frequency response of the PGPP can be analyzed. Accordingly when resonance is apparent in the impedance profile at some frequency for example the designer may add capacitive elements at certain points in the PGPP to favorably alter the resonant frequency components of the power distribution network. Since through PI analysis such modification can be achieved at the design phase and prior to the fabrication of an actual circuit the time to market of a product using the circuit can be decreased considerably.

Whereas it is not difficult to model a simple plane pair transmission line the abstract shapes of typical PGPPs result in complex boundaries some of which may be internal to the exterior boundary of the PGPP. For example as illustrated in many PGPP models such as PGPP model are implemented in a uniform mesh of cells so that complex shapes can be accommodated. Consequently an extremely large number of cells may be needed to populate the entirety of the PGPP model . While several algorithms can be used to model the complex shapes of a PGPP the computational overhead for these algorithms are prohibitive especially where such PI analysis tools must share computational resources with other design tools.

Unfortunately the designer is often confronted with shapes and configuration far more complex than the simple PGPP shown in . For example splits voids cutouts as well as stitched power ground and signal vias provide additional problems for the designer of a particular circuit.

In a first embodiment of the present disclosure a computer implemented method for analyzing a power delivery network PDN system is provided. The method may include receiving at least one of a chip power model a package power model and a board power model at the computing device. The method may further include co simulating at least two of the chip power model the package power model and the board power model.

One or more of the following features may be included. In some embodiments the method may further include performing an IRDrop analysis and performing a power integrity PI analysis.

In some embodiments the board model may include at least one of a motherboard model and a daughter card model. The method may further include generating at least one result set based upon at least in part the co simulation. In some embodiments the result set may include an impedance measurement and a voltage drop. The method may further include modifying stackup based upon at least in part the result set. The method may also include optimizing the PDN system by altering a presence of one or more decoupling capacitors. In some embodiments co simulating may include pin mapping.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a computer program product residing on a computer readable storage medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon is provided. The instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations. Some operations may include receiving at least one of a chip power model a package power model and a board power model at the computing device and co simulating at least two of the chip power model the package power model and the board power model.

One or more of the following features may be included. In some embodiments operations may further comprise performing an IRDrop analysis. Operations may further comprise performing a power integrity PI analysis. In some embodiments the board model includes at least one of a motherboard model and a daughter card model. Operations may further comprise generating at least one result set based upon at least in part the co simulation. In some embodiments the result set may include an impedance measurement and a voltage drop. Operations may further comprise modifying stackup based upon at least in part the result set. Operations may further comprise optimizing the PDN system by altering a presence of one or more decoupling capacitors. In some embodiments co simulating may include pin mapping.

In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure a computing system is provided. The computing system may include at least one processor and at least one memory architecture operatively connected with the at least one processor. The computing system may further include a first software module executed by the at least one processor wherein the first software module is configured to receive at least one of a chip power model a package power model and a board power model at the computing device. The computing system further including a second software module executed by the at least one processor wherein the second software module is configured to co simulate at least two of the chip power model the package power model and the board power model.

One or more of the following features may be included. The computing system may further include a third software module configured to perform an IRDrop analysis. The computing system may further include a fourth software module configured to perform a power integrity PI analysis. In some embodiments the board model may include at least one of a motherboard model and a daughter card model. The computing system may further include a fifth software module configured to generate at least one result set based upon at least in part the co simulation. In some embodiments the result set may include an impedance measurement and a voltage drop. The computing system may further include a sixth software module configured to modify stackup based upon at least in part the result set. The computing system may further include a seventh software module configured to optimize the PDN system by altering a presence of one or more decoupling capacitors. In some embodiments co simulating includes pin mapping.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The present disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the concept of the disclosure to those skilled in the art.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer usable or computer readable storage medium including a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program coded embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. Additionally and or alternatively operations of the present disclosure may be written using any number of hardware description languages HDLs including but not limited to VHDL and Verilog. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown power delivery network PDN process that may reside on and may be executed by server computer which may be connected to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network . Examples of server computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer a server computer a series of server computers a mini computer and a mainframe computer. Server computer may be a web server or a series of servers running a network operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell NetWare or Red Hat Linux for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. Additionally alternatively power delivery network PDN process may reside on and be executed in whole or in part by a client electronic device such as a personal computer notebook computer personal digital assistant or the like.

As will be discussed below in greater detail power delivery network PDN process may be used to analyze a power delivery network associated with an electronic circuit design. PDN process may include extracting using at least one processor an electromagnetic EM model for each of one or more discontinuity structures associated with the circuit design. Power delivery network PDN process may then generate a three dimensional adaptive mesh model that is based upon at least in part the extracted EM model.

The instruction sets and subroutines of power delivery network PDN process which may include one or more software modules and which may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into server computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM . Storage device may include various types of files and file types including but not limited to hardware description language HDL files which may contain the port type descriptions and executable specifications of hardware blocks.

Server computer may execute a web server application examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft IIS Novell Webserver or Apache Webserver that allows for HTTP i.e. HyperText Transfer Protocol access to server computer via network Webserver is a trademark of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Apache is a registered trademark of Apache Software Foundation in the United States other countries or both . Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Server computer may execute an electronic design automation EDA application e.g. EDA application examples of which may include but are not limited to those available from the assignee of the present application. EDA application may interact with one or more EDA client applications e.g. EDA client applications for electronic design optimization.

Power delivery network PDN process may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within EDA application . In addition as an alternative to being a server side process the PDN process may be a client side process not shown that may reside on a client electronic device described below and may interact with an EDA client application e.g. one or more of EDA client applications . Further the PDN process may be a hybrid server side client side process that may interact with EDA application and an EDA client application e.g. one or more of client applications . As such the PDN process may reside in whole or in part on server computer and or one or more client electronic devices.

The instruction sets and subroutines of EDA application which may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into server computer .

The instruction sets and subroutines of EDA client applications which may be stored on storage devices respectively coupled to client electronic devices respectively may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into client electronic devices respectively . Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives solid state drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM read only memories ROM compact flash CF storage devices secure digital SD storage devices and a memory stick storage devices. Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to personal computer laptop computer mobile computing device such as a smart phone netbook or the like notebook computer for example. Using client applications users may access EDA application and may allow users to e.g. utilize power delivery network PDN process .

Users may access EDA application directly through the device on which the client application e.g. client applications is executed namely client electronic devices for example. Users may access EDA application directly through network or through secondary network . Further server computer i.e. the computer that executes EDA application may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example personal computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further notebook computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Laptop computer is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between laptop computer and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between laptop computer and WAP . Mobile computing device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between mobile computing device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and personal digital assistants to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Microsoft Windows CE Red Hat Linux or other suitable operating system. Windows CE is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting system in accordance with the present disclosure is provided. System may include a variety of different components which may be configured to perform some or all of the operations of PDN process . System may include mesh data processor analyzer simulator and user interface . System may also include a processor controller which may be configured to control some or all of the components of system e.g. mesh data processor . System may be configured to execute PDN analysis process as is described in further detail below and may include various databases and circuit model storage areas .

In some embodiments the exemplary system illustrated in may be implemented through data processing instructions to form power delivery network analysis system PDNS . System may be operated by a circuit designer to analyze circuit designs so that appropriate design decisions can be made. In some embodiments system may be configured to operate on data as opposed to on a physically fabricated circuit. That may include data formatted to physically fabricate the circuit on one or more circuit bearing media. For example data to construct component and interconnect mask patterns component placement location data packaging data and any other data necessary in a fabrication process to produce the finished circuit product. The present general inventive concept is not limited by any particular fabrication process and any suitable fabrication data format may be used with the present general inventive concept without deviating from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

In some embodiments mesh data processor may include any suitable processing circuitry and any suitable function may be used with the present general inventive concept without deviating from spirit and intended scope thereof. In some embodiments mesh data processor may be configured to execute various operations. Mesh data processor may construct a netlist to define a structure of the interconnected mesh components such as transmission line segment equivalent circuit models and resistive equivalent circuit models. In some embodiments mesh data processor may execute one or more adaptive mesh refinement procedures whereby an initial mesh is further refined. The present general inventive concept is not limited by a particular implementation of any of the data processing functions of the mesh data processor and any suitable function may be used with the present general inventive concept without deviating from spirit and intended scope thereof. The data processing functions to carry out the present general inventive concept will be described below as applicable otherwise the implementation details thereof will be omitted for the sake of providing a concise description of the general inventive concept.

As used in any embodiment described herein circuitry may include for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry state machine circuitry and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. It should be understood at the outset that any of the operations and or operative components described in any embodiment herein may be implemented in software firmware hardwired circuitry and or any combination thereof.

System may further include an analyzer that produces analytical data obtained from simulations of the interconnected mesh components generated by the mesh data processor. Analyzer may implement various analytical functions including but not limited to power integrity analysis. Portions of the system may be implemented by a suitable Electronic Design Automation EDA system having similar features as those described above. The present general inventive concept may be practiced by an existing EDA system having the novel features as described herein incorporated therein. Such incorporation may be carried out by altering the program code of the EDA system or may be incorporated as a functional module to interact with an existing EDA system through for example an Application Programming Interface API or other such mechanism.

In some embodiments system may include one or more graphical user interfaces . Some possible examples of user interfaces are provided herein with reference to the Figures. However the scope of the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to these examples. User interface may be in communication with one or more peripheral devices not shown . The peripheral devices may include a display unit and one or more input devices such as a mouse a track ball a stylus a touch screen and or a touchpad among others. The combination of hardware devices and suitably programmed processing instructions executed by the processor form the user interface . The user interface is used in certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept to present data to the user in a meaningful form on a display such as through images of circuit schematics circuit layout diagrams circuit test bench interfaces data management interfaces such as file directories and other images recognized by the user.

In some embodiments the user interface may also interpret user manipulations of any input device into messages and instructions that can be recognized by the process controller . The user interface may include a plurality of user controls to afford the user interactivity with and control over system . The user controls may include the input devices described above and may also include software implemented controls on the display such as buttons menus of commands text command entry blocks and other suitable software controls. The foregoing description of the user interface may be met by a suitably configured graphical user interface GUI the implementation details of such will be omitted for the sake of providing a concise description of the general inventive concept.

In some embodiments system may include a processor controller to coordinate and control the interoperations of the functional components of system so as to achieve a fully operational data processing system Process controller may be configured to coordinate and control the interoperations of the functional components of system so as to achieve a fully operational data processing system. For example the process controller may receive data corresponding to user manipulations of the user interface may format the data into a command and or data location in memory and may convey such information to the applicable functional module of system . The process controller may subsequently receive processed data from the applicable functional module and forward the data to another functional module as well as to indicate such processing on the user interface . The process controller may perform other coordination and control operations according to the implementation of the system and such other operations as well as the implementation of such can be embodied by a wide range of well known process control methods and devices. The present general inventive concept is intended to encompass all such alternatives of the process controller including multi threaded and distributed process control methodologies.

System may include a database of circuit objects that maintain all the data necessary to design analyze modify and fabricate a circuit per the specifications of the designer. As used herein a circuit object is a data structure that can be stored in a memory device to contain data of a circuit element so that the circuit element can be viewed modified interconnected with other circuit elements and analyzed in one or more circuit design contexts selected by a user. Such may be achieved by a suitable data abstraction technique so that a particular circuit element may be for example presented as a schematic symbol in a schematic entry design context presented as a footprint in a layout design context presented as a routing component in a circuit routing design context and provided as a component model in a circuit analysis and design verification context. A circuit object may also be hierarchical whereby a circuit object contains other circuit objects of circuit elements interconnected to form a component that has a schematic symbol layout footprint and a terminal characteristics model used as a single element in a circuit. An example of such a circuit object is that of an operational amplifier. Similarly an analysis object may be a data structure that can be stored in a memory device to contain data of a non circuit element such as cell data so that the non circuit element can be viewed modified interconnected with other non circuit elements and analyzed in one or more circuit design contexts selected by a user. It is to be understood that in the descriptions below unless otherwise made clear to the contrary operations described below as being performed on a circuit element or a non circuit element implies the operation being performed on the containing circuit object or analysis object respectively by the components of system .

It is to be understood that interconnection and power distribution components such as terminal pads wires conductive traces and segments thereof inter layer vias power planes and ground planes among others are considered circuit elements per the definition given above and may be contained in a corresponding circuit object in memory. Virtual nodes may also be stored in circuit objects as well as any equivalent circuit model connected between virtual nodes. Moreover circuit bearing media are also circuit components that may be contained in a circuit object. Accordingly a circuit designer may construct a power distribution circuit on a circuit bearing medium of for example silicon which has a known electric permittivity that may be stored in the circuit object of the circuit bearing medium. Such physical constants and circuit component dimensions can be obtained from the circuit objects of the components forming a power distribution circuit to construct equivalent circuit models described below.

In some embodiments circuit storage area may be a work space in memory such as in data memory in which to store circuit instances. As used herein a circuit instance is a data structure in memory containing all of the circuit objects necessary to view modify analyze and evaluate a circuit or sub circuit. It is to be understood that although only a single circuit storage area is illustrated in any number of such storage areas may be used to provide the intended purposes as described herein without deviating from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept. Additionally the circuit storage area may be defined as a static memory structure or may be dynamically allocated. The present general inventive concept is not limited to particular implementations of the circuit storage area.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting system in accordance with the present disclosure is provided. System may allow for the analysis of a variety of different types of models and or data sets. In this way system may include but is not limited to package model chip power model power noise contours display IC floorplanning and timing analysis with PDN model .

In some embodiments system may be configured to execute PDN analysis process which may be configured to analyze the performance including power integrity static and dynamic IRDrop of complex power delivery networks. For example those having multiple power nets with some irregular shapes e.g. splits voids cutouts and stitched power ground and signal vias short lossy conductor traces and frequency dependent dielectric materials from various EDA databases.

Referring again to chip power model e.g. current profile and passive circuit netlist may be obtained from one or more EDA databases and package power model may be obtained from one or more EDA databases. The other board models e.g. mother board daughter card may also be analyzed together through co design flow as shown in . PDN Analysis may allow for IRDrop analysis and PI analysis to obtain the impedance and voltage drop results at DIE side in the system. According to the analyzed results the power performance may be improved by modifying stackup IC component floor planning and optimizing the decoupling capacitors. The term stackup as used herein is meant to refer to the arrangement and types of layers in a multi layer board.

For the purposes of the present disclosure a decoupling capacitor may refer to a capacitor used to decouple one part of an electrical network or circuit from another. Noise caused by other circuit elements may be shunted through the capacitor thereby reducing the effect they have on the rest of the circuit. By co simulation with the whole extracted power system models the timing analysis SSN SSO EMC EMI analysis can be accurately simulated. This is discussed in further detail in .

Referring now to a schematic diagram is provided depicting an exemplary complex PDN structure . Any given power delivery network may include a wide variety of shapes. For example elements in a given PDN are often categorized as uniform e.g. parallel plate waveguides power ground planes and non uniform e.g. the discontinuity structures identified herein . In some embodiments of the present disclosure for each discontinuity structure the dyadic Green s function may be derived. Once this has been achieved the S Y parameters may be extracted using a method of moments analysis. These S Y parameter models may be implemented in a netlist and the entire PDN may be simulated using one or more circuit simulators.

Where L is an operator which may be differential integral or integro differential g is the known excitation or source function and F is the unknown function to be determined. Generally the method of moments is a procedure for solving Equation 1 . The method owes its name to the process of taking method of moments by multiplying with appropriate weighting functions and integrating. The method of moments is essentially the method of weighted residuals. Therefore the method is applicable for solving both differential and integral equations.

2. Conversion discretization of the IE into a matrix equation using basis or expansion functions and weighting or testing functions 

A method of moments approach may require calculating only boundary values rather than values throughout the space as a result it may be significantly more efficient in terms of computational resources for problems with a small surface volume ratio. Conceptually method of moments approaches may involve constructing a mesh over the modeled surface. As discussed above method of moments is applicable to problems for which Green s functions can be calculated. A Green s function generally refers to a type of function used to solve inhomogeneous differential equations subject to specific initial conditions or boundary conditions.

Referring again to the power and ground nets may include complicated physical structures in contrast to those shown in . For example the power nets may have a split shape and may include e.g. power vias ground vias and signal vias. Additionally and or alternatively coupling effects may be generated from the split shape power via ground via signal via plane split void via antipad plane edge pin through via sandwich plane edge plane pair bottom shorted via overlay split plane and sandwich split plane. For the purposes of the present disclosure these may be included within the phrase discontinuity models . Embodiments of the present disclosure provide for the geometric extraction of specific electromagnetic EM models for these discontinuity structures.

Referring now to a flowchart depicting some exemplary operations consistent with the present disclosure is provided. Some operations may include geometric extraction and generation of a three dimensional adaptive mesh . Operations may further include identifying the discontinuity models as well as the power and ground plane pairs . Once these models have been identified they may be subsequently modeled using e.g. three dimensional method of moments techniques and the Y parameter approach as is discussed in further detail below. Operations may further include multi node connections on the upper and lower surface of a particular conductor and eventual PDN simulation .

Based upon the extracted geometry the three dimensional adaptive rectangular mesh configuration shown in may be generated depicting the multiple layers and shapes combined with splits voids antipads of vias etc. For example depicts a three dimensional adaptive mesh where each layer has the same mesh while each mesh cell does not need to be aligned with each other at the four corner nodes. This may reduce the total number of cells thus improving the performance of the PDN analysis process.

Referring now to a diagram depicting an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram shows a three dimensional mesh having TILE CELL as well as a top view of tile and a cross sectional view of tile . For the purposes of this disclosure each mesh is represented by the term TILE while each adjacent conductor embedded in the TILE is referred to as a CELL . Power delivery network PDN analysis process may be used to generate the TILE and its related CELL structure. As is discussed in further detail below an electromagnetic EM model e.g. Unit Y parameter with length and width may be extracted using a method of moments approach.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram depicts a tile structure having five conductive layers L1 L5. In contrast to traditional methodologies where each conductor only has one node at one X Y location the power delivery network analysis process described herein may include a method where each conductor has two nodes on its upper and lower surface respectively. As shown in the upper node is not connected to the lower node of one conductor e.g. L1 because there is not any current passing from the upper node to the lower node because of skin effect at higher frequencies. For example there are different nodes on each upper surface and each lower surface with 5 conductive layers in the tile. The exclusion is that the top and bottom layers of each tile may have only one node in its inner surface.

As illustrated in and in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure virtual nodes such as is representatively illustrated on the conductors of may be utilized. As used herein a virtual node is a location on a conductor as opposed to a physical node that forms a connection between conductive elements such as a terminal of a physically realizable circuit element or a junction of conductive elements. A virtual node may be physically remote from connection with a physical circuit element but may act as a physical node with regard to certain analysis techniques such as forming interconnections of mesh of equivalent circuit models as is described in exemplary embodiments herein. Any use of the term node herein may refer to a virtual node. A virtual node may also define a point at which mathematical operations may be evaluated in a numerical modeling process. For example in addition to the equivalent circuit modeling described below a configuration of virtual nodes constructed in accordance with the present disclosure may be used to evaluate the circuit designs herein by such numerical analysis techniques as finite difference time domain modeling the finite element method and the method of moments.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure any number of the virtual nodes may be placed to conform to any arbitrary shape in a manner that reduces the number of mesh points required by conventional techniques. The adaptive mesh embodied in accordance with the present disclosure may decrease the amount of storage capacity and also decrease the number of computations to analyze a particular circuit design. In certain embodiments of the present disclosure the virtual nodes may be aligned in accordance with a coordinate system such as a Cartesian system.

In certain embodiments of the present disclosure the virtual nodes may be contained in an area defining a cell around each node such as a cell. As used herein a cell is a definition of a region that may be divided into other cells and or joined with adjacent cells to form a single cell. The cell may be of any suitable shape.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram depicts a decomposition of a complex PDN structure . Having obtained the model for each cell in one tile the upper node cannot be connected to the lower node directly. Therefore the discontinuity models from plane split and plane edge and via pin may be extracted to link the upper and lower surface nodes. The discontinuity structures like the power ground and signal vias with one end shorting for different net connection two end shorting for same net connection two end opening among two planes the over layered plane split the sandwich plane split the sandwich plane and plane edge and truncated plane edge are shown in detail in . Specifically PDN structure may be decomposed into pin through via sandwich plane edge plane pair sandwich split plane overlay split plane and bottom shorted via . It should be noted that these discontinuity structures are merely provided for exemplary purposes as other embodiments are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram depicts one TILE composed of multiple CELLs . In some embodiments during the model extraction process the plane model of each CELL may be extracted by method of moments if the layer stackup e.g. thickness conductivity of two conductors dielectric material including thickness dielectric constant loss tangent of this specified cell has not been extracted as shown in .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. shows one mesh CELL composed of four segments. It should be noted that CELLs having differing sizes e.g. length and width may have different S Y Z parameter models. For example 4 Y parameter models may be employed to analyze the frequency dependent characteristics of the meshed rectangular cell during the design stage so that prudent design measures may be taken. depicts a CELL model includes a plurality of 4 looped segment Y parameter models contained within a cell. Each segment may be modeled by using Method of moments with perfect magnetic condition boundaries on two sides as shown in .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. In the past model extraction may take a great deal of time because of the presence of so many different cells even though they have the same layer stackup as shown in . The power delivery network PDN analysis process of the present disclosure may utilize a scaled Y parameter model with one cell unit length and width. This may be set by a programmer and may be used for cell model extraction. For the purposes of this disclosure this may be referred to herein as CELLDEF . Using the CELLDEF any cell instance having the same layer stack and different length width may be obtained without requiring the performance of method of moments field solver repeat which may improve the model extraction process significantly. The term field solver generally refers to a specialized program capable of solving one or more of Maxwell s equations.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment utilizing a method of moments CELLDEF approach for modeling a plane cell. In some embodiments both the top and bottom conductor may be treated as normal lossy material and the equivalent magnetic currents may be determined using the Method of moments method. The EM field in three regions e.g. region a region b and region c may be calculated by utilizing the Green s functions respectively. This may be achieved by impressing the TEM source at one port and calculating the reflected and transmitted EM field at two ports. The S Y parameter may be calculated using this approach. After the unit cell model is extracted the new Y cell model instance may not be generated at once. In this disclosure the scaled Y parameter model having a set length and width is created for a plane cell instance. Even though the Y parameter model may be obtained through given length and width for each instance the Y parameter model is not generated directly in this disclosure but with two scaled parameters length and width. The following is one particular consumption example as provided in a circuit netlist Y instance n1L1 n2L1 n1L2 n2L2 file cell.ynp width 2.1 length 4.2 where the file cell.ynp is the CELLDEF having a unit width 1 mm length 1 mm and n1L1 n2L1 n1L2 and n2L2 are the names of 4 Y parameter nodes. The width and length are the given dimensions from the meshed tile cell or rectangular plane pair structure. Using the power delivery network PDN analysis process described herein the storage and or parsing process of reading writing files for Y parameter model instances may be significantly reduced. With the unit Y parameter from CELLDEF the simulator may reconstruct and modify the value according to its length and width parameters internally.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment depicting a cross sectional view of a sandwich split plane structure which includes the plane split and plane edge discontinuity models. As mentioned above the nodes on the upper surface and the lower surface of the CELL model may not be connected to each other directly but through the plane and via discontinuity models. In there is one split plane gap which has thickness t width w and is embedded into two top and bottom planes. For the middle layer conductor there are two nodes n1L1 and n1L2 on the left side and they belong to cell 1 and cell 3 respectively. The two nodes n1L1 and n1L2 are located on the left side and they correspond to cell 2 and cell 4 respectively. These four nodes may be connected through the split plane model with an 8 node Y parameter model. For simplification purposes the 6 node plane discontinuity model may be adopted by assuming the n1L1 and n1L2 nodes are shorted at the split location and then connected to the plane split discontinuity model. From the width of the split plane and its stackup are given and the length of this split is one variable. Therefore the Y parameter for split plane and edge plane has only one variable parameter the length. Here the scale parameter is used. The following is a consumption example for the sandwich split plane in circuit netlist Y instance n1L1 n2L1 n1L2 n2L2 n1L3 n2L3 file cell.ynp scale 2 where the file cell.ynp is the discontinuity model having a unit width 1 mm and n1L1 n2L1 n1L2 n2L2 n1L3 and n2L3 are the names of the 6 Y parameter nodes of the sandwich split plane. The scale is the given dimension from the meshed split plane structure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment depicting a plurality of additional plane discontinuity models. For example diagram includes overlay split plane model sandwich split plane model overlay plane edge model and plane pair . As shown in the number of nodes required for the plane edge discontinuity model may be two while that of the split plane discontinuity model may be four which is illustrated in further detail below. After the plane cell model and plane discontinuity models have been extracted the via model may be extracted using a method of moments calculation and or a frequency dependent skin effect function. In some embodiments the via parameter model may not be scaled. Therefore each different type of via stack and size may have a different Y parameter model. The via model may be subdivided into several types as shown in .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment depicting some of the different types of vias present in a power delivery network. In some embodiments the via structures including power via ground via and signal via between two planes may be accurately modeled by method of moments. As shown in models indicate plane pair and via pin models and models indicate via model with microstrip configurations.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment depicting a via cylinder port in accordance with the present disclosure. In this embodiment the cylinder port may include two nodes with one on the upper layer and other on the lower layer. The cylinder port may be defined and connected to the rectangular cells adjacent to it which is illustrated in . In other words the via nodes may be connected o the adjacent plane cell node. Furthermore the upper node and lower node on one plane conductor in the created circuit netlist may be shorted together as shown in . depicts one via passing through plane structure having one antipad when the antipad is small enough to be ignored during the mesh process for higher performance. The remaining part is the single plane mesh model without any other overlapped parts. This Y parameter model may be obtained using skin effect formula Zs. In some embodiments the surface impedance between two nodes may be transferred into two node Y parameter model. Then the scaled Y parameter model SKINDEF may be used for modeling a single plane. It may have the same description except for the number of nodes may only be two.

In some embodiments similar to the plane pair model the skin model may be adopted to deal with the single plane shape structure. At first the shape may also be meshed by a rectangular mesh as each mesh may be represented by four Y parameter skin models. For the purposes of the present disclosure the Y parameter skin models may be derived from SKINDEF Y parameter model with one scale width length value where the SKINDEF model with one unit scale 1.0 is extracted by analytical full wave method as following equation 2 

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment depicting the power delivery network analysis process described herein. Having obtained the Y parameter model for the plane pair plane discontinuity single plane with surface impedance and via and pin structure PDN analysis process may incorporate some or all of the components shown in . By inputting excitation sources on component pins the voltage drop and impedance on any measurement pin may be monitored or viewed using a three dimensional viewer as discussed in further detail below.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface may allow a designer to configure the power and ground nets for analysis using power and ground tab . UI may allow the designer to assign the correct voltage to the power and ground nets in the design. This may be accomplished utilizing the Identify DC Nets tab . UI may also allow the designer to select the power and ground nets to be analyzed. This may be accomplished utilizing the Select DC Nets tab . UI may also allow the designer to specify the source VRM or sink virtual excitation ports using components and ports tab . UI may also allow the designer to define the cross section with the requisite thickness conductivities dielectric constant and loss tangent by utilizing cross section tab . UI may further allow the designer to configure library paths to include all of the required models using the library manage tab . UI may also allow the designer to assign proper models to all of the related components using the model assignment tab . UI may also allow the designer to define all of the pin via padstacks with the correct drill and regular thermal anti pad parameters. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface may allow a designer to configure one or more decoupling capacitors by selecting decoupling capacitors tab . UI may provide the designer with all existing capacitors in the design. Net filter tab may be used to display and configure the decoupling capacitors for a specific power net. In order to configure capacitors in other libraries library tab may be selected. Once activated additional capacitors may be selected for analysis. Additional pop up menu commands may be available using right click activation on each capacitor. UI provides the designer with the ability to add delete and edit the capacitor models as necessary using tabs . Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface may allow a designer to configure the port information e.g. port type excitation and group for selected components using components and ports tab . UI may include a component window which may allow the designer to select the component in order to display the corresponding pin port information in display panel . UI may include edit profile tab which may allow the designer to define an additional package and or die profile for co design flow. UI may further include return path tab which may allow the designer to specify the return path for each power pin in selected power nets. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface may include analyze tab under power and ground tab . Analyze tab may include a variety of options including but not limited to mesh static IRDrop PI Plane and PI network analysis. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the return path configuration which may be displayed upon the activation of return path tab from . Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the return path configuration which may be displayed upon the activation of port group tab from . Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the display upon activation of the general tab of the preferences display. UI may include a number of user editable fields some of which may include but are not limited to delta current voltage ripple voltage DC IRDrop current threshold density threshold temperature rise threshold target impedance shape default corner frequency and slope dB decade decoupling capacitor mounted inductance and effective radius. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the display upon activation of the simulation tab of the preferences display. UI may include a number of user editable fields some of which may include but are not limited to lower frequency upper frequency sweep scale and sweep number in the frequency domain and duration time and resolution time in the time domain. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the display upon activation of the field solver tab of the preferences display. UI may include a number of user editable fields some of which may include but are not limited to mesh information and field solver information . UI may allow the designer the option to take into account voids in shapes for pins vias when calculating mesh information as well as providing fine regular coarse and custom options. For field solver a full wave model option may be provided as well as an editable ambient temperature and surface roughness fields. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the display upon activation of the ignore layer tab of the field solver display . UI may provide the designer with the option of selecting which layers to be ignored during simulation. Once a given layer is selected all shapes and paths in the selected layer may be ignored in the simulation. As shown in other options such as the layer name and type may also be provided. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the options available to a designer upon activation e.g. right click of mouse button etc. . Selection of the individual options provided in may result in the generation of one or more of the user interfaces described herein. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the options available to a designer upon activation e.g. right click of mouse button etc. . Selection of the individual options provided in may result in the generation of one or more of the user interfaces described herein. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the display after the impedance option has been selected. More specifically UI shows the impedance at the top and bottom surface on one power shape. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts the display after color legend option of has been selected. As shown in the designer may select from impedance voltage current density and temperature rise formats. Specific numerical values may be assigned to individual colors in the color legend. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a result set of the present disclosure is provided. Result set illustrates an impedance curve shown for each component pin of the simulation. Result set may be generated based upon at least in part the information provided in user interface of . Numerous additional results may be graphically displayed upon the selection of other options from UI .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure depicting a chip package board configuration is provided. The configuration provided in depicts package PCB daughter card and PCB mother board . Along with the PDN model at the board level the package and chip power model and other linked board PDN models may be connected for system power co design flow using one or more mapping files. As discussed previously with reference to chip power model e.g. current profile and passive circuit netlist from one or more EDA applications package power model from one or more EDA applications the other board models e.g. mother board daughter card may also be analyzed together through co design flow as shown in . PDN Analysis may allow for IRDrop analysis and PI analysis to obtain the impedance and voltage drop results at DIE side in the system. According to the analyzed results the power performance may be improved by modifying stackup IC component floor planning and optimizing the decoupling capacitors. By co simulation with the whole extracted power system models the timing analysis may be accurately simulated e.g. Simultaneous Switching Noise SSN Simultaneous Switching Output SSO Electro Magnetic Compatibility EMC and Electromagnetic Interference EMI .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface may allow a designer to configure the port information e.g. port type excitation and group for selected components using components and ports tab . UI may include a component window which may allow the designer to select the component in order to display the corresponding pin port information in display panel . UI may include edit profile tab which may allow the designer to define an additional package and or die profile for co design flow. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface shows one embodiment of a possible display generated upon activation of edit profile tab of . As shown in UI may include package model information die model information and connection panel information . The package model information may include but is not limited to device name package model identification and a PTMF tab . Die model information may include but is not limited to die name die model die load and a PTMF tab . Connection panel may include at least a board to package connection option a package to die connection option and a sink current option. Additional and or alternative options are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts a display generated upon activation of package PTMF tab shown in . UI includes pin mapping interface which may allow for the addition and or deletion of certain components of the design. UI may further include a selectable connection option in this particular example the Board option has been selected. As shown in once a particular component has been selected e.g. U1 the corresponding pins are provided in pin display section . Pin display section may include a number of fields including but not limited to pin name pin use net name port name pin location and cell name. UI may further include the option to add and or subtract individual pins and ports.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a user interface of the present disclosure is provided. User interface illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in user interface depicts a display generated upon activation of package PTMF tab shown in . UI includes pin mapping interface which may allow for the addition and or deletion of certain components of the design. UI may further include a selectable connection option in this particular example the Chip option has been selected. As shown in once a particular component has been selected e.g. U2 the corresponding pins are provided in pin display section . Pin display section may include a number of fields such as those described above with reference to . Similarly UI may also include the option to add and or subtract individual pins and ports.

In some embodiments a port or pin terminal mapping file PTMF refers to one type of mapping file that may be used in accordance with the present disclosure. An example of a portion of a PTMF is provided below.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment depicting a system diagram of the present disclosure is provided. Diagram illustrates one embodiment that may be used in accordance with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. As shown in embodiments described herein may allow for the display of one or more results of the power delivery network PDN analysis. In some embodiments a three dimensional image may be displayed depicting one or more of the results of the PDN analysis using electromagnetic viewer . In some embodiments EM viewer may receive net layer and or background information and may be interactive with numerous other types of software including other types of EDA software .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of a user interface consistent with the present disclosure is shown. UI may be configured to display one or more three dimensional images based upon at least in part the results from the power delivery network analysis process described herein. UI may include three dimensional display panel which may be configured to display the actual image. UI may further include a number of additional menus some of which may include but are not limited to visibility menu output menu threshold menu and display menu .

In some embodiments UI may be configured to generate a three dimensional animation in either the time domain and or the frequency domain. UI may include data format indicator which may allow a designer to choose between voltage current density and temperature in the time domain or impedance in the frequency domain. Power delivery network analysis process may use this selection in order to generate an image for display in display panel . UI may further include display pattern indicators which may allow a designer to select between a grid pattern and a fill pattern. UI may also include the option of selecting between two dimensional and three dimensional animation using 2D 3D selection tabs . Additionally and or alternatively the designer may be provided with additional options some of which may include but are not limited to playing stopping fast forwarding and rewinding the animation as depicted by control tabs . In some embodiments PDN analysis process may allow for the adjustment of the movie speed e.g. via a user editable field that may set the movie speed in frames second. In some embodiments PDN analysis process may allow for rotation of the displayed image using rotation tabs . For example the process may allow the designer to rotate the three dimensional results by either selecting the rotation tabs or alternatively by holding the ctrl key and utilizing a peripheral device such as a mouse.

In some embodiments UI may include a camera option such as camera drop down menu . Camera drop down menu may provide a designer with the option of directing the camera position at the top bottom front back left and right positions. Additionally and or alternatively UI may provide zoom out and zoom in capabilities as well as the ability to move the image within display panel .

In some embodiments UI may include a worst case functionality such as worst case tab . At any given location the impedance may be changed according to the change of frequency points the worst case may correspond to the largest impedance value at the whole frequency range. UI may be configured to generate this value upon activation of worst case tab . For the time domain the voltage current current density value may be changed according to the time the worst case may correspond to the largest value over the threshold for all of the time step. It should be noted that the functionality described herein may be applied during either animation mode three dimensional or picture mode two dimensional .

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting output menu is provided. In this particular embodiment output menu is shown having the net information displayed. This may be displayed upon selection of net information tab . As shown in some possible examples of net information may include but are not limited to voltage impedance IRDrop current density and temperature. The net information display may allow a designer the option of changing the threshold value of each type of information in order to yield a more optimal value.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting output menu is provided. In this particular embodiment output menu is shown having the stack up information displayed. This may be displayed upon selection of stack up tab . As shown in some possible examples of stack up information may include but are not limited to layer name type material thickness conductivity dielectric and loss. Some of the fields may include color coded type displays which may be set using the color legend in described in further detail below. In some embodiments the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure may allow a designer to import one or more background files as well.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting visibility menu is provided. Visibility menu may include a display indicating some or all of the layers of the design. Visibility menu may allow the designer to show or hide layer information. For example and as shown in visibility menu may include etch pin via background and all options which may be hidden or shown depending upon the designer s preference.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting color legend is provided. Color legend may allow a designer to assign one or more colors to a particular value as shown in . The format and method may be altered as necessary in order to perform a more accurate comparison with a target value.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting threshold display is provided. Threshold display may include format net and threshold information. Threshold display may further include the option of displaying the plane in canvas i.e. to show or hide the threshold plane in three dimensional mode . Threshold display may allow a designer to alter the threshold value in order to change the position of the threshold plane.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting display menu is provided. Display menu may include background transparency and brightness options. Display menu may allow a designer to update workspace background color and the target object s transparency and or brightness to obtain an desired display result.

In some embodiments the three dimensional viewer described herein may allow for interoperability with a wide variety of EDA products. For example the three dimensional viewer may permit the easy transfer of data from any or all of the products available from the assignee of the present disclosure. This data may be transferred directly from other EDA tools directly into the three dimensional viewer described herein.

Additionally and or alternatively in some embodiments the three dimensional viewer may allow a designer to select one individual component wave by double clicking or otherwise activating the object wave. As a result the select component wave may be shown in a single window. The designer may then focus on the detailed information of the component wave without being disturbed by having other waves in the display window.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure depicting frame menu is provided. Frame menu and or control tabs shown in may provide the designer with the option of viewing the data change in animation mode or picture mode. Additionally and or alternatively frame menu may allow the designer to locate a particular frame. In some embodiments the images generated by three dimensional viewer may be exported in either animation mode or picture mode.

Referring now to a flowchart is provided depicting operations consistent with the power delivery network analysis process of the present disclosure. PDN process may include receiving at least one of a chip power model a package power model and a board power model at the computing device and co simulating at least two of the chip power model the package power model and the board power model . Numerous other operations are also within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a power delivery network analysis process is provided. Based upon the physical layout of specified power and ground nets three dimensional adaptive spatial resolution of rectangular mesh nodes in simulating electric circuits is utilized to mesh the specified power and ground nets. This may be achieved while accounting for discontinuity structures which may include but are not limited to the voids including antipads of power ground and signal vias cutouts splits etc.

In some embodiments and according to the three dimensional adaptive mesh results a power delivery network analysis process may include a full wave method of moments field solver which may be optimized to extract and model the via and meshed plane and plane discontinuities with high efficiency.

In some embodiments in order to speed up the model extraction and PDN simulation the scaled Y parameter model with length and width parameters may be used to improve efficiency for the plane plane split and plane edge model having different dimensions. Moreover the power delivery network analysis process may utilize the unique upper and lower plane surface nodes for meshed plane as described herein to connect through via and plane discontinuity models.

In some embodiments the results from the power delivery network analysis process may be intuitively displayed in a three dimensional electromagnetic EM viewer having a physical layout background and cross probe function. The teachings of the present disclosure may be used to simulate various power delivery networks PDN to provide the impedance and voltage drop analysis efficiently. The power delivery network analysis process described herein may also provide a high capacity and high accuracy for board package chip board board circuit design and verification processes.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the embodiments of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. Thus it is intended that embodiments of the present disclosure cover the modifications and variations provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

