---

title: Item attention tracking system and method
abstract: User activity performed on an electronic data item is detected on a computing system. A record of the user activity is stored in an activity log that may be associated with the item, or in a separate file or system. The user activity is later scored, the score being based on one or more factors, including the user activity performed, characteristics of the electronic data item, and the user who performed the action. Optionally, activity logs from various computing systems may be combined into a master activity log. A request for a search is received, a search is performed, and ranked results of the search are presented to the requestor. Optionally, scores for a given user activity and electronic data item are combined with other scores, based on the activities being common, the item being common to the one or more activities, or other factors, according to user configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924375&OS=08924375&RS=08924375
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08924375
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
The present invention relates to computing system operations. More particularly the present invention relates to computing system operations performed on electronic data.

The use of electronic data in business and personal activities has become nearly ubiquitous. Users of computing systems operate on a vast amount of different kinds of data in nearly all computing system related activities such as creating and reviewing documents and communicating with other users of other computing systems.

In some situations such as when searching for data relating to a legal matter it may be necessary to search for data that potentially exists on one a few or perhaps many different computing systems. After having performed a search of those computing systems results data matching search parameters may be presented to a requestor.

Often the data presented as a result of a search is quite voluminous perhaps including many thousands or even millions of data items and thus takes a great deal of time to process to locate data that the requestor seeks. Further each data item is often treated alike and thus there is no differentiating factors indicating that one data item is more or less important than any other data item.

In accordance with one embodiment user activity performed on an item is detected on a computing system. A record of the user activity is stored in an activity log that may be associated with the item or in a separate file or system. In one embodiment a score is associated with the data item and the user activity performed the score being based on one or more factors.

Optionally activity logs from various computing systems may be combined into a master activity log. A request for a search is received the request including one or more parameters such as an activity score after which a search is performed on an activity log or a master activity log and search results are presented to the requestor. Optionally the search results are ranked according to score. Optionally one or more scores for a given user activity and item may be combined with other scores for other activities resulting for example in an overall item score.

Embodiments are best understood by reference to the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Common reference numerals are used throughout the drawings and detailed description to indicate like elements.

As an overview in accordance with one embodiment referring to A and B user activity is detected on computing system in a DETECT USER ACTIVITY OPERATION . Flow proceeds to an IS THE DETECTED ACTIVITY OF INTEREST CHECK OPERATION where a determination is made as to whether the particular user activity is a user activity that is of interest. If the detected user activity is of interest flow proceeds optionally to a SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION when a score is assigned to the item and user activity based on the performed user activity. The user activity and optional score are logged at a WRITE INFORMATION TO LOGFILE OPERATION . Other information may also be logged such as an item identifier a hash equivalent of the item and the like.

At a SEARCH TO BE PERFORMED CHECK OPERATION a determination is made as to whether a user desires to search information contained within one or more activity logs. If there is no current desire to search information contained within one or more activity logs a determination is made at a MORE ACTIVITY TO DETECT CHECK OPERATION as to whether there is more user activity to detect and log. If so flow proceeds again to DETECT USER ACTIVITY OPERATION . If there is no further user activity to detect the process ends at an EXIT OPERATION .

If at SEARCH TO BE PERFORMED OPERATION a search is to be performed logged data from other computing systems is optionally aggregated at an AGGREGATE INFORMATION FROM ACTIVITY SOURCES OPERATION . If optional SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION was not previously performed a SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION may be performed on the aggregated information. Alternatively even if optional SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION was previously performed SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION may again be performed on the aggregated information for example to update the previously assigned scores to reflect new scores based on new score criteria or for other reasons.

At a RECEIVE MULTIFACETED SEARCH INFORMATION AND PERFORM SEARCH OPERATION search parameters are received from a user and a search of the aggregated information is performed with the intent of receiving search results that include or match the search parameters. At a RECEIVE AND RANK RESULTS OPERATION the search results are received and items of information within those search results are then ranked according to previously determined criteria. At a PRESENT RESULTS TO THE USER OPERATION the ranked search results are presented to the user.

Now in more detail is a diagram of a client server system that includes an Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application executing on a computing system e.g. a first computing system in accordance with one embodiment. Computing system further includes an activity logfile which in one embodiment is a standalone file or which in one embodiment is instead a set of independent logfiles. In one embodiment activity logfile is presented as a standalone file and includes information such as an electronic data item identifier referencing an electronic data item a user activity identifier referencing a user activity performed on or with the electronic data item and an optional score.

In one embodiment various individual activity logfiles are presented as metadata saved with respective electronic data items as discussed below. An aggregator is optionally presented as part of computing system and can also or instead be a component of a computing system A or any other computing system N. Aggregator thus can be present on one computing system such as computing system or may be a component of all computing systems such as computing systems computing systems CS A . . . N or can alternatively be a component of any subset of computing systems wherever aggregation activities are intended to take place.

Computing system sometimes called a client or user device typically includes a central processing unit CPU hereinafter CPU an input output I O interface and a memory . As is known by those of skill in the art among other functions of a CPU such as CPU CPU executes applications stored in memory such as Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application .

Computing system may be a desktop computing system a handheld wireless computing system such as a smartphone or may be any other type of computing device.

Computing system may further include standard devices like a keyboard a mouse a printer and a display device as well as one or more standard input output I O devices such as a compact disk CD or DVD drive floppy disk drive or other digital or waveform port for inputting data to and outputting data from computing system . In one embodiment Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application is loaded into computing system via I O device such as from a CD DVD or floppy disk containing Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application . Alternatively activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application is loaded into computing system via network .

Computing system is coupled to a server system of client server system through network a wired and or wireless network known to those of skill in the art.

Also coupled to network are a plurality of computing systems CS A . . . N collectively computing systems . computing systems are similar to computing system and each include one or more of an Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application ATS an activity logfile AL and optionally an aggregator Agg as needed. In one embodiment computing systems represent computing systems operated by users other than a user of computing system for example users at the same company users that are part of the same work or study group at a school the public at large or any other collection of users. However in one embodiment an individual user may be associated with operate or control more than one computing system.

In one embodiment computing Systems and server system are similar to computing system for example and thus also include a central processing unit an input output I O interface and a memory. Different ones of the CPUs may be coupled to the same or different memories and may execute one or more different operations described herein. Thus computing processor executable instructions representing the different operations discussed herein may be distributed among different memories and executed accordingly by different CPUs.

CPU may perform as one example DETECT USER ACTIVITY OPERATION and another CPU such as a CPU associated with any of computing Systems and N and server system may perform for example IS THE DETECTED ACTIVITY OF INTEREST OPERATION and perhaps perform additional operations as well.

Computing Systems and server system may or may not further include standard devices like a keyboard a mouse a printer a display device and an I O device s . The various hardware components of computing systems and N and server system are not illustrated to avoid detracting from the principles of this embodiment.

Network can be any network or network system that is of interest to a user. In various embodiments network interface and I O interface include analog modems digital modems a network interface card or any other network interface known to those of skill in the art.

Computing system includes an activity logfile stored in memory . Activity logfile is a primary storage location for user activity related information.

From an ENTER OPERATION flow moves to aDETECT USER ACTIVITY OPERATION where user activity is detected on a computing system such as computing system . Such user activities include but are not limited to for example a user logging into the computing system a user opening an electronic data item such as a document or an electronic mail message and or printing the document a user scrolling through a document a user closing a document a user sending printing or receiving an electronic message or electronic mail. Other detectable user activities are known to those of ordinary skill.

Although reference is made to an electronic data item it is intended that electronic data item refer to any electronic information that an activity may be performed with or on. For example the act of a user opening an application involves the application possibly application data application configuration files and the like. Thus it is intended that electronic data item refer to any relevant electronic information executable or not within a computing system that is directly related to an activity a user performs. System configuration parameters determined by an administrator or user and system design will determine the focus of a given embodiment while remaining within the scope of this disclosure.

From DETECT USER ACTIVITY OPERATION flow proceeds to an IS THE DETECTED ACTIVITY OF INTEREST CHECK OPERATION where a determination is made as to whether the particular user activity is a user activity that is of interest and thus whether that user activity should be logged. It is contemplated that some activities such as a user logging into a computing system will not be of interest to some administrators of Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application while other activities may be of interest. Further some administrators may want to focus on a particular group of user activities and electronic data items while other administrators may wish to focus on a different group of user activities and electronic data items.

In one embodiment a list of activities is presented to a user or administrator of Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application and the user or administrator configures Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application to track some user activities and not others. In one embodiment one or more default configurations are provided for use in different situations.

For example in a situation where user activities are being tracked to determine how much time company employees spend creating sending receiving or reading electronic mail a configuration file indicating that electronic mail related activities are of interest may be employed while other user activities are deemed not to be of interest.

In a different situation electronic mail related user activities may be deemed to not be of interest but user activities relating to use of a web browser and the internet may be deemed to be of interest. In this second example a configuration file may be presented where electronic mail related user activities are deemed to not be of interest while web browser related user activities are deemed to be of interest. Other configurations may include for example deeming all activities to be of interest. Other combinations are possible and are well within the scope of this disclosure.

In some situations it may be desirable to track different activities for different users. In this embodiment user configuration information identifying different activities of interest for different specified users may also be configured by a user or administrator if desired.

If at IS THE DETECTED ACTIVITY OF INTEREST CHECK OPERATION the detected user activity is found to be of interest flow proceeds optionally to a SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION at which time a score is assigned to the item and user activity based on one or more criteria. In one embodiment scores and other information are contained in a score template which provides scores that may be assigned based on various activities that are performed on various electronic data items having various characteristics.

In one embodiment a default score template is used when scoring items and activities. In one embodiment a score template is received from an external computing system such as server system with the newly received score template replacing any previously used score template. Further in one embodiment following receipt of a new score template from an external source previously scored activities are rescored as if they had not previously been scored. Thus the information and score criteria used in the newly received score template is employed when scoring the previously logged user activity information.

In one embodiment a score may be assigned based solely on the user activity that was performed. Depending on the user activity the score to be assigned may be increased or decreased based on a length of time over which the user activity was performed. In one embodiment a normal period of time is predetermined and is not based on the length of the document. In one embodiment if a document was open for reading editing or for another reason the score assigned to the particular user activity is increased based on the document being open for longer than a normal period of time where the normal period of time is determined partly based on the length of the document. In one embodiment if a document was open for reading editing or for another reason the score assigned to the particular user activity is decreased based on the document being open for shorter than a normal period of time.

In one embodiment receiving an email with an attachment is a user activity of interest and the scoring of that user activity includes consideration of whether the attachment within the received email was opened and read by the user and how much of that attachment was read based on how far down the user scrolled within the received attachment.

Other activities which may or may not be of interest include receiving electronic mail having an embedded hyperlink and whether the hyperlink was clicked on resulting on a browser opening or other user activity occurring relating to displaying information at the hyperlinked web site. Whether or not the hyperlink was clicked on or otherwise activated for viewing by the user may affect the score.

In one embodiment an assigned score may be increased or decreased based on how much of the document was affected by the user activity. For example if the user activity involves scrolling through a document reading a document or any other activity involving reviewing or reading a document the respective assigned score may be increased by a first factor if more than 50 of the document was displayed indicating that the user likely read at least 50 of the document for example and may be increased by a second factor if more than 75 of the document had been displayed indicating that the user likely read at least 75 of the document for example . The factor may be multiplicative or additive. Thus if the normal score for reading a document is 20 and a factor associated with involving at least 50 of the document is 10 and is additive then a user reading at least 50 of a document would result in a score of 20 10 or a total of 30.

Alternatively if the factor is 30 and is multiplicative using the same example above the result is a score of 20 20 0.3 26.

In one embodiment an assigned score may be increased or decreased based on one or more characteristics of the electronic data item. Such characteristics include but are not limited to the importance of the electronic data item as determined by a user an importance of an electronic data item as determined by a sender of that electronic data item the subject line of an electronic mail being in upper case the number of recipients of an electronic mail being above or below a threshold and the identity or position of a sender within a company for example. Other characteristics may also trigger a higher or lower score while remaining within the scope of this disclosure.

In one example where an assigned score is increased or decreased based on an importance level attributed to the electronic data item if the user activity involves reading an electronic mail message marked as high importance by a sender to a user the assigned score is increased by a multiplicative or additive factor. In another example if the user activity involves reading an electronic mail message marked as low importance by a sender to a user the assigned score may be decreased by a multiplicative or additive factor.

Following optional SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION or following IS THE DETECTED ACTIVITY OF INTEREST CHECK OPERATION if SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION was not performed the user activity and optional score are logged at a WRITE INFORMATION TO LOGFILE OPERATION . In WRITE INFORMATION TO LOGFILE OPERATION any information desired to be analyzed later is logged and stored within activity logfile . Such logged information may include but is not limited to a user identifier identifying a user that is believed to have performed the user activity based on login information or from other information. Other logged information may include in one embodiment an item identifier a hash equivalent of the item or a representative portion of the item a time period over which the user activity was performed a time and date a beginning and ending time and date when the user activity was performed and the like.

Different information to be logged and whether the activity logfile is standalone or is instead metadata to be stored with the respective electronic data item may also be configurable by a user or administrator. If activity logfile is standalone it may include an item identifier for example. However if activity logfile is stored as metadata associated directly with the electronic data item an item identifier is not required to be stored in activity logfile since activity logfile in this embodiment is already directly associated with and stored with the electronic data item itself.

Following the storage of information in activity logfile at WRITE INFORMATION TO LOGFILE OPERATION flow proceeds to a SEARCH TO BE PERFORMED CHECK OPERATION where a determination is made as to whether a user desires to search the previously logged information. If at SEARCH TO BE PERFORMED CHECK OPERATION there is no current desire to search the logged information a determination is made at a MORE ACTIVITY TO DETECT OPERATION as to whether there is more user activity to detect and log. If so flow proceeds from MORE ACTIVITY TO DETECT OPERATION to a DETECT USER ACTIVITY OPERATION . If there is no further user activity to detect the process ends at an EXIT OPERATION .

If at SEARCH TO BE PERFORMED OPERATION a search is to be performed logged data from other computing systems is optionally aggregated at AGGREGATE INFORMATION FROM ACTIVITY SOURCES OPERATION .

Aggregating information essentially involves collecting information contained in the various activity logfile of the various computing systems such as computing systems and . Optionally once the information is collected from the various computing systems the information may be further integrated by combining the various individual logs into a single master aggregated log which includes the information collected from each of the individual activity logfile .

Recall that if the activity logfile of the various computing systems are metadata associated with individual electronic data files that there is no reason to include an item identifier or to otherwise identify items within activity logfile since the activity logfile in that scenario is directly stored as metadata with the electronic data item. Thus in this instance when data is aggregated from these systems item identifiers hash equivalents of the electronic data items themselves or some other electronic data item information is added to the aggregated data during the aggregation operation. Optionally user information identifying a primary user of the respective computing systems may also be added to activity logs if desired.

In one embodiment item identifiers are added to the data contained in the various individual activity logs as data is aggregated locally on each individual computing system prior to transmitting the locally aggregated data to an external computing system. Once that locally aggregated data is transmitted to the external computing system the data may either be further combined with locally aggregated data from other computing systems or kept separately depending on how the system operation is configured by the administrators and or users.

In one embodiment once activity logs are collected from the various individual computing system the individual activity logs are combined into a master activity log. is an exemplary activity log in accordance with one embodiment. In one embodiment activity logfile includes a date a user activity took place an information type relating to the electronic data item the activity was performed on information relating to the user activity itself an item code or item identifier representing the electronic data item the activity was performed with and user information sufficient to identify a user who performed the activity.

In one embodiment similar or identical activities performed by different users are combined by adding the various scores relating to those individual activities together and presenting the combined information as one line item entry in the master activity log. Thus if a user activity open document X was performed on three different computing systems and the scores relating to those activities were 10 14 and 19 varying due to factors that may have previously been applied the combined score is 43 for the new combined single entry in the master activity log.

In one embodiment combining information by user may be most appropriate. Thus in one embodiment scores relating to all activities performed by the same user even over different computing systems may be combined to identify users who have larger amounts of user activity. Thus a user that performed 4 activities two of which are identical may have for example scores of 12 51 32 and 9 for a user total of 104.

If optional SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION was not previously performed SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION may be performed on the aggregated information. Alternatively even if optional SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION was previously performed SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION may again be performed on the aggregated information for example to update the previously determined scores to reflect new scores based on new score criteria contained in a new score template configured on the computing system employed for the aggregation operation for example or for other reasons. The performance of SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION is accomplished in the same way as was previously described with respect to optional SCORE ACTIVITY OPERATION .

At RECEIVE MULTIFACETED SEARCH INFORMATION AND PERFORM SEARCH OPERATION search parameters are received from a user and a search of the aggregated information is performed with the intent of receiving results that include or match the search parameters. In one embodiment the search parameters include a score parameter which either includes certain information of the aggregated information from the search results or excludes certain information of the aggregated information from the search results based on the score associated with one or more electronic data items.

At RECEIVE AND RANK RESULTS OPERATION the results of the search are received and are then ranked according to previously determined ranking criteria. In one embodiment the ranking criteria comprises ranking based on the score attributed to each item.

If when logging user activity information in activity logs dates and times were recorded reports may be generated as to scores for particular users over a user or administrator defined time period for example. Alternatively if the data is combined by user activity as discussed above reports may be obtained by user activity over a user or administrator defined time period. Data and time periods may be supplied as defaults by the systems as well.

At PRESENT RESULTS TO THE USER OPERATION the ranked search results are presented to the user. In one embodiment the search results are presented to a user who ran the search at either a computing system where data aggregation took place where the search was initiated or any other computing system set forth in a configuration file. Once again a user or administrator may configure where and how results should be displayed or sent.

Referring again to Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application is in computer memory . As used herein a computer memory refers to a volatile memory a non volatile memory or a combination of the two.

Although Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application is referred to as an application this is illustrative only. Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application should be capable of being called from an application or the operating system. In one embodiment an application is generally defined to be any executable code. Moreover those of skill in the art will understand that when it is said that an application or an operation takes some action the action is the result of executing one or more instructions by a processor.

While embodiments have been described for a client server configuration an embodiment may be carried out using any suitable means and or hardware configuration involving a personal computer a workstation a portable device or a network of computer devices. Other network configurations other than client server configurations e.g. peer to peer web based intranet internet network configurations are used in other embodiments.

Herein a computer program product comprises a nontransitory computing system readable storage medium configured to store or transport computer readable code in accordance with an embodiment. Some examples of computing system readable storage mediums are CD ROM discs CDs DVDs ROM cards floppy discs magnetic tapes computer hard drives and servers on a network. Other examples of computing system readable storage mediums are known to those of ordinary skill.

As illustrated in this medium may belong to the computing system itself. However the medium also may be removed from the computing system. For example computing system readable storage medium may be stored in memory that is physically located in a location different from CPU . CPU is coupled to the memory . This may be accomplished in a client server system or alternatively via a connection to another computer via modems and analog lines or digital interfaces and a digital carrier line.

More specifically in one embodiment computing system and or server system is a portable computer a workstation a two way pager a cellular telephone a digital wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a server computer an Internet appliance or any other device that includes components that can execute the Activity Tracking System and Search Manager functionality in accordance with at least one of the embodiments as described herein. Similarly in another embodiment computing system and or server system each comprise multiple different computers wireless devices cellular telephones digital telephones two way pagers or personal digital assistants server computers or any desired combination of these devices that are interconnected to perform the methods as described herein.

In view of this disclosure Activity Tracking System and Search Manager functionality in accordance with one embodiment can be implemented in a wide variety of computing system configurations. In addition the Activity Tracking System and Search Manager functionality could be stored as different modules in memories of different devices. For example Activity Tracking System and Search Manager Application could initially be stored in server system and then as necessary a portion of Activity Tracking System and Search Manager application could be transferred to computing system and executed on computing system . Consequently part of the Activity Tracking System and Search Manager functionality would be executed on processor of server system and another part would be executed on processor of computing system . In view of this disclosure those of skill in the art can implement various embodiments in a wide variety of physical hardware configurations using an operating system and computer programming language of interest to the user.

In yet another embodiment Activity Tracking System and Search Manager application is stored in memory of server system . Activity Tracking System and Search Manager is transferred over network to memory in computing system . In this embodiment network interface and I O interface would include analog modems digital modems or a network interface card. If modems are used network includes a communications network and Activity Tracking System and Search Manager application is downloaded via the communications network.

This disclosure provides exemplary embodiments. The scope is not limited by these exemplary embodiments and features within each of the various embodiments may be combined with features from other embodiments. Numerous variations whether explicitly provided for by the specification or implied by the specification or not may be implemented by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure.

