---

title: Eliciting event-driven feedback in a social network
abstract: Particular embodiments detect events associated with information about activities that a user has engaged in. The activities may be associated with a location or location-agnostic. Based on the received information, the social-networking system sends the user a request for follow-up information after an appropriate time delay. The time delay may vary based on the user activity and the context of the event that triggered the request. After the follow-up information is received, such information is stored in the social-networking system and may be used to determine recommendations, sponsored stories, advertisements, etc. to send to friends of the user. The information may also be used for ranking or filtering recommendations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210228&OS=09210228&RS=09210228
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09210228
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
This disclosure generally relates to eliciting feedback from users and particularly to eliciting information from users for use in conjunction with a social networking system.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

Particular embodiments detect events associated with information about activities that a user has engaged in. The activities may be associated with a location or location agnostic. Based on the received information the social networking system sends the user a request for follow up information after an appropriate time delay. The time delay may vary based on the user activity and the context of the event that triggered the request. After the follow up information is received such information is stored in the social networking system and may be used to determine recommendations sponsored stories advertisements etc. to send to friends of the user. In particular embodiments the information may be used for ranking or filtering recommendations.

Particular embodiments detect events associated with information about an activity that a user has engaged in. The activity may be associated with a location or it may be location agnostic. Based on the received information the social networking system sends the user a request for follow up information after an appropriate time delay. The time delay may vary based on a determined reference date and time of the user activity the delay may also vary based on the context of the event that triggered the request. After the follow up information is received such information is stored in the social networking system and may be used to determine recommendations sponsored stories advertisements etc. to send to friends of the user. In particular embodiments the information may be used for ranking or filtering recommendations.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Embodiments of a social graph including user nodes concept nodes and edges are described in greater detail with respect to in related portions of the specification. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In a social networking user Michel Brillat Savarin associated with example computing device initiates an event by using a check in interface to provide information about an activity the social networking user is engaging in i.e. dining at a restaurant together with location based information. The user submits comment along with the check in event which is associated with the location of a restaurant Wakuriya . The social networking system receives the information and after determining that the user may have further information about the activity underlying the check in event sends the user a request for additional information.

The determination regarding whether the user may have further information about the activity underlying the check in event may be based at least on the type of activity as well as whether any information was provided in relation to the check in event and what was provided. In the example illustrated in the social networking system may determine that the user may have additional information to provide regarding their experience at the restaurant based on an assumption that the user probably purchased and consumed a meal at the restaurant. Alternatively the determination may be based on a verification by the restaurant that the social networking user did in fact purchase and consume a meal at the restaurant. Alternatively the determination may be based on the fact that the restaurant the entity associated with the check in action or perhaps even some third party organization e.g. a restaurant reviewing website may have requested that additional information be solicited from anyone performing a social action associated with that location.

In the example computing device displays a notifications window that includes a request for additional information related to the activity a review of your dining experience last night. In the example context illustrated by request was scheduled to be sent to the user 12 hours after the check in event. In this context the check in is presumed to be occurring in real time while the user is at the restaurant thereby providing a reference date and time of the user activity . The timing of request to the user is calculated to schedule delivery of request at an appropriate moment 1 reasonably promptly after the reference date and time of the user activity so as to ensure that the user s memory is fresh 2 but not too early when the user may still be in the middle of their meal or may be occupied with other activities later that evening such as going to a movie or a show .

Although request asks the user to submit a review related to the activity a review of their dining experience in particular embodiments request may ask for feedback in different formats such as by way of example and not limitation a rating e.g. a multi star rating a ranking a response to a multiple choice question submission of photos or video that the user may have taken of the activity a Like indication a recommendation or testimonial a click on a link that takes the user to an input interface etc. Furthermore although request relates to the user s dining experience the request may be related to more specific aspects of the activity such as the actual items consumed or purchased by the user or to other related aspects such as the service d cor convenience of nearby parking or transit appeal of the neighborhood around the restaurant etc.

After receiving the request shown in the social networking user Michel Brillat Savarin responds to the request by submitting a review of his dining experience. This information may be stored in association with any related nodes and edges of the social graph. In this example the review may be stored as a content item associated with the edge that represents the check in action that connects a user node for the social networking user to a concept node for the restaurant.

After the social networking user submits the additional information to the social networking system the social networking system may use the additional information to provide recommendations sponsored stories advertisements or other content and or functionality to social networking contacts of the social networking user. In example computing device which is associated with a social networking contact of the social networking user displays an advertisement and two notifications and . The content of advertisement may be based on the review submitted by the social networking user which may be focused on the specific menu selection described in advertisement the seasonal Matsutake Tasting Menu . Furthermore advertisement is provided to a targeted audience those social networking connections of the user who would be most likely to be interested in advertisement . The targeted audience may include those social connections of the user who are engaging in social actions and thereby generating notifications to the user related to restaurant dining. The delivery of advertisement to the user may also be indicative of the user s own interests. Notifications and reflect that the user of computing device is a social networking connection of the user of computing device Michel Brillat Savarin . The social networking user associated with computing device may be following the social networking user associated with computing device .

In particular embodiments where the advertisement is related to a particular location the targeted audience may be selected based on a location based ranking algorithm that determines for each user whether content or functionality related to the particular location should be provided to the user e.g. in a recommendation sponsored story advertisement or other medium .

In a social networking user Mark Poulsen associated with example computing device initiates an event by using a photo uploader interface to provide location based information. The user submits comment along with the uploaded photo which is associated with an online costume store Wonderland Occasions as well as being associated with another social networking user Alice Liddell . The social networking system receives the information and after determining that the user may have further information about the activity underlying the event sends the user a request for additional information.

The determination regarding whether the user may have further information about the activity may be based at least on the type of the activity as well as whether any information was provided in relation to the photo upload event and what was provided. In the example illustrated in the social networking system may determine that the social networking user may have additional information to provide regarding their activity online shopping based on an assumption that the user probably purchased one or more items while shopping. Alternatively the determination may be based on a verification by the online store that the social networking user did in fact purchase one or more items. Alternatively the determination may be based on the fact that the online store or a third party organization may have requested that additional information be solicited from anyone performing a social action associated with the website of the online store.

In the example computing device displays a notifications window that includes a request related to the activity whether you liked your shopping experience today. In the example context illustrated by request was scheduled to be sent to the user one hour after the photo upload event. In this context the photo upload is presumed to be occurring in real time as the user is finalizing his purchase of the costume thereby providing a reference date and time of the activity . In particular embodiments metadata or other information accompanying the uploaded photo may also or alternatively be analyzed to determine a reference date and time e.g. looking at a timestamp of the uploaded photo to determine when it was taken . The timing of request to the user is calculated to schedule delivery of request at an appropriate moment 1 reasonably promptly after the photo upload event so as to ensure that the user s memory is fresh 2 but not too early when the user may still be in the middle of shopping .

Although request asks the user to submit a review related to the activity a review of their shopping experience in particular embodiments request may ask for feedback in different formats such as by way of example and not limitation a rating related to the event for a response to a multiple choice question for any photos or video that the user may have taken in relation to the event for a Like indication of the event for a recommendation or testimonial for the user to click on a link that takes the user to an input interface etc. Furthermore although the request shown in relates to the user s shopping experience the request may be related to more specific aspects such as the actual items purchased by the user or to other related aspects such as the available selection of products sizes or colors the aesthetic appeal of the website the usability of the website etc.

After receiving the request shown in the social networking user Mark Poulsen responds to the request by indicating that the Liked his shopping experience with Wonderland Occasions. This information may be stored in association with any related nodes and edges of the social graph. In this example the Like indication may be stored in association with an edge that connects a user node for the social networking user to a concept node for the store.

Although depicts the request as being delivered in the form of a notification the request could also be delivered using a newsfeed an email a text message a pop up window or any other suitable medium.

After the user submits the additional information to the social networking system the social networking system may use the additional information to provide recommendations sponsored stories advertisements or other content and or functionality to social networking contacts of the social networking user. In example computing device which is associated with a social networking contact of the social networking user displays an advertisement and two notifications and . The content of advertisement may be based on the Like indication submitted by the social networking user as well as any information associated with the event i.e. attendance at Anime Expo . Furthermore advertisement is provided to a targeted audience those social networking connections of the user who would be most likely to be interested in advertisement . The targeted audience may include those social connections of the user who are engaging in social actions and thereby generating notifications to the user related to costumes cosplay and or related to Anime Expo. Alternatively the delivery of advertisements to a social networking user may also be indicative of the user s own interests. Notifications and reflect that the social networking user associated with computing device is a social networking connection of the social networking user associated with computing device Mark Poulsen . Alternatively the social networking user associated with computing device may be following the social networking user associated with computing device .

To target users with advertisements particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in the following which are all incorporated herein by reference as examples and not by way of limitation U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2009 0119167 entitled Social Advertisements and Other Informational Messages on a Social Networking Website and Advertising Model for Same and filed 18 Aug. 2008 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 193 702 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2009 0070219 entitled Targeting Advertisements in a Social Network and filed 20 Aug. 2008 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 195 321 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0158501 entitled Targeting Social Advertising to Friends of Users Who Have Interacted With an Object Associated with the Advertising and filed 15 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 968 786 or U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0166532 entitled Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System and filed 23 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format presented on one or more web pages in one or more e mails or in connection with search results requested by a user . In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories e.g. a news feed or ticker item on social networking system . A sponsored story may be a social action by a user such as liking a page liking or commenting on a post on a page RSVPing to an event associated with a page voting on a question posted on a page checking in to a place using an application or playing a game or liking or sharing a website that an advertiser promotes by for example having the social action presented within a pre determined area of a profile page of a user or other page presented with additional information associated with the advertiser bumped up or otherwise highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may pay to have the social action promoted. The social action may be promoted within or on social networking system . In addition or as an alternative the social action may be promoted outside or off of social networking system where appropriate. In particular embodiments a page may be an on line presence such as a webpage or website within or outside of social networking system of a business organization or brand facilitating its sharing of stories and connecting with people. A page may be customized for example by adding applications posting stories or hosting events.

A sponsored story may be generated from stories in users news feeds and promoted to specific areas within displays of users web browsers when viewing a web page associated with social networking system . Sponsored stories are more likely to be viewed by users at least in part because sponsored stories generally involve interactions or suggestions by the users friends fan pages or other connections. In connection with sponsored stories particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 327 557 entitled Sponsored Stories Unit Creation from Organic Activity Stream and filed 15 Dec. 2011 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0203831 entitled Sponsored Stories Unit Creation from Organic Activity Stream and filed 3 Feb. 2012 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 020 745 or U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0233009 entitled Endorsement Subscriptions for Sponsored Stories and filed 9 Mar. 2011 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 044 506 which are all incorporated herein by reference as an example and not by way of limitation. In particular embodiments sponsored stories may utilize computer vision algorithms to detect products in uploaded images or photos lacking an explicit connection to an advertiser as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 212 356 entitled Computer Vision Content Detection for Sponsored Stories and filed 18 Aug. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference as an example and not by way of limitation.

Third party content objects may be advertisements generated by one or more third parties such as for example a business organization or individual. The third party may provide payment to highlight particular third party content objects or sponsored stories. The third party content objects may include an informational content object incentive content object or a combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation a sponsored story may include an address of a particular business and link to a bar or quick response QR code that provides a discount on a purchase at the particular business. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a notification with particular content and layout this disclosure contemplates any notification with any suitable content and layout.

As described above an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format. In particular embodiments an advertisement may be requested for display within third party webpages social networking system webpages or other pages. An advertisement may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page such as in a banner area at the top of the page in a column at the side of the page in a GUI of the page in a pop up window over the top of content of the page or elsewhere with respect to the page. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be displayed within an application or within a game. An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages requiring the user to interact with or watch the advertisement before the user may access a page utilize an application or play a game. The user may for example view the advertisement through a web browser.

A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may click or otherwise select the advertisement and the advertisement may direct the user or a browser or other application being used by the user to a page associated with the advertisement . At the page associated with the advertisement the user may take additional actions such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement receiving information associated with the advertisement or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the advertisement . An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of the advertisement like a play button . In particular embodiments an advertisement may include one or more games which a user or other application may play in connection with the advertisement . An advertisement may include functionality for responding to a poll or question in the advertisement .

An advertisement may include social networking system functionality that a user may interact with. For example an advertisement may enable a user to like or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link associated with endorsement. Similarly a user may share the advertisement with another user e.g. through social networking system or RSVP e.g. through social networking system to an event associated with the advertisement . In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may include social networking system context directed to the user. For example an advertisement may display information about a friend of the user within social networking system who has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement .

Social networking system functionality or context may be associated with an advertisement in any suitable manner. For example an advertising system which may include hardware software or both for receiving bids for advertisements and selecting advertisements in response may retrieve social networking functionality or context from social networking system and incorporate the retrieved social networking functionality or context into the advertisement before serving the advertisement to a user. Examples of selecting and providing social networking system functionality or context with an advertisement are disclosed in U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0084160 entitled Providing Social Endorsements with Online Advertising and filed 5 Oct. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 898 662 and in U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0232998 entitled Selecting Social Endorsement Information for an Advertisement for Display to a Viewing User and filed 8 Mar. 2011 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 043 424 which are both incorporated herein by reference as examples only and not by way of limitation. Interacting with an advertisement that is associated with social networking system functionality or context may cause information about the interaction to be displayed in a profile page of the user in social networking system .

An advertisement may be presented or otherwise delivered using plug ins for web browsers or other applications iframe elements news feeds tickers notifications which may include for example e mail Short Message Service SMS messages or other notifications or other means. An advertisement may be presented or otherwise delivered to a user on a mobile or other computing device of the user. In connection with delivering advertisements particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in the following which are all incorporated herein by reference as examples and not by way of limitation U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0159635 entitled Comment Plug In for Third Party System and filed 15 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 368 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0158753 entitled Comment Ordering System and filed 15 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 408 U.S. Pat. No. 7 669 123 entitled Dynamically Providing a News Feed About a User of a Social Network and filed 11 Aug. 2006 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 242 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2008 0040475 entitled Providing a News Feed Based on User Affinity in a Social Network Environment and filed 11 Aug. 2006 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0072428 entitled Action Clustering for News Feeds and filed 16 Sep. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 884 010 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2001 0004692 entitled Gathering Information about Connections in a Social Networking Service and filed 1 Jul. 2009 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 496 606 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2008 0065701 entitled Method and System for Tracking Changes to User Content in an Online Social Network and filed 12 Sep. 2006 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 531 154 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2008 0065604 entitled Feeding Updates to Landing Pages of Users of an Online Social Network from External Sources and filed 17 Jan. 2007 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 624 088 U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 848 entitled Integrated Social Network Environment and filed 19 Apr. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2011 0083101 entitled Sharing of Location Based Content Item in Social Networking Service and filed 6 Oct. 2009 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 844 entitled Location Ranking Using Social Graph Information and filed 18 Aug. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 858 718 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 051 286 entitled Sending Notifications to Users Based on Users Notification Tolerance Levels and filed 18 Mar. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 184 entitled Managing Notifications Pushed to User Devices and filed 28 Apr. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 276 248 entitled Platform Specific Notification Delivery Channel and filed 18 Oct. 2011 or U.S. Patent Appln. Publ. No. US 2012 0197709 entitled Mobile Advertisement with Social Component for Geo Social Networking System and filed 1 Feb. 2011 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 019 061. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular advertisements being delivered in particular ways and in connection with particular content this disclosure contemplates any suitable advertisements delivered in any suitable ways and in connection with any suitable content.

In step the social networking system receives information about an event associated with an activity of a user of the SN. The activity underlying the event may be associated with a location e.g. checking in to a restaurant uploading a photo associated with location data registering for an event purchasing a product or service at a physical location or simply providing real time location data for a user or it may be location agnostic e.g. liking a movie or a product following or becoming a fan of a web page an entity or a person joining a group indicating an interest or interacting with something or someone online . Such information may be received through different active or passive channels check in tagging content with a location liking something auto detection via RFID or WiFi activity logging data received or retrieved from a third party system or server etc. Users may submit such information for themselves in some embodiments such information may be submitted on behalf of a user e.g. being checked in by a friend .

In step the social networking system determines that the user may have further information about the activity. This determination may be based on a type of the user activity the event and associated information or on other relevant factors. In particular embodiments events and or user activities may be classified into categories for the purpose of facilitating this determination. The determination may be based on a verification that the SN user completed particular activities e.g. complete a purchase after placing an item in a shopping cart or engaged in other related activities e.g. watched a second episode of a television show after watching a first episode . Alternatively the determination may be based on the fact that an entity associated with the event or perhaps even some third party organization may have requested that additional information be solicited from anyone performing a social action associated with that entity or with that location.

In step the social networking system determines a time to send a request for additional information. The timing of the request may be based on a number of different factors such as by way of example and not limitation a reference date and time of the user activity a type of the user activity a location of the user activity an object of the user activity or other information or metadata associated with the user activity. The timing of the request is calculated to schedule delivery of the request to the user at an appropriate moment 1 reasonably promptly after the reference date and time so as to ensure that the user s memory of the activity is fresh 2 but not too early when the user may still be in the middle of the activity or may be occupied with other activities .

In step the social networking system sends the user the request for additional information related to the event at the determined time. The time delay may vary based on the context of the event that triggered the request. For the purpose of calculating the time delay the request triggering event may be a user action or a user related event detected by the SN e.g. check in or photo upload or status update or an action about which the SN was notified by a third party system e.g. a purchase or upload of content . Alternatively the request triggering event may be an action or event described in or otherwise associated with

For example as shown in the example use case illustrated in if a user submitted a check in for a restaurant the SN may send the user a message requesting a review or rating of the restaurant 12 hours later or the next day. Alternatively the request may be for a review or rating of a particular dish at the restaurant that the user ordered. In another example as shown in the example use case illustrated in if a user tags an uploaded photo with the location of a local clothing store the SN may send the user a message an hour after the tag event asking if the user wants to Like the store. Alternatively the message may be sent an hour after the upload event if the store can be identified from the photo e.g. by performing image analysis on the photo . Alternatively the message may ask if the user wants to Like the items that they purchased.

In another example if the user completes a purchase of an on demand movie for a particular showtime the SN may send the user a message requesting a review or rating of the movie within 30 minutes of the scheduled end of the movie showing at that particular showtime.

In another example if the user downloads a single multi player online game onto their mobile device after detecting that the user has played the game in single player mode for several days the SN may send the user a message asking the user if they would be interested in playing the game in multi player mode. If the user indicates that they would the SN may request further information from the user such as asking the user if they want to join particular groups of players or asking the user if they want to broadcast an invitation to their social networking connections to play the online game with the user.

In another example if the user organizes a speed dating event where each participant at the speed dating event meets another participant for five minutes before moving on to the next participant the SN may send each participant an immediate message at the end of each five minute session requesting a rating or comments related to the person they just met. In a further example if a participant rates another participant highly the SN may asked the participant if they are willing to release their contact information to the other participant after the event.

In another example at a convention or trade show RFID or NFC transmitters may detect attendees as they approach each booth and notify the SN. Since attendees at a convention or trade show have a tendency to wander around and may spend anywhere from one second to fifteen minutes or even longer at a booth the SN may send each participant an immediate message upon receiving the notification requesting a rating or comments or response to a multiple choice question related to the booth or station. In the situation where an attendee merely passed by a booth but failed to linger such an immediate message may help to elicit negative feedback that can help explain why someone was not interested in a particular booth. In another example the SN may send such a message only if the attendee is detected as lingering at the booth for longer than some designated time period.

The time delay may vary based on a type of node associated with the location based on a type of content associated with the location based on the method action by which the information was received etc.

In step the social networking system receives the additional information. The additional information may be received by way of an interface provided by the SN e.g. Like indication or another method e.g. email or third party online interface .

In step the social networking system stores the additional information in the SN. In particular embodiments the additional information may be stored in association with the user and also in association with another user or a concept. For example if the user responded to a request for a restaurant rating and or review the user s response may be stored in the social graph in association with the user s node and also in association with a concept node associated with the restaurant.

In step the social networking system uses the additional information together with the information associated with the event to provide recommendations sponsored stories advertisements and other content and or functionality to social networking connections of the user. In particular embodiments the information may be used for ranking or filtering recommendations.

The social networking system may receive advertisements from an advertiser for delivery to users of a social networking system. The advertisement may be received from a vendor or retailer. The advertisement may comprise any type of content for example and not by way of limitation text graphics video audio other multimedia content. The advertisement may also be linked to a promotion associated with the vendor or retailer and the promotion may be described or alluded to in the content e.g. 10 off buy one get one half off click before the link expires in the next 10 seconds refer two friends for 20 off your next purchase .

The social networking system may receive third party content objects from one or more third parties such as for example a business organization or individual. As used herein third party content objects include any suitable content object generated by a third party in contrast to content objects generated by user nodes of the social graph. The third party content objects may be advertisement that includes informational content objects such as movie show times movie reviews sale information restaurant menus etc. as well as incentive content objects such as for example coupons discount tickets gift certificates etc. In particular embodiments third party content objects may be a combination of informational content and incentive content objects. In particular embodiments a third party may provide payment to highlight particular third party content objects or sponsored stories . The sponsored stories may be presented to the user in response to activity initiated by one or more user nodes in the social graph of the user. As an example and not by way of limitation when a user node in the social graph checks in at a particular location a third party content object associated with the particular location may be presented to user. As another example a third party content object may be presented to the user in response to a user node in the social graph sharing content from an application that has paid for the sponsored story.

The social networking system may determine relevance scores for advertisements with respect to the user based on the assessment of notifications described above and or any specified criteria for a target audience. The relevance score may be based at least in part on location value interest value connection value and time value. Third party content objects may be assigned to categories locations or delivery time ranges by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation categories may be established by the social networking system that reflect interests of users of social networking system . In particular embodiments social networking system may assign multiple categories to each third party content object. In particular embodiments a location may be assigned to third party content objects. A location may be general such as for example a city or specific such as for example a particular street name intersection or GPS coordinate. One or more locations may be assigned to each third party content object. In particular embodiments a delivery time range may be assigned to a third party content object. The delivery time range may reflect appropriate hours for the third party content object. As an example and not by way of limitation if the third party content object is a coupon for a particular business that is open only in the morning the range for the notification likely would correspond to the operating hours of the particular business or some other useful range related to the operating hours e.g. fifteen minutes before opening to thirty minutes before closing.

Social networking system may determine a time value for a third party content object based on whether the current time is within the delivery time range for the third party content object. In particular embodiments social networking system determines a location value for a third party content object based on the proximity between the third party content object location and a current location associated with client device . As an example and not by way of limitation a coupon for a discount on a movie ticket at a particular movie theater chain may apply to all theaters in the chain or a particular theater.

In particular embodiments the social networking system determines a connection value for a third party content object based at least in part on the user nodes and connections of the social graph associated with the third party content object as described above. As an example and not by way of limitation a connection associated with the third party content object may include information or a coupon for a business that a user node of the social is frequenting e.g. a user node of the social graph is at the frozen yogurt store that the incentive applies to. In particular embodiments the processing module of the content engine may modify the connection values by applying one or more weighting factors. As an example and not by way of limitation a degree of separation between user nodes of the social graph and the user may affect the connection value. As another example the type of connection between the user and the user nodes of the social graph user may affect the connection value. As an example and not by way of limitation friendship type connections may be associated with a higher connection value than a work colleague type connection. Although this disclosure describes a relevance score based on particular types of values this disclosure contemplates a relevance score based on any suitable types of values.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a relevance score based at least in part on whether the category or categories assigned to the third party content object coincide with the category or categories associated with the user s interests. In particular embodiments the relevance score may be based on information associated with an object in the social graph of the user information associated with an action taken with respect to the social graph or information related to the user that is received at social networking system from a third party. As an example and not by way of limitation an object in the social graph may include a user or concept profile or information associated with a user node that is connected to the user. As another example an action may include friending unfriending a user node liking a content object becoming a fan of a third party joining a group or community of users on social networking system or visiting a website of a third party. As another example third party information may include information of activity of the user or purchases by the user on a third party website. Although this disclosure describes a relevance score based on particular information or actions associated with the user this disclosure contemplates a relevance score based on any suitable information or actions associated with the user. Determination of relevance scores is discussed in further detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 976 859 filed 22 Dec. 2010 and titled Timing for Providing Relevant Notifications for a User Based on User Interaction with Notifications which is incorporated herein by reference.

In particular embodiments the relevance score is based at least in part to an affinity for the user with respect to the object of the social graph as described above. As an example and not by way of limitation affinity for past present or future content may be determined by the processing module of the content engine based on user activities activities of the user nodes of the social graph or associated connections or any combination thereof. Any type of variable may be considered when determining affinity to weight the aggregated consolidated data. In particular embodiments affinity may be calculated using a weighted set of predictor functions. Predictor functions predict whether the user will perform a particular action. The predictor functions may predict any number of actions which may be within or outside of the social networking system. In particular embodiments the processing module ranks the aggregated consolidated data by relevance score to dynamically generate content personalized for the users of social networking system . In particular embodiments the processing module of the content engine may combine the location value interest value connection value and time value to determine the relevance score for the third party content object with respect to the user. The dynamically generated content personalized for the users of social networking system may be stored in a data store described above.

Determination and use of measures of affinity are discussed in further detail in the following U.S. patent applications all of which are incorporated herein by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 502 757 filed on 11 Aug. 2006 titled Generating a Feed of Stories Personalized for Members of a Social Network and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 827 208 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 645 481 filed on 23 Dec. 2009 and titled Selection and Presentation of Related Social Networking System Content and Advertisements U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 247 825 filed on 28 Sep. 2011 and titled Instantaneous Recommendation of Social Interactions in a Social Networking System U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 976 755 filed on 22 Dec. 2010 and titled Pricing Relevant Notifications Provided to a User Based on Location and Social Information U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on 23 Dec. 2010 and titled Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 632 869 filed on 1 Oct. 2012 and titled Mobile Device Related Measures of Affinity. 

The social networking system may select advertisement s for delivery to the user based on the relevance scores. The processing module of the content engine may select particular third party content objects e.g. advertisements based on the relevance score for the third party content object with respect to the user.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may utilize a location based ranking algorithm to assess the additional information together with the information associated with the event. The algorithm may comprise a linear model that computes a value for each of a set of factors then applies weights to the factors to come up with an overall ranking score. In particular embodiments certain factors may be evaluated on a binary basis while others are assessed along a gamut e.g. linear exponential bell curve . Factors may include any aspect of a particular location including both physical aspects and virtual aspects such as by way of example and not limitation 

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a Wi Fi network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

