---

title: Computing device interaction with visual media
abstract: In general, techniques and systems for retrieving supplemental information associated with visual media are described. In one example, a method includes obtaining, by a computing device, position information from a position device using near-field communication (NFC), wherein the position information identifies a position of the position device in relation to a portion of visual media associated with the position device. The method may also include receiving, by the computing device, supplemental information that is provided by a networked device based at least in part on the position information, wherein the supplemental information comprises additional information related to the portion of the visual media. In some examples, the position device is included within an array of position devices mounted behind the visual media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08565791&OS=08565791&RS=08565791
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08565791
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 594 227 filed Feb. 2 2012 the entire content of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to retrieving information associated with visual media using a computing device.

A user may interact with applications executing on a computing device e.g. mobile phone tablet computer smart phone or the like . For instance a user may install view or delete an application on a computing device.

In some instances a user may use a mobile computing device e.g. mobile phone tablet computer smart phone or the like to communicate with other devices or systems. For instance a user may transmit information from the mobile device to a remote computing device.

In one example a method includes obtaining by a computing device position information from a position device using near field communication wherein the position information identifies a position of the position device in relation to a portion of visual media associated with the position device and receiving by the computing device supplemental information that is provided by a networked device based at least in part on the position information wherein the supplemental information comprises additional information related to the portion of the visual media.

In another example a computer readable storage medium is encoded with instructions that cause one or more processors of a computing device to perform operations to obtain by the computing device position information from a position device using near field communication wherein the position information identifies a position of the position device in relation to a portion of visual media associated with the position device and receive by the computing device supplemental information that is provided by a networked device based at least in part on the position information wherein the supplemental information comprises additional information related to a portion of the visual media.

In another example a computing device includes a near field communication module configured to obtain position information from a position device using near field communication wherein the position information identifies a position of the position device in relation to a portion of visual media associated with the position device and a processor configured to receive supplemental information that is provided by a networked device based at least in part on the position information wherein the supplemental information comprises additional information related to the portion of the visual media.

In another example a method includes obtaining by a computing device information from a position device using near field communication wherein the information identifies a position of the position device within an array of position devices associated with a visual representation of a control parameter that at least partially defines operation of a target device and transmitting the information from the computing device to a networked device configured to adjust the control parameter based at least in part on the information.

In another example a computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions that cause one or more processors of a computing device to obtain information from a position device using near field communication wherein the information identifies a position of the position device within an array of position devices associated with a visual representation of a control parameter that at least partially defines operation of a target device and transmit the information from the computing device to a networked device configured to adjust the control parameter based at least in part on the information.

In another example a computing device includes a near field communication module configured to obtain information from a position device using near field communication wherein the information identifies a position of the position device within an array of position devices associated with a visual representation of a control parameter that at least partially defines operation of a target device and at least one processor configured to transmit the information from the computing device to a networked device configured to adjust the control parameter based at least in part on the information.

The details of one or more aspects of this disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general this disclosure is directed to techniques for distributing supplemental information related to visual media to a computing device. Typically a printed poster or advertisement may include a printed code or an attached short range communication tag to allow a user to access different information e.g. over a network than the information provided by the printed poster. The user may be able to access information related to several different areas of the printed poster but each area of the poster includes a separate code or tag that provides information about the respective areas of the printed poster. The poster also visually indicates where each code or tag is located on the poster so that the user can find and access each code or tag. This indication may interfere with the visual presentation and aesthetics of the printed poster.

Techniques of this disclosure may in various instances facilitate access to supplemental information related to portions of visual media using one or more position devices e.g. near field communication NFC tags . Visual media e.g. a printed poster or electronic display may be mounted to a mounting surface that includes one or more position devices. The position devices may be arranged in an array covering a substantial portion of the mounting surface. The visual media may then be registered mapped or otherwise associated to the mounting surface such that a position of a particular position device may correlate to a particular portion of the visual media. The visual media then does not need to include separate codes or tags to distribute supplemental information to a user. Instead the visual media may be replaced with different visual media having portions that are again associated with the array of position devices.

A user may retrieve supplemental information related to one or more portions of the visual media using the one or more position devices e.g. passive NFC tags of the mounting surface. For example the user may place a computing device e.g. a mobile device in proximity to a portion of the visual media that interests the user. The computing device may then obtain position information from the position devices nearest the computing device on the mounting surface behind the visual media. The computing device may transmit the position information to a networked device e.g. a server and subsequently receive based on the position information supplemental information related to the portion of the visual media that interested the user. To retrieve supplemental information related to portions of the visual media between position devices a sensor within the computing device may detect movement of the computing device from the previous position device. The computing device may then transmit information that includes or indicates the detected movement and obtain new position information to resolve the user intended portion of the visual media based on the detected movement.

In addition to obtaining supplemental information using position devices this disclosure also describes techniques for controlling a target device using a plurality of position devices. Typically a target device e.g. an entertainment system or room lighting control system may be controlled using a controller that adjusts one or more control parameters of the target device e.g. volume channel source or lighting level . However wired controllers require wires to be mounted between the controller and the target device and wireless controllers still require a power cable or other battery power source. Due to these constraints conventional controllers may be inconvenient or impossible to install at certain desired locations within a room building or other space.

Techniques of this disclosure may in various instances enable a computing device to obtain information from position devices e.g. passive near field communication NFC tags to control a parameter of a target device. A plurality of position devices may be associated with a visual representation of the control parameter to create a virtual controller. The computing device may move across the visual representation of the virtual controller in an action that may simulate moving a physical control button e.g. a slide knob or rotating knob . As the computing device moves with respect to the visual representation the computing device may obtain information from one or more of the position devices of the virtual controller as the computing device moves past each position device. In response to obtaining this information the computing device may transmit the information to a networked device. Based on the transmitted information the networked device may adjust the actual control parameter of target device. In this manner virtual controllers may be placed anywhere in a room building or even outdoors without the need for wired connections or power supplies.

In addition to obtaining information from one or more position devices of the virtual controller the computing device may utilize one or more sensors to resolve a more detailed position of the computing device with respect to the visual representation of the virtual controller. For example the computing device may utilize an onboard accelerometer to detect accelerations such as magnitude and direction of the computing device after obtaining information from at least one of the position devices. By integrating the acceleration data over time the computing device may be able to calculate the distance that the computing device has moved from the previous position device and transmit that distance to the networked device. The networked device may then correct the determined position of the computing device with respect to the visual representation and update the control parameter of the target device accordingly. The detected movement may provide more detailed adjustment of the control parameter and or reduce the number of position devices used within the virtual controller.

Computing device may include a short range communication module not shown capable of initiating wireless communication with position device over a relatively short distance. For example this short distance may be less than 100 meters less than 10 meters less than 1 meter or even less than 10 centimeters. In some examples computing device may initiate communication with a position device when computing device is within e.g. 5 centimeters of the position device. In this example a user may place computing device directly over or even touching visual media such that computing device may communicate with the position device at that particular location of computing device . If the user moves computing device across visual media computing device may communicate with different position devices as computing device is moved.

As shown in position devices are arranged in an array behind visual media . The array of position devices may be arranged with any number of devices and in pattern such as grids rows arcs circles diagonals and the like. In other examples system may include only one position device . With a singular position device computing device may detect movement of the computing device from the position device in order to determine the actual position of computing device in relation to the position device after the movement. Since each position device may be relatively simple and configured to communicate with any number of computing devices computing device may be capable of establishing communication with hundreds thousands or even millions of different position devices.

As described herein position devices may be capable of short range communication. One example of short range communication is near field communication NFC . NFC communication can occur between two devices in different modes. For example computing device may operate in at least two different modes to communicate with position devices using NFC. For example computing device and position devices may be configured to operate in a passive mode and an active mode of operation. In an active mode of operation computing device may generate a first alternating magnetic field that is received by one of position devices in physical proximity to computing device . In response position device may generate a second alternating magnetic field that is received by computing device . In this way data may be communicated between computing device and position device such as using peer to peer communication. In the active mode computing device may also power or activate a passive device to retrieve data from the passive device as further described below. In this manner position device may include passive near field communication hardware.

In a passive mode of operation load modulation techniques may be employed to facilitate data communication between computing device and position device . In a passive mode position device does not actively generate an alternating magnetic field in response to the alternating magnetic field of computing device but generates an alternating magnetic field as a result of the induced voltage and applied load at the receiver of position device . Instead position device may include electrical hardware e.g. an NFC module that generates a change in impedance in response to the alternating magnetic field generated by computing device . For example computing device may generate an alternating magnetic field that is received by position device . Electrical hardware in position device may generate a change in impedance in response to the alternating magnetic field. The change in impedance may be detected by the NFC module of computing device . In this way load modulation techniques may be used by computing device to obtain position information from each of position devices . In other words computing device may obtain position information from position device but position device would not receive any data from computing device in the passive mode. Other well known modulation techniques including phase modulation and or amplitude modulation resulting from load modulation may also be employed to facilitate data communication between computing device and position device in other examples.

Generally each of position devices may operate in passive mode. In passive mode position devices may be referred to as NFC tags or NFC targets. In other words computing device may include active NFC hardware and position devices may include passive NFC hardware. Since a passive position devices do not need a dedicated power supply position devices may be placed in a variety of locations on any surface or even as part of smaller items. For example position devices may be embodied as a sticker or adhesive poster that is placed on the wall of a building or on a mounting surface to which visual media is attached. Passive position devices may also be less expensive and more difficult to corrupt with computing device . In this manner position devices may include electrical hardware that generates a change in impedance in response to an alternating magnetic field. However each of position devices may be another computing device in other examples. For example position devices may each be a computing device that operates in a passive NFC mode and or an active NFC mode. In other words position devices may include active NFC hardware. This active NFC hardware may be configured to emulate passive NFC hardware or participate in active near field communication.

In an example of a passive position device position device may deliver position information to computing device in response to receiving an alternating magnetic field generated by the NFC module of computing device . In other words position information may be data stored on position device . Upon receiving the alternating magnetic field e.g. receiving power sufficient to transmit data computing device may receive position information . In this manner position device may only be capable of delivering or sending position information when computing device is within close physical proximity to each respective position device . Although the user may physically touch bump or tap computing device to position devices computing device may be capable of receiving position information from position devices without physically touching position devices .

Position information may include the relative position of that particular position device transmitting the position information within the array of position devices. In other words position information may be different for each of the position devices . Since the position information for each position device is unique from each other the position information may be used to identify the particular portion of visual media over which computing device has been placed by the user. Although position information may include a unique position of the respective position device all position devices associated with visual media may also or instead include the same information that indicates the association with visual media .

Visual media may be any structure that provides visual information to a user. For example visual media may be a printed poster printed flyer coated surface electronic media e.g. a liquid crystal display or any other surface that includes visual information such as text numbers images and the like. Visual media may be directed to a single subject e.g. a movie advertisement or a restaurant menu or visual media may include multiple subjects e.g. different store advertisements or coupons . In any case visual media may be changed over time while each of position devices may include the same position information over time. Alternatively visual media may take the form of a weekly sales poster an interactive item list for adding items to a shopping list a building directory or even photos of different people. Obtaining position information from any position devices associated with any of these items within visual media may prompt remote server to transmit supplemental information associated with the item of visual media .

Since position devices may be located or positioned underneath or behind visual media each of position devices may indicate over which area of visual media computing device is located. Visual media may be registered or otherwise mapped to the positions of position devices using a networked service or other system that associates portions of visual media to one or more portion devices . By merely moving computing device over a portion of visual media the user may obtain supplemental information from the position device associated with that portion of visual media . Position devices may be disposed behind visual media or otherwise out of sight of the user. Since position devices may be arranged in a pattern behind visual media computing device obtains position information from a position device without the user needing to know where any of the position devices are located.

Position information may include any information or data necessary for remote server to identify the array of position devices and the specific position of the interrogated position device within the array of position devices. Position information may be in the form of a uniform resource locator URL that includes a domain associated with position devices and coordinates of the interrogated position device for example. An example URL may include the domain of remote server a destination of the service that maps position devices to visual media and coordinates of a specific position device. This example URL may take the form of http www.domain.com posterservice coord x 12 y 25. The x and y coordinates e.g. x 12 and y 25 may indicate the relative location of the position device within the array of position devices responsible for transmitting the obtained position information . Alternatively position information may include other identifying information that identifies the group or array of position devices and the relative location of the particular position device within the array.

Once computing device obtains position information from at least one position device computing device may transmit position information to remote server using network . Network may be any wired or wireless network that allows computing device to access another computing device and or the Internet. For example computing device may connect to network to transmit position information to remote server . Remote server may then access remote database to identify the association of the position device with a particular portion of visual media and retrieve the associated supplemental information. Remote server may then transmit the supplemental information to computing device using network . When computing device receives the supplemental information from remote server computing device may display or otherwise present the supplemental information to the user. In one example computing device may use user interface to present the supplemental information to the user. However computing device may additionally or alternatively use other output devices to present visual audio or even tactile feedback to the user according to the supplemental information.

In this manner the ability of computer device to access supplemental information using network may increase an amount of information a variety of information and an accuracy of information available to the user based on the visual media. In other words visual media may not need to present every piece of information to the user. Instead visual media may be used to catch the user s attention and allow the user to retrieve the supplemental information as desired. The supplemental information may be more detailed more recently updated or provide interactive information that would otherwise be unavailable on visual media . For example the supplemental information may include links to purchase an item coupons or upcoming scheduled events for the subject matter of the visual media . Since the supplemental information is stored by remote server the supplemental information may be updated or changed at any time without physically altering visual media or any of position devices . In other words the supplemental information may be managed in a central server e.g. remote server a central database e.g. remote database or any web based resource.

User interface may include an input device and an output device so that the user can communicate with computing device . In one example user interface may be a touch screen interface. In other examples user interface may include a display and one or more buttons pads joysticks mice or any other device capable of turning user actions into electrical signals that control computing device . In addition computing device may include one or more microphones speakers cameras or tactile feedback devices to deliver information to the user or receive information. In any example the user may interact with user interface to provide input during the check in process. For example user interface may present the supplemental information to the user.

The position information and supplemental information may be managed by a service. This service may be Internet based and accessed by the user using an application web browser or any other user interface that enables the user to interact with the service. In some cases the service may be accessed through a standalone application that is launched in response to position information and operates with the operating system of computing device . Alternatively the application may be a sub routine built into an operating system running on computing device . In any case computing device may access the service to transmit position information and receive the supplemental information. The service may directly deliver the supplemental information or the service may redirect a web browser of computing device for example such that computing device may receive the supplemental information from a different server and or repository. Although a standalone application may be used to access the services the operating system may include the required functionality to directly interface with the social networking service e.g. directly calling application programming interfaces APIs of the service with the operating system of computing device .

Computing device may also include techniques to handle errors when obtaining position information transmitting the obtained position information and or receiving the supplemental information. For example computing device may not recognize or be able to interpret position information received from one of position devices . In this event computing device may prompt the user via user interface to address this error in position information . For example user interface may prompt the user to reposition computing device near the desired portion of visual media or enable short range communication if the feature is not enabled.

Remote server and remote database may each include one or more servers or databases respectively. In this manner remote server and remote database may be embodied as any hardware necessary to receive position information store the association between position devices and visual media or transmit supplemental information to computing device over network . Remote server may include one or more desktop computers mainframes minicomputers or other computing devices capable of executing computer instructions and storing data. Remote database may include one or more memories repositories hard disks or any other data storage device. In some examples remote database may be included within remote server .

Remote server may connect to network . Network may be embodied as one or more of the Internet a wireless network a wired network a cellular network or a fiber optic network. In other words network may be any data communication protocol that facilitates data between two or more devices.

In some examples remote database may include Relational Database Management System RDBMS software. In one example remote database may be a relational database and accessed using a Structured Query Language SQL interface that is well known in the art. Remote database may alternatively be stored on a separate networked computing device and accessed by remote server through a network interface or system bus. Remote database may in other examples be an Object Database Management System ODBMS Online Analytical Processing OLAP database or other suitable data management system.

Therefore as described herein at least one position device may be associated with visual media such that computing device may utilize position information from position device to retrieve supplemental information associated with visual media . The combination of position devices and visual media may be termed a Smart Poster because the poster is able to direct computing device to additional information not presented by the visual information on visual media . The additional or supplemental information may be stored by remote server and delivered to any computing device that requests the supplemental information.

In one example computing device may obtain position information from a position device using NFC wherein position information identifies a position of position device in relation to visual media associated with position device . Position information may indicate the relative location of position device to visual media and or other position devices when the position device is within an array of position devices. Computing device may then transmit position information to remote server over network . In response to the transmitted position information remote server may transmit supplemental information back to computing device . Thus computing device or a processor of computing device may receive supplemental information that is provided by remote server e.g. a networked device based on position information . The supplemental information may include additional information related to a portion of visual media such as text images or even another URL that directs computing device to further supplemental information.

In another example computing device may include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a memory or removable media encoded with instructions that cause one or more processors of computing device to obtain position information from a position device using near field communication wherein position information identifies a position of position device in relation to visual media associated with position device . The computer readable storage medium may also include instructions that cause one or processors of computing device to receive supplemental information provided by a networked device e.g. remote server based on position information . In some examples computing device may include a near field communication module not shown that is configured to obtain position information from a position device using NFC. A processor of computing device may also be configured to receive the supplemental information from remote server .

Each one of position devices may be one of an array of position devices associated with visual media . The array of position devices may include two or more position devices arranged in a configuration selected for use of the array. In one example the array may include a plurality of position devices arranged in a two dimensional grid pattern as shown in . However the array may include position devices in circular patterns bunched patterns linear patterns random patterns or patterns selected to match a shape of a wall or visual media . Each of position devices may be associated to other position devices within the array. Although one position device may not specifically reference another position device remote database for example may include information associating each of position devices to the same visual media and or with respective distances and directions between each position device. Although system may generally include an array of multiple position devices system may utilize only one position device and detected motion of computer device in other examples.

Visual media may include a printed media or an electronic display. For example a printed media of visual media may include a single printed poster or multiple printed items. The printed media may include ink on a paper canvas vinyl or any other backing material. In this manner the printed media may include a static image. In another example an electronic display of visual media may provide a dynamic image. The electronic display may include a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display a projection display or any other electronic device configured to produce a dynamic image.

Visual media may also be mounted on a mounting surface not shown that includes position devices . The mounting surface may be a material to which each of position devices may be attached e.g. wood plastic paper or stone. In this manner the mounting surface may be a structure that can be hung on or otherwise attached to a wall. Alternatively the mounting surface may be a wall itself. The mounting surface may include a recess for each of position devices such that position devices may be flush with the surface of the mounting surface. In other examples position devices may be attached to a generally planar mounting surface.

In general visual media and the mounting surface containing position devices may be disposed in a single plane. In other words visual media may be a generally flat structure and position devices may generally be disposed in a single plane. However visual media and the mounting surface of position devices may be non planar in other examples. For example visual media and position devices may be configured into a cylindrical shape. In another example visual media and position devices may be configured into two or more planar sections joined by pointed or curved surfaces. Each of position devices may be curved or planar in any of these examples. Visual media may thus be disposed on a non planar surface.

To identify specific portions or hot spots within visual media each of position devices may provide different position information regarding the relative location of each specific position device to another position device. In one example position information from each of position devices may include unique coordinates that identify the position of the respective position device within the mounting surface and other position devices associated with visual media . The coordinates may identify the position of each respective position device along an X and Y axis. Remote server may then have each of position devices mapped to respective locations of visual media . Alternatively the coordinates may specify a measured location in both X and Y axes among the array of position devices . Instead of coordinates position information may merely identify the specific position device that is then mapped to locations of the mounting surface and visual media .

Computing device may obtain position information when computing device is placed proximate to one of the position devices and the desired portion of visual media . A user may hold computing device in close proximity to a desired portion or area of visual media . The proximity between computing device and each position device may be a function of the signal producible by each position device and any interference from visual media . For position devices configured to be interrogated using NFC computing device may need to be placed within 10 centimeters of a position device . In other examples computing device may need to be placed within 4 centimeters of a position device to obtain position information . Although not necessary computing device may also touch bump or otherwise contact visual media to obtain position information .

Position devices may be capable of transmitting position information over greater distances e.g. greater than 10 centimeters. However larger distances may allow computing device to interrogate multiple position devices at the same time. Obtaining position information from multiple position devices at the same time may complicate or even prevent the identification of the specific portion of visual media in close proximity to computing device . It may be possible in other examples to identify a specific location of visual media based on signal strength of each position information received by computing device e.g. the strongest signal may be from the closest position device to computing device . Alternatively computing device may determine the center point between all position devices identified by the position information obtained from multiple position devices when computing device remains stationary at one location with respect to visual media .

Computing device may continue to obtain position information from different position devices when computing device is moved to a different location with respect to visual media . Therefore computing device may obtain position information from additional position devices wherein position information identifies the positions of the respective position devices in relation to visual media . In other words each of the position devices may be associated with visual media and computing device may obtain position information from each position device that comes within close proximity to computing device . Computing device may transmit all of the position information that has been obtained either in real time as position information is obtained or in batches where each transmission includes position information from multiple position devices to remote server . Computing device may then retrieve supplemental information associated with a second portion or multiple portions of visual media based on position information from the additional position devices .

In this manner computing device may retrieve supplemental information associated with two or more portions of visual media . Whenever computing device obtains position information from a position device computing device may retrieve the corresponding supplemental information that has been mapped to or otherwise associated with that position device and portion of visual media . In some examples computing device may thus retrieve supplemental information for every position device that computing device has obtained position information .

In other examples computing device may be selective about when to obtain position information and or transmit position information to retrieve supplemental information. Because the user may not want to retrieve all of the supplemental information for portions of visual media computing device may employ one or more techniques to distinguish between portions of visual media of interest to the user and portions of visual media merely located between two portions of interest. In one example computing device may monitor the duration in which computing device is in communication with each position device . Computing device may compare the duration to a threshold and only transmit position information to remote server when the duration exceeds the threshold. Since the user may pause at the desired portion of visual media the threshold may be set so that supplemental information is only retrieved when the user pauses over the position device for a sufficient duration. In other words computing device may interpret small durations of time in which a position device is detected as a position device associated with a portion of visual media not of interest to the user.

In another example computing device may monitor the motion of computing device to determine which obtained position information should be used to retrieve supplemental information. Computing device may interpret instances when computing device is relatively motionless or when computing device changes direction of movement to be instances when the user was interested in a portion of visual media . Therefore computing device may transmit position information obtained at those detected instances to remote server for retrieving supplemental information.

In other examples computing device may transmit position information in response to receiving a transmit input from the user. The transmit input may command computing device to transmit position information . The user may provide the transmit input when the user has positioned computing device in close proximity to the portion of visual media of interest to the user. In this manner computing device may not transmit unnecessary position information and subsequently receive supplemental information of no interest to the user. In one example the transmit input may be received from a physical button of computing device or a soft button e.g. a button presented on a touch screen display of user interface . Alternative to receiving the input from a button the transmit input may be in the form of a tap or pattern of taps detected by an accelerometer that indicates the user desires supplemental information associated with the current position of computing device with respect to visual media . In response to receiving the transmit input computing device may transmit the most recently obtained position information e.g. position information from the closest position device .

In alternative examples the transmit input may be in the form of position information received from one or more of position devices . For example computing device may transmit the first position information from the first position device of visual media interrogated by computing device to remote server . Position information may identify visual media . In return computing device may receive a filter or other such information that indicates which position devices are associated with available supplemental information e.g. hot spots of visual media . This filter or information may be in the form of a list of bounding rectangles e.g. x y x y or a list of each position device location e.g. each coordinate position associated with supplemental information. As computing device receives position information computing device may only transmit position information received from position devices that correspond to the identified bounding rectangles or locations. In this manner computing device may limit transmission of position information to those instances where supplemental information is actually available from remote server .

Computing device may also utilize detected or sensed movement or motion of the computing device to resolve a specific potion of visual media for which to retrieve supplemental information. In other words position devices may not be provided close enough together or in a small enough size to provide the resolution needed to differentiate between specific portions of visual media . For example a user may desire to retrieve supplemental information from a portion of visual media that resides between two adjacent position devices . Computing device may need additional information such as information regarding the movement of computing device from the previously detected position device to resolve a more precise position of computing device with respect to visual media .

Computing device may thus detect movement of computing device from the previous position device and transmit position information received from the previous position device and the detected movement or information related to or indicative of the detected movement to remote server . Remote server may thus determine the position of computing device with respect to visual media by mapping the location of position device from position information and adding the detected movement to that mapped location. The detected movement may movement detected from an accelerometer gyroscope compass or any other movement sensors. The accelerometer may include one or more three axis accelerometers. In one example computing device may measure accelerations of computing device after obtaining position information and calculate the distance and direction computing device was moved from the previously detected position device based on the measured accelerations. The distance computing device has been moved may be calculated by double integration of the accelerometer measurements. In addition the direction may be determined integrating the acceleration measurements from the previous position device and determining a speed vector in two or three dimensions.

In another example computing device may detect movement of computing device by capturing a plurality of images with a sensor of the computing device. The sensor may be an image sensor disposed on a surface of computing device that faces visual media e.g. a rear facing camera . From the captured images computing device may analyze at least two of the captured images and calculate a distance and a direction that computing device was moved from the previously detected position device based on a rate and direction content of visual media e.g. a common feature of visual media presented in the images has moved between the captured images. Each of the captured images may include at least a part of visual media .

Computing device may in one example analyze the captured images for at least one common feature of visual media identify at least one common feature between the images e.g. common groups or patterns of pixels count the number of pixel changes between each image and estimate the movement of computing device based on the number of counted pixels. In this manner computing device may calculate the distance and direction computing device has moved from the distance and direction the at least one common feature has moved between the images. Computing device may also employ other algorithms selected to convert feature movement between images to distance moved. These algorithms may incorporate additional data such as focal length to calibrate the distance per pixel calculation. In other words larger focal lengths in the images may indicate a larger coverage length of visual media for each pixel.

The movement detected by computing device may allow remote server to provide a more accurate position of computing device with respect to visual media and position devices . However this estimation of movement may become less accurate over large distances. In this manner computing device or remote server may use subsequently obtained position information to correct the detected movement of computing device . After computing device has obtained position information from a position device may obtain position information from a subsequent position device using near field communication or another short range communication protocol where the subsequent position device identifies a respective position of the position device in relation to visual media . Computing device may then correct the detected movement based on a distance between the positions of the subsequent position device . In other examples remote server may correct the detected movement based on the subsequent position information received from computing device .

Although computing device or remote server may be configured to estimate the position of computing device in relation to visual media based on obtaining position information from a single position device and detecting computing device movement such estimation may lose precision and or accuracy as computing device is moved over larger distances by the user. Therefore even if detected movement can be used to determine the position of computing device computing device may be configured to continue obtaining position information from subsequent position devices . In some examples remote server may request movement information from computing device . If remote server recognizes that visual media is associated with only a few position devices or position devices are separated by larger distances remote server may request the detected movement to more accurately determine the position of computing device . This request may command computing device to begin detecting movement if such computing device has not already activated the detection of movement. In other examples computing device may automatically begin detecting movement from one or more sensors upon initially obtaining position information .

As described herein computing device may obtain the supplemental information from remote server in response to obtaining position information . The supplemental information may allow the user to view additional details or other information related to a portion of visual media . In some examples the supplemental information transmitted to computing device from remote server may include data that is presentable to the user of computing device via user interface in the form of text pictures video applications purchasing information etc. In other words computing device may be configured to display the supplemental information using user interface .

In other examples supplemental information received by computing device may include instructions or may be a pointing device that allows computing device to obtain the additional information desired by the user. For example the supplemental information may include a uniform resource locator URL that directs a browser of computing device to web based content associated with the portion of visual media at least partially identified by position information . In other words remote server may transmit the URL or other pointing device associated with position information . Computing device may then use the URL to obtain additional information e.g. text pictures audio files video purchasing information over network from a source different than remote server . The URL may also command computing device to open the web browser if one is not already available to the operating system of computing device . Supplemental information in the form of a URL may require computing device to perform additional operations but then remote server may not need to store the additional details and maintain updated data. Instead remote sever may merely direct computing device to an information source that maintains the updated information associated with visual media . In addition the URL may allow computing device to access interactive web based content such as secure purchasing websites dynamic schedules or any other information available over network . Computing device may display the URL the pointing device and or the additional information obtained via the URL.

In some examples position information may include information that computing device can use to directly obtain supplemental information associated with visual media . For example position information may include a URL selected to direct a browser of computing device to remote server e.g. a networked device . Remote server may also be controlled by a service e.g. a networked service associated with visual media that has mapped visual media to position devices . Mapping visual media to position devices may include determining which position device is closest to areas of visual media for which supplemental information will be available to a user of computing device . Supplemental information retrieved by computing device using the URL of position information may be a subset of supplemental information related to different portions of visual media and stored by the service that includes remote server and remote database . In other words remote database may store a complete set of supplemental information e.g. text images video and or URLs that is associated with the entire visual media . However only a subset or portion of the supplemental information may be transmitted to computing device in response to computing device obtaining position information from a specific position device .

System and similar systems utilizing position devices may be utilized to adjust a control parameter that defines operation of a target device e.g. a sound system a video system a lighting system a heating system etc. . In other words a user may adjust modify or change a control parameter of a target device by obtaining position information from one or more position devices . Computing device may obtain information from one or more position devices using near field communication. The information may identify a position of the respective position device within an array of position devices associated with a visual representation of a control parameter that at least partially defines operation of a target device. Computing device may then transmit the obtained information e.g. position information from computing device to remote server e.g. a networked device configured to adjust the control parameter based on the obtained information.

In some examples computing device may begin to adjust the control parameter after obtaining position information from only one position device . In other examples computing device may adjust the control parameter based on obtaining position information from two or more position devices. For example computing device may obtain a second set of information from a second position device of the plurality of position devices . Just like the position information obtained from a previous position device the second set of information e.g. position information from a subsequent position device identifies a position of the second position device in relation to the visual representation of the control parameter e.g. visual media . Computing device may then transmit the second set of information to remote server that is configured to update the adjustment of the control parameter based on the second set of information. In this manner computing device may transmit newly obtained position information from subsequent position devices to remote server to adjust the control parameter.

The control parameter may define operation of a target device. As indicated above the target device may be any device capable of electronic control. For example the target device may be used to provide entertainment climate control lighting or any other service to the user. The target device may be a component of an audio system a video component of a video system a lighting control device a thermostat that controls a heating and cooling system a security system or even another computing system. In this manner the control parameter may be a volume control a channel control an input control a light intensity control a temperature control a video camera directional control or any other such parameter that at least partially defines the operation of the target device. The control parameter may thus be adjusted to a variety of values as desired by the user based on the position information obtained from position devices .

Computing device may adjust the control parameter by obtaining position information from one or more position devices . In this manner each of position devices may have a distinct position that is representative of a magnitude of the control parameter with respect to a visual representation of the control parameter e.g. a portion of visual media . For example as the user moves computing device to the right across visual media each subsequent position device may be used to increase the volume of a volume control parameter. As described herein position information may include coordinates of the respective position device that remote server uses to identify the position of each position device and the respective representative magnitude of the control parameter.

In addition the control parameter may be at least partially adjusted based on the movement of computing device . Computing device may utilize one or more sensors to detect movement of computing device from a position device . Computing device may then transmit the detected movement to remote server such that remote server may estimate the actual position of computing device with respect to position device and visual media . In other words the detected movement of computing device with respect to the most recently identified position device may allow remote server to resolve the position of computing device with greater precision than may otherwise be possible with only position devices . Since there may be a gap between position devices the exact position of computing device between adjacent position devices may be difficult to determine. The detected movement may aid remote server to better determine the position of computing device and transmit supplemental information to computing device based on this more accurate position.

In one example computing device may detect movement using accelerations of computing device . Computing device may include one or more accelerometers e.g. a single axis two axis or three axis accelerometer that measure accelerations of computing device after computing device obtains position information . Computing device may measure the accelerations continually or only in response to obtaining position information . Computing device may then calculate a distance and a direction that computing device was moved from the last identified position device based on the measured accelerations. The distance computing device has moved may be calculated for example by double integrating the acceleration measurements over time.

In another example computing device may detect movement of computing device using optically obtained information. Computing device may capture a plurality of images with an optical sensor e.g. a camera of computing device as computing device is moved with respect to visual media . The optical sensor may be disposed on or within the housing of computing device . For example the optical sensor may be disposed opposite user interface such that the optical sensor is facing visual media . As computing device is moving computing device may begin capturing images in response to obtaining position information from any position device . In some examples computing device may only capture images if computing device detects movement. In other examples computing device may capture images in response to obtaining position information . Computing device may recognize that movement is to be detected after obtaining position information . Alternatively position information may include a command that instructs computing device to begin capturing images to detect movement. Computing device may control the capturing of images using other techniques in other examples.

Computing device may analyze changes between the captured images to determine the distance computing device moves in between obtaining position information from position devices . In one example computing device may calculate the distance and the direction computing device was moved from a position device based on the rate and the direction that visual content of the visual representation e.g. visual media moved between the captured images. For example computing device may analyze consecutive images for similar structures. In some examples the one or more similar structures may include a subtle pattern or lines dots or other shape printed on visual media . The subtle pattern may be relatively small or with minimal contrast to adjacent colors such that the subtle pattern is invisible or almost invisible to the human eye. The subtle pattern may have known dimensions or other features that facilitates determining the distance computing device has moved e.g. each subtle pattern is a known distance apart .

Computing device may then determine the number of pixels between the similar structures of the consecutive images. Using a calibration equation or other algorithms to transform the number of pixels to a distance moved e.g. multiplying the number of pixels by the calibrated width of each pixel computing device may calculate an estimation of the distance computing device has moved with respect to the visual content captured by the images. When this calculation is done between each captured image computing device may add the calculated distances to get the total distance moved.

In addition computing device may calculate a direction that computing device has moved based on the how many pixels the structures in the images moved in two dimensions. This vector may indicate an angle with respect visual media . Over multiple images computing device may add the vectors of each change in the images to determine a resulting movement of computing device . This resulting movement both direction and distance may be transmitted by computing device to remote sever via network such that remote server can determine a more exact position of computing device with respect to visual media .

Using any technique to determine the movement of computing device subsequent detection of position devices may be used to correct the estimation of computing device movement. For example computing device may obtain position information a subsequent position device after obtaining position information from a previous position device. Based on the known distance between the identified positions of the two position devices from the obtained position information the detected movement of computing device may be corrected. Although remote server may correct the detected movement computing device may correct the detected movement in other examples.

As described herein the visual representation of the control parameter may be similar to or a part of visual media . The visual representation of the control parameter may be mounted on a mounting surface comprising one or more position devices . The visual representation may be a visual indication of the control parameter to indicate to the user of computing device that moving computing device with respect to the visual representation can adjust the control parameter. The visual representation may take any form that is identifiable with the control parameter. For example the visual representation may be a slider or a dial. In other examples the visual representation of the control parameter may include a ramp descriptive words e.g. low and high or even numerical indications of the control parameter magnitude. The visual representation may also be provided as printed media or an electronic display e.g. a liquid crystal display light emitting diodes etc. .

In association with the visual representation the one or more position devices may be a subset of an array of position devices. The visual representation may be a part of a larger visual media or be configured separately with its own array of position devices. Generally position information may include coordinates and or a URL that indicates the position of each respective position device . In some examples position information may also have a code or other identifier that identifies the control parameter and the target device of which can be adjusted based on the position of computing device .

Since the target device may be controlled by remote server based on the position of computing device with respect to position devices computing device may not be able to interpret position information to identify what adjustment will be made to the control parameter. Therefore computing device may receive the adjusted value of the control parameter from remote server . In other words remote server may transmit the adjusted value to computing device via network after the adjustment has been made or upon determining the adjusted value of the control parameter. Computing device may also present the adjusted value of the control parameter using user interface . Therefore the user of computing device may receive feedback as to how the control parameter has changed based on the movement of computing device with respect to visual media .

Various aspects of the disclosure may be operable only when the user has explicitly enabled such functionality. In addition various aspects of the disclosure may be disabled by the user. Thus a user may elect to prevent computing device from transmitting position information to remote server or receive supplemental information directly from remote server . More generally privacy controls may be applied to all aspects of the disclosure based on a user s privacy preferences to honor the user s privacy preferences for opting in or opting out of the functionality described in this disclosure.

As shown in the specific example of computing device includes one or more processors memory a network interface one or more storage devices user interface battery GPS device short range communication device accelerometer and camera . Computing device also includes an operating system which may include modules and or applications that are executable by processors and computing device . Computing device in one example further includes one or more applications . One or more applications are also executable by computing device . Each of components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

Processors in one example are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . These instructions may define or otherwise control the operation of operating system and applications .

Memory in one example is configured to store information within computing device during operation. Memory in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples memory is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of memory is not long term storage. Memory in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that memory does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples memory is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Memory in one example is used by software or applications running on computing device e.g. one or more of applications to temporarily store information during program execution.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

Computing device in some examples also includes a network interface . Computing device in one example utilizes network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as network in . Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices as well as USB. In some examples computing device utilizes network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device not shown such as a server mobile phone or other networked computing device.

Computing device in one example also includes one or more user interfaces . User interface may be an example of user interface described in . User interface may be configured to receive input from a user e.g. tactile audio or video feedback . User interface may include a touch sensitive and or a presence sensitive screen mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples user interface includes a touch sensitive screen mouse keyboard microphone or camera.

User interface may also include combined or separate from input devices output devices. In this manner user interface may be configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli. In one example user interface may include a touch sensitive screen sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. In addition user interface may include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

Computing device in some examples include one or more batteries which may be rechargeable and provide power to computing device . Battery in some examples is made from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material. In other examples battery may be a power source capable of providing stored power or voltage from another power source.

Computing device may also include one of more GPS devices . GPS device may include one or more satellite radios capable of determining the geographical location of computing device . Computing device may utilize GPS device to confirm the validity of visual media for example. Alternatively computing device may transmit the GPS coordinates to remote server to identify the location and the specific visual media .

In addition computing device may include one or more short range communication device . For example short range communication device may be an NFC device. As described herein short range communication device may be active hardware that is configured to obtain location information from position devices . In general short range communication device may be configured to communicate wirelessly with other devices in physical proximity to short range communication device e.g. approximately 0 100 meters . In other examples short range communication device may be replaced with an alternative short range communication device configured to obtain position information from respective position devices . These alternative short range communication devices may operate according to Bluetooth Ultra Wideband radio or other similar protocols.

Computing device may also include various sensors. Computing device may include one or more accelerometers that senses accelerations of computing device . Accelerometer may be a three axis accelerometer that senses accelerations in multiple dimensions. Alternatively accelerometer may include two or more single axis accelerometers. Computing device may utilize accelerometer to detect movement of computing device and resolve the position of computing device to a higher resolution than would be possible with position devices alone. In some examples computing device may also include one or more gyroscopes to sense angular acceleration or compasses to sense the direction computing device .

Camera may be an optical sensor that computing device controls. Computing device may capture images and or video using camera . In some examples camera may be used to detect movement of computing device with respect to visual media . Camera may be located on any surface of computing device in some examples. In other examples computing device may include two or more cameras.

Computing device may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of computing device . For example operating system in one example facilitates the interaction of application with processors memory network interface storage device user interface battery GPS device short range communication device accelerometer and camera .

Application may be an application configured to manage obtaining position information transmitting position information to remote server receiving supplemental information from remote server and presenting the supplemental information on computing device . Application may control one or more of these features. Application may thus control any aspect of interaction visual media . Application may be automatically launched upon detecting one of position devices if application is not already being executed by processors . Application may also be used to measure and or calculate the detected movement of computing device or any other functionality described herein. Although one application may manage supplemental information and the adjustment of a control parameter separate applications may perform these functions in other examples. Although application may be software independent from operating system application may be a sub routine of operating system in other examples.

Computing device may utilize additional applications to manage any functionality described herein with respect to system or other aspects of computing device . Any applications e.g. application implemented within or executed by computing device may be implemented or contained within operable by executed by and or be operatively communicatively coupled to components of computing device e.g. processors memory network interface and or storage devices .

Position devices may be attached to mounting surface . Mounting surface may be constructed of any material capable of retaining position devices . If position devices are adhesive tags mounting surface may be a sheet of paper cardboard or other material. In some examples mounting surface may be constructed of a polymer wood composite or other rigid material. Mounting surface may be constructed such that mounting surface may be attachable to an exterior wall an interior wall a window or any other surface. Mounting surface may be constructed with a substantially planar surface or cavities each configured to accept one of position devices . In some examples cavities of mounting surface may be located on a side of mounting surface opposite the side to which visual media is attached. Alternatively the cavities for each position device may have a depth such that when each position device is disposed within its respective cavity a substantially planar surface is created to which visual media can be attached.

Position devices may be arranged in an array of various sizes and shapes as needed for visual media . Typically position devices may be arranged in a rectangular or square array to provide proper coverage for visual media . For example position devices are arranged in a 4 by 4 grid in mounting surface . In other examples fewer or greater numbers of position devices may be provided e.g. as few as one position device hundreds of position devices or more than a thousand position devices . Position devices may be mounted edge to edge to limit any gaps between adjacent position devices. Alternatively a gap may be provided between position devices to limit the number of position devices needed to provide adequate coverage of mounting surface . Computing device may determine the movement between each position device when fewer position devices are provided for visual media .

Visual media may be constructed to be placed on top of or cover position devices and mounting surface . Mounting surface may include attachment structures a transparent cover or some other mechanism that attaches visual media to mounting surface . Alternatively visual media may be attached to mounting surface with an adhesive. Generally mounting surface is constructed such that different visual media can be used with mounting surface and position devices over time. In other words one visual media may be replaced with other visual media as desired. This process may reduce the cost of providing position devices because only visual media must be replaced. Although visual media may cover the entire area of mounting surface visual media may be configured to only cover a portion of mounting surface and a subset of position devices .

Either a printed media or electronic display may be mapped to position devices . Once visual media is generated any portions of visual media with supplemental information are mapped to the position of each respective position device . Remote server may perform the mapping function and store the map within remote database . Therefore anytime remote server receives position information from one of position devices remote server can retrieve the specific portion of visual media and the associated supplemental information from remote database . An electronic display may allow two or more visual media to be displayed at various times. In this example remote server may obtain information as to which visual media was displayed when position information was obtained by computing device . Remote server may retrieve this information from a pre determined schedule for displaying the multiple visual media or directly from a controller that determines which visual media is displayed by the electronic display.

The initial registration or mapping of position devices to portions of visual media may be performed by an administrator or user of the service that utilizes remote server . For example the user may upload an electronic version of visual media to remote server . Remote server may create regions over each portion of visual media e.g. coordinates or coordinate bounded regions that would correspond to respective position devices . Visual media may thus be mapped to position devices . Remote server may present these regions as a grid or other feature over visual media to the user on a computing device. The user may then interact with the computing device and remote server to select each region e.g. a hot spot within visual media that will be associated with supplemental information. The administrator or user may then associate supplemental information with the selected regions and corresponding portions of visual media mapped to one or more position devices . In this manner the mapping may be automated and the associations may require user input. Remote server may then store the mapping and associations in remote database e.g. a cloud storage device for later retrieval in response to receiving the appropriate position information.

In other examples a user or administrator may map position devices to portions of visual media in a less computationally intensive process. For example remote server may present the layout or grid of position devices and their dimensions. The user may then manually determine which position device should be mapped to which portions of visual media . The user may then upload or assign the desired supplemental information for each of the position devices . Remote server may thus map one or more position devices to various portions of visual media via input from the user. Other techniques for mapping portions of visual media to position devices and associating position devices to supplemental information may also be used.

Position devices may be identified by coordinates stored by each respective position device as described herein. For purposes of illustration in each of position devices are identified by a column and row identifier. Each column is identified by a unique number e.g. 1 2 3 and 4 and each row is identified by a unique letter e.g. A B C and D . For example the upper left position device may be identified as A and the lower right position device may be identified as D. In other examples the coordinates may use only numbers e.g. the first number of the coordinate indicates the row and the second number indicates the column only letters or some other indication of where each position device is located on mounting device .

Visual media may include multiple portions to which supplemental information may be associated. Therefore these portions or even the entire visual media may be mapped to respective position devices . Visual media may include portions A B C D and E collectively portions . For example portion A provides the letters ABCDE. Portion A would be mapped to position device A because position device A is the closest position device to portion A. Likewise portion B may be mapped to position device B portion D may be mapped to position device C and portion E may be mapped to position device DI. In each of portions A B D and E only one position device may be mapped to each portion.

However two or more position devices may be mapped to a single portion of visual media . For example portion C may be a relatively large graphic shown as an oval in portion C provided by visual media . Since portion C covers at least a portion of four different position devices portion C may be mapped to each of these different position devices. Therefore portion C may be mapped to position devices C C D and D. If computing device obtains position information from any of position devices C C D or D remote server may transmit supplemental information associated to portion C back to computing device . In this manner supplemental information may be mapped to a portion of visual media that covers or is otherwise associated with one or more position device .

As described herein supplemental information may be retrieved by computing device as long as position information is obtained from at least one position device mapped to the intended portion of visual media . For example if computing device obtains position information identifying position device C and transmits that position information to remote server remote server may transmit supplemental information associated with portion D i.e. 12345 to computing device . In other examples computing device may need to obtain position information from multiple position devices before supplemental information can be retrieved. In other words remote server may require position information from two or more position devices before remote server may transmit the supplemental information to computing device . The multiple position devices may be used to identify overlapping portions of visual media or otherwise prevent supplemental information from being obtained when computing device is only located at a periphery of the intended portion. For example computing device may need to obtain position information from position devices C and C or any other combination of mapped position devices to portion C before supplemental information associated with portion C will be retrieved from remote sever .

By using a coordinate system like the one described in each of position devices may be readily identifiable by location within mounting surface and with respect to visual media . In other examples a coordinate system may not be necessary to map each of position devices to a portion of visual media . For example each of position devices may be referred to with a unique identifier that can be mapped to a segment of mounting surface . In any example each unique position device may be capable of being mapped to a portion of mounting surface and or visual media .

Portions provided in are merely examples of media that may be placed at various locations of visual media . Instead of ABCDE and 12345 for example visual media may include various words sentences text pictures or other images selected for a specific purpose. For example visual media may be selected and designed as an advertisement an informational display a map or any other media that may benefit from an interactive capability provided by position devices .

Computing device may be moved over visual media from a location beyond a peripheral edge of visual media . Alternatively computing device may be moved from a distance far from the surface of visual media to a close distance to the surface of visual media . In either example computing device may be moved to a location in close proximity to the desired portion of visual media in any desired movement by the user.

Generally computing device may be moved across or along the surface of visual media such as generally within a single plane to obtain supplemental information associated with portions of visual media . In other words computing device may obtain position information from position devices only when computing device within a communication range of the position devices . The communication range for position devices and computing device e.g. the distance needed for communication may be dependent at least in part on the size and or diameter of the antenna coil within computing device . In this manner computing device may obtain position information at longer distances from a position device with larger antenna dimensions.

Generally computing device may obtain position information when computing device is within a range of between approximately 1.0 centimeters and 100 centimeters from visual media . In one example computing device may need to be within approximately centimeters of position devices . In other examples computing device may need to be within a distance between approximately 1.0 centimeters and 5.0 centimeters. In one example computing device may need to be within a distance of approximately 2.5 centimeters. However computing device may need to be placed relatively close to visual media such that computing device does not obtain position information from multiple position devices at the same time. The user may thus keep computing device relatively close to visual media to obtain position information from position devices and related supplemental information associated with the various portions of visual media .

Computing device may thus be capable of determining or estimating the distance A between location and location . Distance A is less than distance B between position device A and position device B. Distance A may be determined at any point in time and may be updated as computing device is moved with respect to location . By determining distance A from the previous position device e.g. position device A computing device and or remote device may be able to identify the location of computing device with respect to position devices and visual media with higher resolution or more accuracy than would otherwise be possible by only obtaining position information from position devices .

Although distance A between locations and of may be a horizontal distance between position devices A and B distance A may be in any direction from position device A. For example computing device may be moved in a diagonal direction or vertical direction with respect to position device A and distance A may still be measured in accordance to the direction in which computing device has moved. Therefore the movement detected by computing device may have a direction component and a magnitude component. In other words computing device may be able to determine the approximate location of computing device with respect to position devices when computing device is moved in any direction.

Computing device may begin sensing and determining movement in response to obtaining position information from a position device e.g. position device A . Alternatively computing device may continuously sense and determine movement before and after obtaining position information. However computing device may only utilize the movement detected after obtaining the position information to update the location of computing device due to movement subsequent to being proximate to the previous position device. In other examples computing device may change the detection rate e.g. the rate of the sensor that senses the movement in response to obtaining position information or after a predetermined period of time after obtaining the position information. For example computing device may increase the detection rate from a low detection to a high detection rate to provide a more accurate estimation of the position of computing device .

In either case the detected movement of computing device may be used when new position information is not available during movement of computing device . For example position devices may be separated by some distance on the mounting surface. When computing device is positioned within this gap between position devices the detected movement may provide a useful estimation of the location of computing device . As computing device is moved over a greater distance the estimation of computing device position may become less accurate based on the detected movement. For this example reason the exact location of computing device may be updated or corrected upon obtaining new position information from a subsequent position device. In other words position information obtained from a position device may override the location estimated by the detected movement.

Estimating computing device locations with detected movement may be employed to reduce the number of position devices needed for a mounting surface and visual media. Although position devices may be arranged in a dense array or pattern less dense arrays of position devices may reduce the cost of mounting surfaces or be more practical for visual media covering large areas. For example the distance between position devices may be between approximately 0.5 centimeters and 100 centimeter. More specifically the distance between position devices may be between approximately 1.0 centimeters and 10 centimeters. In one alternative a mounting surface may only include one position device. The position device may be positioned in a corner or the middle of the mounting surface for example. Once computing device obtains position information from the single position device the location of computing device with respect to the single position device and the associated visual media may be fully estimated based on the detected movement of computing device . In this manner multiple portions of a visual medium may be mapped to a single position device or many position devices.

As described herein computing device may use a sensor within computing device to detect movement of computing device from a previous position device . Computing device may then transmit the detected movement to a networked device e.g. remote server . In one example computing device may include one or more accelerometers e.g. accelerometer of that detect movement of computing device by measuring accelerations of computing device after obtaining the position information from a position device. After the accelerations are measured computing device may calculate a distance and a direction that computing device was moved from the previous position device based on the measured accelerations. The accelerations may be measured with a two or three axis accelerometer or multiple accelerometers arranged orthogonally to each other. This acceleration measurement method may be referred to as an inertial measurement to interpolate the distance from a position device.

The measured accelerations e.g. sensor values obtained from the accelerometer sensor may be used to measure the moved distance by double integrating the measured accelerations for example. The distance may thus be calculated periodically and added to previously measured distances or calculated at a single time determined based on stopped movement or some other detected indication that the distance should be calculated. For example the new position of computing device may be determined in two dimensions in a plane parallel with the visual media. The following equation may be used to determine the new position of computing device Position New New Position Old Integral Integral Acc Old Integral Integral Acc . 1 Equation 1 illustrates the example method for determining the new position of computing device by double integration of each X and Y directional component of the sensor output. NewX is the new position in the X direction and NewY is the new position in the Y direction. Similarly OldX is the previous position in the X direction and OldY is the previous position in the Y direction. AccX is the acceleration value in the X direction over time t and AccY is the acceleration value in the Y direction over time t. When each acceleration value is integrated twice and added to the previous or old position the detected movement has been used to calculate or estimate the location of computing device . The difference between the old position and the new position may be the distance A between locations and of .

In some examples computing device may directly calculate the new position of computing device and transmit the new position to remote server to obtain new supplemental information. In other examples computing device may calculate the distance and direction computing device has moved and may transmit the distance and direction information to remote server . Remote server may then apply the transmitted information to the location of the previous position device and calculate the new position of computing device . In this manner computing device and remote server may each contribute to calculating the movement of computing device . Alternatively remote sever may perform most of the calculations to determine new position of computing device . Computing device may simply transmit sensed values from the one or more accelerometers and calibration information if necessary to remote server . Remote server may then calculate the distance and direction computing device has moved and the new position of computing device . In any case remote server may use the newly calculated position of computing device to transmit supplemental information to computing device when the position of computing device correlates to a portion of visual media associated with the supplemental information.

In other examples the movement of computing device may be determined using alternative methods and or different types of sensors. For example computing device may determine movement with an optical sensor e.g. a sensor of camera of . Computing device may capture a plurality of images with a sensor of computing device and calculate a distance and a direction computing device was moved from the position device based on a distance and a direction that visual content of the visual representation moved between the captured plurality of images. In other words computing device may still calculate movement similar to using accelerations. However the data being used may be differences between subsequent images taken during the movement of computing device .

When computing device is held in close proximity to visual media e.g. within a distance that computing device can obtain position information from position devices a camera facing visual media may capture two or more images of visual media as computing device is moved with respect to visual media . Computing device may analyze the visual content of visual media from each image to identify similar structures or content e.g. a letter or a portion of an image in each image. Because computing device was moving between each captured image the distance and direction between similar structures may correspond to the distance and direction that computing device moved during the time between each image was captured.

Computing device may count the number of pixels in an X direction and the number of pixels in the Y direction between the similar structures of each image. Computing device may then multiply the number of pixels by an image distance calibrated based on the width or height of each pixel and the approximated distance between the camera and visual media . Computing device and or remote server may then apply the updated X and Y distances to the previously known position of computing device . The X and Y distances may be directly added as components to position components of computing device or a vector may be calculated for the new X and Y distances to establish the distance and direction that computing device moved from the previous position.

Using any method described herein the detected movement of computing device may be used to estimate the location or position of computing device as computing device moves from location and position device A to location a distance A from position device A. The calculated distance A may be referred to as an estimation because of the indirect sensing techniques that may be employed to detect the movement of computing device . In this manner the actual distance B between position device A and position device B may not be identical to the calculated distance A during the movement between the position devices. Therefore remote server may use the obtained position information from position device B to correct the position of computing device any time new position information is obtained.

Status bar may include one or more icons that indicate the status of computing device and or applications running on computing device . For example status bar may present a time of day battery charge level network signal strength application updates received messages or even notification that position information has been received from a position device . Address bar may indicate to the user what the web address is for supplemental information shown in screen . In response to receiving the position information from computing device remote server may transmit supplemental information for the associated portion of visual media in the form of a web address. Computing device may thus use the web address of the supplemental information to retrieve additional supplemental information related to the portion of visual media of interest to the user of computing device .

In the example of screen provides supplemental information that may be associated to a portion of visual media that is an advertisement for a movie. The visual media may map the portion specific to a certain movie to one or more position devices. Supplemental information may include information such as the theater associated with the visual media the movie name e.g. New Movie and actors starring in the movie. In addition supplemental information may provide links to more information if desired by the user. For example supplemental information may provide links or include the information for showtimes a synopsis of the movie ratings for the movie or even a video trailer for the movie. In addition supplemental information may include a mechanism so that the user of computing device can purchase tickets to the movie. In this manner supplemental information may include any type of information or links to any type of information related to a portion of the visual media.

In other examples supplemental information may be selected for any other type of information provided by visual media . For example supplemental information may include price information coupons schedules videos pictures audio information interactive games comment forums or any other type of information. Supplemental information may be provided by a web browser an application specific to obtaining the position information or any other software and hardware combination of computing device . Therefore supplemental information may be a small piece of information a large amount of information within which the user may navigate and or a link to additional supplemental information. In any case remote server may transmit at least a portion of the supplemental information to computing device via network in response to the position information received from computing device .

Screen may also be formatted to facilitate use in a touch screen user interface . In other words all of the user inputs may be large enough for a user to touch with a single finger. Alternatively screen may be formatted to include smaller user inputs when a pointing device may be used to select input buttons.

Once processor obtains position information processor may transmit position information to a network device such as remote server via network . Processor may utilize network interface to transmit position information . In response processor may receive supplemental information from remote server via network and network interface . The transmitting of position information and the receiving of supplemental information may occur automatically without any input from the user of computing device . Alternatively the user may need to provide input that allows computing device to transmit the position information and or allows computing device to receive the supplemental information.

If the received supplemental information is in the form of a URL YES branch of block processor may transmit the URL to network using a web browser or other application . Processor may then receive data associated with the supplemental information e.g. more supplemental information via network . Processor then displays the received supplemental information to the user using user interface of computing device . If the received supplemental information is not in the form of a URL e.g. the supplemental information is ready for user viewing NO branch of block processor displays the received supplemental information to the user using user interface of computing device .

As long as processor does not obtain new position information NO branch of block processor may continue to display the supplemental information. If new position information is obtained by processor YES branch of block processor may transmit the new position information to remote server to retrieve new supplemental information. Although new supplemental information may be presented to the user via user interface the user may be able to navigate among all supplemental information once it is received from remote server .

Using short range communication device e.g. an NFC device processor may obtain position information from a position device when computing device is placed proximate to visual media . Once processor obtains position information processor may transmit position information to a network device such as remote server via network . If processor does not detect any movement of computing device via accelerometer NO branch of block processor may determine if any new position information has been obtained . If new position information has been obtained YES branch of block processor may transmit the new position information to remote server . If no new position information is obtained processor may continue to detect movement of computing device .

If processor detects movement of computing device based on a change in output from accelerometer YES branch of block processor may measure accelerations of computing device . Processor may command accelerometer to being sensing accelerations or processor may begin accessing accelerometer data to measure the accelerations. Using the acceleration values processor may calculate the distance computing device has moved by double integrating the measured accelerations . Processor may also calculate the direction computing device has moved by determining the vector based on direction components of the distance values . Alternatively processor may calculate the direction of movement by taking a single integration of the acceleration values and using the velocity vector.

Once the distance and direction of movement has been calculated processor may then transmit the distance and direction of computing device movement to remote server such that remote server can update the position of computing device . In some examples processor may calculate the distance and direction of the movement after each measurement of the device acceleration. In other examples processor may obtain multiple measurements over a predetermined period of time or until computing device is motionless for a period of time. Then processor may calculate the distance and the direction of computing device movement based on multiple measurements to limit the number of calculations and the number of transmissions to remote server .

If processor detects additional movement or detects that there is new position information to obtain YES branch of block processor may continue to detect additional movement of computing device or obtain additional position information . If processor does not detect additional movement or position information NO branch of block processor may then receive supplemental information via network and present the received supplemental information to the user using user interface of computing device . The supplemental information may thus be based on the position information the calculated distance of movement and the calculated direction of movement. As described herein the task of calculating the movement of computing device may be performed by processor remote server a different processor of the system or some combination therein.

As shown in mounting surface may include an array of two or more position devices . Mounting surface and position devices may be similar to mounting surface and position devices of . Visual representation may be any visual media that is then mounted onto mounting surface to cover position devices . The resulting virtual controller is provided in such that the user of computing device may only view visual representation . Virtual controller may be a separate device such as an NFC tag or other device that can be interrogated to provide data to computing device . Visual representation may then be adhered or otherwise mounted to the NFC tag. Alternatively the content of visual representation may be directly printed onto the NFC tag. The NFC tag or array of NFC tags may then be placed at any location the user desires to use virtual controller . For example virtual controller may be placed or adhered to walls windows doors tables furniture electronic devices or anywhere the user may desire to adjust the specified control parameter of the target device. A backside of virtual controller may include an adhesive hook and loop closure or other mechanism to retain virtual controller on the desired surface. As one example virtual controller that provides adjustments to a volume may be placed on a table to allow the user to adjust the volume of the target device e.g. a music system .

In other examples virtual controller may be provided as a part of a larger visual media and mounting surface e.g. visual media and mounting surface . In this manner virtual representation may be a portion of a larger visual media . In addition position devices may be a subset of a larger array of position devices e.g. position devices of . Therefore any array of position devices or subset of an array of position devices may be utilized to adjust a control parameter of a target device. For example visual media described herein may be an advertisement and or include instructions on how to use a music jukebox. The user may move computing device across visual media to adjust the value of a control parameter e.g. volume of the jukebox. In addition or alternatively position devices may be provided to toggle between songs playable by the jukebox or even move to a different time within the song e.g. forward reverse skip ahead pause or even select a specific time point within the song .

As described above visual representation is shown to represent a slider for increasing and decreasing the volume of a target device. Visual representation may be configured to represent the specific control parameter of which can be adjusted based on the position information from position devices . Adjusting the control parameter may include changing a value that defines the state of the control parameter. For example visual representation may provide a visual indication to control a channel an input mode one or more frequency bands of an equalizer light intensity position of an automated curtain a temperature range or any other such control parameter. In any example computing device may be used to adjust the control parameter identified by virtual controller by moving computing device to one of position devices or between the array of position devices located behind visual representation .

The user may thus select the desired volume level of the control parameter by moving computing device to the appropriate position along visual representation of virtual controller . Computing device may obtain information from one or more position devices using near field communication. The position information may identify a position of the respective position device within the array of position devices associated with visual representation of a control parameter that at least partially defines operation of a target device. Computing device may then transmit the obtained information e.g. position information from computing device to remote server e.g. a networked device configured to adjust the control parameter based on the obtained information. In other words computing device may not directly adjust the control parameter. Instead remote server may directly adjust the control parameter or command the target device to adjust the control parameter.

In some examples computing device may begin to adjust the control parameter after obtaining position information from only one position device . For example the user may place computing device at the desired location along visual representation to select a single value of the control parameter. In other examples computing device may adjust the control parameter based on obtaining position information from two or more position devices. For example computing device may obtain position information from position device B and then obtain additional position information from position device C when computing device is moved with respect to visual representation . The position information may identify a position of position devices B and C in relation to visual representation of the control parameter. Computing device may transmit all of the position information obtained in the order in which it was obtained from position devices to remote server . Remote server may then update the adjustment of the control parameter based on the most recently obtained position information. In this manner computing device may transmit newly obtained position information from subsequent position devices to remote server to adjust the control parameter.

The control parameter may define operation of a target device. As indicated above the target device may be any device capable of electronic control. For example the target device may be used to provide entertainment climate control lighting or any other service to the user. The target device may be a component of an audio system a video component of a video system a lighting control device a thermostat that controls a heating and cooling system a security system or even another computing system. In this manner the control parameter may be a volume control a channel control an input control a light intensity control a temperature control a video camera directional control or any other such parameter that at least partially defines the operation of the target device. The control parameter may thus be adjusted to a variety of values as desired by the user based on the position information obtained from position devices .

Computing device may adjust the control parameter by obtaining position information from one or more position devices . In this manner each of position devices may have a distinct position that is representative of a magnitude of the control parameter with respect to visual representation of the control parameter. For example as the user moves computing device to the right across visual representation each subsequent position device may be used to increase the volume of a volume control parameter. As described herein the position information may include coordinates of the respective position device that remote server uses to identify the position of each position device and the respective representative magnitude of the control parameter.

In addition the control parameter may be at least partially adjusted based on the movement of computing device . As described herein computing device may utilize one or more sensors to detect movement of computing device from a position device . Computing device may then transmit the detected movement to remote server such that remote server may estimate the actual position of computing device with respect to the previous position device and visual representation . In other words the detected movement of computing device with respect to the most recently identified position device may allow remote server to resolve the position of computing device with greater precision and accuracy than may otherwise be possible with only position information from position devices . Since there may be a gap between position devices the exact position of computing device between adjacent position devices may be difficult to determine. The detected movement may aid remote server to better determine the position of computing device and adjust the control parameter in smaller increments based on this more accurate position.

In one example computing device may detect movement using accelerations of computing device . Computing device may include one or more accelerometers e.g. a single axis two axis or three axis accelerometer that measure accelerations of computing device after computing device obtains position information from one of position devices . Computing device may measure the accelerations continually or only in response to obtaining position information. Computing device may then calculate a distance and a direction that computing device was moved from the last identified position device based on the measured accelerations. The distance computing device has moved may be calculated for example by double integrating the acceleration measurements over time. Using this detected movement remote server may accordingly adjust the control parameter.

In another example computing device may detect movement of computing device using optically obtained information. Computing device may capture a plurality of images with an optical sensor e.g. camera of computing device as computing device is moved with respect to visual representation . The optical sensor may be disposed on or within the housing of computing device . For example the optical sensor may be disposed opposite user interface such that the optical sensor is facing visual representation . As computing device is moving computing device may begin capturing images in response to obtaining position information from any position device . In some examples computing device may only capture images if computing device detects movement e.g. based on output from accelerometer . Computing device may control the capturing of images using other techniques in other examples. Computing device may then analyze changes between the captured images to determine the distance computing device moves in between obtaining position information from position devices .

Using any technique to determine the movement of computing device subsequent detection of one or more position devices may be used to correct the estimation of computing device movement. For example computing device may obtain position information a subsequent position device after obtaining position information from a previous position device . Based on the known distance between the identified positions of the two position devices from the obtained position information the detected movement of computing device may be corrected. Although remote server may correct the detected movement computing device may correct the detected movement in other examples.

Visual representation of virtual controller may take any form that is identifiable with the control parameter. For example visual representation may be a slider or a dial. In other examples visual representation of the control parameter may include a ramp descriptive words e.g. low and high or even numerical indications of the control parameter magnitude. The visual representation may also be provided as printed media or an electronic display e.g. a liquid crystal display light emitting diodes etc. . In other examples virtual controller may include visual representations of two or more control parameters. Virtual controller may also include a sufficient number of position devices so that computing device can adjust each control parameter.

Generally position information obtained from position devices may include coordinates and or a URL that indicates the position of each respective position device within virtual controller . In this manner transmission of the position information to remote server may include a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request to remote server using the URL. In some examples position information may also have a code or other identifier that identifies the control parameter and the target device of which can be adjusted based on the position of computing device . The user may use computing device or a different computing device to initialize virtual controller as linked to the specific target device and control parameter. In this manner computing device may even write data to one or more of position devices to setup the link between position devices and adjustment of the control parameter. Alternatively virtual controller may be preconfigured by a manufacturer for the target device. For example computing device may obtain information identifying remote server wherein the information was stored in position devices when position devices were assembled into mounting surface .

User interface is an example of user interface . As shown in user interface presents screen to the user via computing device . Screen includes status bar target device field value information control parameter field and close button . Screen may be an example screen within application of e.g. an application for providing supplemental information running on computing device . For example the supplemental information may include details about the adjusted control parameter and the target device.

Status bar may include one or more icons that indicate the status of computing device and or applications running on computing device . For example status bar may present a time of day battery charge level network signal strength application updates received messages or even notification that position information has been received from a position device . Target device field may indicate the target device that is being at least partially controlled based on the adjusted control parameter. Target device field indicates that Jukebox is the target device being controlled. Control parameter field may indicate the control parameter that was just adjusted based on the position information and or detected movement of computing device . Control parameter field indicates that the control parameter of Volume has been adjusted.

Value information may provide any information related to the adjustment of the identified control parameter. Value information may include any graphical numerical or textual information to indicate the present value of the control parameter and or how the value has been adjusted. In the example of value information includes value and graph . Value indicates the numerical value of the control parameter as it has been adjusted. Value may be presented as a percentage of the total possible value of the control parameter e.g. 65 percent of the total available volume or as an absolute value of the control parameter e.g. 85 decibels for volume . If computing device is subsequently moved along virtual controller to adjust the control parameter computing device may update value information according to the received adjustment from remote server . Graph provides a graphical indication of the currently adjusted control parameter. The shaded portion of graph indicates the used volume level. In other words the value of the control parameter would be set to maximum if the entire graph was shaded.

Value and graph are examples of possible indications of the adjusted value of the control parameter. Value information may include in other examples dials bar graphs text or any other manner of displaying the value of the control parameter. In addition value information may provide values to different control parameters for the target device. Screen may be presented automatically on computing device in response to receiving the adjusted value of the control parameter from remote server . Alternatively computing device may prompt the user to view the control parameter or the user may navigate one or more menus of computing device to initiate display of screen .

Using short range communication device e.g. an NFC device processor may obtain position information from one of position devices when computing device is placed proximate to visual representation . Once processor obtains the position information processor may transmit the position information to a network device such as remote server via network . Processor may then start or continue to detect movement of computing device with respect to virtual controller . Processor may detect movement of computing device immediately after transmitting position information to remote server or even in response to obtaining position information at block . In some examples processor may receive parameter information from remote server in parallel with detecting movement of computing device .

If processor does not detect any movement of computing device via accelerometer NO branch of block processor may check if the detection of movement is to be terminated . For example processor may receive a user input or other command that indicates the parameter is no longer to be adjusted or control of the target device is to be terminated. If processor is commanded to terminate the detection YES branch of block processor may terminate the adjustment of the parameter identified in the position information . If processor is not commanded to terminate the detection of movement NO branch of block processor may continue to detect movement of computing device .

If processor detects movement of computing device based on a change in output from accelerometer YES branch of block processor may measure accelerations of computing device . Processor may command accelerometer to being sensing accelerations or processor may begin accessing accelerometer data to measure the accelerations. Using the acceleration values processor may calculate the distance computing device has moved by double integrating the measured accelerations. Processor may also calculate the direction computing device has moved by determining the vector based on direction components of the distance values. Alternatively processor may calculate the direction of movement by taking a single integration of the acceleration values and using the velocity vector.

Once the distance and direction of movement has been calculated processor may transmit the calculated distance and direction of computing device movement to remote server such that remote server can update the position of computing device . Processor may then receive the adjusted value of the control parameter via network . Once the adjusted value of the control parameter is received by computing device processor may display the adjusted value of the control parameter that is based on the transmitted position information . For example the adjusted value may be presented on screen of .

If processor next receives a command to terminate the detection of computing device movement e.g. termination of target device control YES branch of block processor then terminates the adjustment of the parameter . Processor may then obtain subsequent position information . If processor does not receive any command or input to terminate the detection of movement NO branch of block processor may determine if any new position information is detected . If no new position information is detected NO branch of block processor may again detect movement of computing device . If processor detects new position information YES branch of block processor may again obtain additional position information from subsequent position devices .

Although each operation of the technique in is described in a linear fashion some operations may occur simultaneously or in parallel. For example processor may continue to detect measure and calculate additional movement of computing device while processor is transmitting the calculated movement to remote server and or receiving an adjusted value of the parameter from remote server . In another example the adjustment of the parameter and the control of the target device may be interrupted and or terminated at any step in the process. Therefore processor or other components of computing device may be performing multiple operations of concurrently.

In other examples the control parameter may be adjusted without detecting the movement of computing device . Remote server may only adjust the control parameter upon receiving position information from computing device . In this example the process of adjusting the value of the control parameter may follow operations and without any of the movement detection operations. Although position information from position devices used without movement of computing device may provide a more coarse adjustment to the control parameter computing device and remote server may not need to perform the additional calculations to adjust the control parameter. In some examples the user of computing device may provide input to computing device that enables or disables the use of detected movement to refine the adjustment of the control parameter. Alternatively remote server may automatically enable or disable adjustments based on detected movement of computing device according to the hardware and or software capabilities of computing device .

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. The term processor or processing circuitry may generally refer to any of the foregoing logic circuitry alone or in combination with other logic circuitry or any other equivalent circuitry. A control unit including hardware may also perform one or more of the techniques of this disclosure.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various techniques described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware firmware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware firmware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware firmware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium encoded may cause one or more programmable processors or other processors to implement one or more of the techniques described herein such as when instructions included or encoded in the computer readable storage medium are executed by the one or more processors. Computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a compact disc ROM CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable media.

In some examples a computer readable storage medium may comprise non transitory medium. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

Various aspects of the disclosure have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

