---

title: Transfer device with bias output device and image forming apparatus including same
abstract: A transfer device includes a rotatable image bearing member to bear a toner image on a surface thereof, a nip forming member to contact the surface of the image bearing member, and a bias output device to output a bias current to alternately form a transfer-direction electric field to transfer toner charged with a normal polarity in a toner image formed on the image bearing member to move therefrom to a recording medium and a return-direction electric field to return the toner from the recording medium to the image bearing member. A transition time T from a first time at which a current for forming the transfer-direction electric field reaches its maximum (It) to a second time at which a current for forming the return-direction electric field reaches its maximum (Ir) is longer than a transition time T from the second time to the first time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929760&OS=08929760&RS=08929760
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08929760
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121015
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 from Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2011 248575 filed on Nov. 14 2011 and 2012 157388 filed on Jul. 13 2012 both in the Japan Patent Office which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Exemplary aspects of the present invention generally relate to an image forming apparatus such as a copier a facsimile machine a printer or a multi functional system including a combination thereof and more particularly to a transfer device employed in the image forming apparatus.

Related art image forming apparatuses such as copiers facsimile machines printers or multifunction printers having at least one of copying printing scanning and facsimile capabilities typically form an image on a recording medium according to image data. Thus for example a charger uniformly charges a surface of an image bearing member which may for example be a photoconductive drum an optical writer projects a light beam onto the charged surface of the image bearing member to form an electrostatic latent image on the image bearing member according to the image data a developing device supplies toner to the electrostatic latent image formed on the image bearing member to render the electrostatic latent image visible as a toner image the toner image is directly transferred from the image bearing member onto a recording medium or is indirectly transferred from the image bearing member onto a recording medium via an intermediate transfer member a cleaning device then cleans the surface of the image carrier after the toner image is transferred from the image carrier onto the recording medium finally a fixing device applies heat and pressure to the recording medium bearing the unfixed toner image to fix the unfixed toner image on the recording medium thus forming the image on the recording medium.

In recent years a variety of recording media sheets such as paper having a leather like texture and Japanese paper known as Washi have come on the market. Such recording media sheets have a coarse surface acquired through embossing. However toner does not transfer well to such embossed surfaces of the recording media in particular recessed portions of the surface. This inadequate transfer of the toner appears as a pattern of light and dark patches in the resulting output image.

In order to overcome such difficulty a superimposed bias in which an alternating current AC voltage is superimposed on a direct current DC voltage is supplied as a secondary transfer bias to enhance transferability of toner as disclosed for example in JP 2006 267486 A.

In order to further enhance transferability of toner for recording media sheets having a coarse surface the surface of the recording medium on which a toner image is transferred is supplied with a positive charge before transfer. During the transfer process the transfer device is supplied with the superimposed bias as a transfer bias in which an AC voltage is superimposed on a DC voltage.

Although generally effective for its intended purpose the toner is still not transferred well to the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium resulting in image defects such as multiple white spots or dropouts.

In view of the above there is thus an unsolved need for an image forming apparatus capable of maintaining good toner transferability regardless of the type of recording media sheets.

In view of the foregoing in an aspect of this disclosure there is provided an improved transfer device including a rotatable image bearing member a nip forming member and a bias output device. The rotatable image bearing member bears a toner image on a surface thereof. The nip forming member contacts the surface of the image bearing member bearing the toner image to form a transfer nip therebetween. The bias output device applies a bias to transfer the toner image on the image bearing member onto a recording medium in the transfer nip. The bias output device outputs a bias current to alternately form a transfer direction electric field to transfer toner charged with a normal polarity in the toner image to move from the image bearing member to the recording medium and a return direction electric field to return the toner charged with the normal polarity from the recording medium to the image bearing member. A transition time T from a first time at which a current for forming the transfer direction electric field reaches its maximum It to a second time at which a current for forming the return direction electric field reaches its maximum Ir is longer than a transition time T from the second time to the first time.

According to another aspect an improved transfer device includes a rotatable image bearing member a nip forming member and a bias output device. The rotatable image bearing member bears a toner image on a surface thereof. The nip forming member contacts the surface of the image bearing member bearing the toner image to form a transfer nip therebetween. The bias output device applies a bias to transfer the toner image on the image bearing member onto a recording medium in the transfer nip. The bias output device outputs a bias current to alternately form a transfer direction electric field to transfer toner charged with a normal polarity in the toner image to move from the image bearing member to the recording medium and a return direction electric field to return the toner charged with the normal polarity from the recording medium to the image bearing member. A time T during which a current for forming the transfer direction electric field is applied is longer than a time T during which a current for forming the return direction electric field is applied.

According to another aspect an improved transfer device includes a rotatable image bearing member a nip forming member and a bias output device. The rotatable image bearing member bears a toner image on a surface thereof. The nip forming member contacts the surface of the image bearing member bearing the toner image to form a transfer nip therebetween. The bias output device applies a bias to transfer the toner image on the image bearing member onto a recording medium in the transfer nip. The bias output device outputs a bias current to alternately form a transfer direction electric field to transfer toner charged with a normal polarity in the toner image to move from the image bearing member to the recording medium and a return direction electric field to return the toner charged with the normal polarity from the recording medium to the image bearing member. A transition time T from a first time at which a current for forming the transfer direction electric field reaches its maximum It to a second time at which a current for forming the return direction electric field reaches its maximum Ir is longer than a transition time T from the second time to the first time. A time T during which a current for forming the transfer direction electric field is applied is longer than a time T during which a current for forming the return direction electric field is applied

The aforementioned and other aspects features and advantages would be more fully apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments the accompanying drawings and the associated claims.

A description is now given of illustrative embodiments of the present invention. It should be noted that although such terms as first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections it should be understood that such elements components regions layers and or sections are not limited thereby because such terms are relative that is used only to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus for example a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of this disclosure.

In addition it should be noted that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of this disclosure. Thus for example as used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Moreover the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing illustrative embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner and achieve a similar result.

In a later described comparative example illustrative embodiment and alternative example for the sake of simplicity the same reference numerals will be given to constituent elements such as parts and materials having the same functions and redundant descriptions thereof omitted.

Typically but not necessarily paper is the medium from which is made a sheet on which an image is to be formed. It should be noted however that other printable media are available in sheet form and accordingly their use here is included. Thus solely for simplicity although this Detailed Description section refers to paper sheets thereof paper feeder etc. it should be understood that the sheets etc. are not limited only to paper but include other printable media as well.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views and initially with reference to a description is provided of an image forming apparatus according to an aspect of this disclosure.

Before going into detail about illustrative embodiments of the present invention initially with reference to a description is provided of a mechanism of generation of toner dropouts or white spots in recessed portions of a surface of a recording medium.

In the secondary transfer nip N a recording medium P tightly contacts a toner image on the intermediate transfer belt and the toner image is transferred secondarily onto the recording medium P due to a secondary transfer bias. The secondary bias for transferring the toner image onto a recording medium is applied to one of the nip forming roller and the secondary transfer back surface roller and the other one of these rollers is grounded.

The toner image can be transferred onto the recording medium P by applying the transfer bias to either the nip forming roller or the secondary transfer back surface roller . Herein a description is provided of application of the secondary transfer bias to the secondary transfer back surface roller when using toner having a negative polarity. In this case in order to move the toner in the secondary transfer nip N from the secondary transfer back surface roller side to the nip forming roller side a superimposed bias is applied as the secondary transfer bias. More specifically a time averaged electrical potential of the secondary transfer bias has a negative polarity which is the same polarity as the toner.

With reference to a description is provided of the secondary transfer bias using the superimposed bias applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller . is a waveform chart showing an example of a waveform of the superimposed bias as the secondary transfer bias. In an offset voltage Vave V is a time averaged value of the secondary transfer bias. In this example the superimposed bias as the secondary transfer bias has a sinusoidal waveform which includes a peak at a positive side and a peak at a negative side.

In a reference sign Vt refers to one of the two peak values that is the peak value for moving the toner in the secondary transfer nip N from the belt side to the recording medium side i.e. the negative peak value in the present example hereinafter referred to as a transfer peak value Vt . A reference sign Vr refers to the other peak value that is the peak value for returning the toner from the recording medium side to the belt side i.e. the positive peak value in the present example hereinafter referred to as a returning peak value Vr .

Even when an alternating current AC bias including only an AC component is applied it is possible to move the toner back and forth between the intermediate transfer belt and the recording medium P in the secondary transfer nip N. However the AC bias simply moves the toner back and forth between the intermediate transfer belt and the recording medium P but does not transfer the toner onto the recording medium. If a superimposed bias including a DC component is applied to adjust the offset voltage Vave V that is the time averaged value of the superimposed bias to the same negative polarity as the toner it is possible to enable the toner to relatively move from the belt side toward the recording medium P while the toner moves back and forth between the belt side and the recording medium side. Accordingly the toner can be transferred onto the recording medium P.

According to experiments performed by the present inventors when the secondary transfer bias including a superimposed bias starts being applied only a very small number of toner particles on the surface of a toner layer on the intermediate transfer belt first separates from the toner layer and moves toward recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium P. However most of the toner particles in the toner layer remain therein. The very small number of toner particles separated from the toner layer enters the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium P.

Subsequently if the direction of the electric field is reversed the toner particles return from the recessed portions to the toner layer. When this happens the toner particles returning to the toner layer strike the toner particles remaining in the toner layer so that adhesion of the toner particles to the toner layer or to the recording medium P is weakened. As a result when the polarity of the electric field reverses towards the direction of the recording medium more toner particles than in the initial time separate from the toner layer and move to the recessed portions of the recording medium P.

As this process is repeated the amount of toner particles separating from the toner layer and entering the recessed portions of the recording medium is increased gradually. Consequently a sufficient amount of toner particles is transferred to the recessed portions of the recording medium P.

In this configuration however the level of the returning peak value Vr needs to be relatively high. Otherwise the toner particles once entered in the recessed portions of the recording medium surface cannot be returned adequately to the toner layer on the intermediate transfer belt resulting in a deficiency in image density in the recessed portions. Furthermore the level of the offset voltage time averaged voltage Vave V needs to be relatively high. Otherwise an amount of toner transferred onto projecting portions of the recording medium is insufficient resulting in a deficiency in image density in the projecting portions.

In order to obtain sufficient image density in both the projecting and the recessed portions of the recording medium surface a peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be relatively high so as to make the offset voltage Vave V and the returning peak value Vr relatively high. Accordingly the transfer peak value Vt is also relatively high. The transfer peak value Vt corresponds to the maximum potential difference between the nip forming roller being grounded and the secondary transfer back surface roller . Hence when the transfer peak value Vt becomes high electrical discharge tends to occur easily between the rollers.

More specifically electrical discharge occurs between a slight gap between the belt surface and the recessed portions of the recording medium surface causing dropouts or white spots in the image formed on the recessed portions of the recording medium surface. It is known that image defects such as dropouts or white spots tend to occur easily in the image formed on the recessed portions of the recording medium surface because the peak to peak voltage Vpp is relatively high to obtain sufficient image density in the projecting portions and the recessed portions of the recording medium surface.

In order to prevent improper transfer of toner that is dropouts or white spots in the recessed portions of the recording medium surface according to a first illustrative embodiment of the present invention the AC component of the transfer bias is applied such that a transfer direction electric field for causing toner charged with a normal polarity in a toner image to move from the image bearing member to the recording medium P and a return direction electric field for returning toner from the recording medium P to the image bearing member are formed. Further a time T is longer than a time T shown in where T is a transition time from a time at which a current for forming the transfer direction electric field reaches its maximum It to a time at which a current for forming the return direction electric field reaches its maximum Ir and T is a transition time from Ir to It. With this configuration improper transfer of toner such as dropouts is prevented while obtaining sufficient image density on the embossed surface including projecting portions and the recessed portions of the recording medium as compared with having the same transition time from It to Ir and from Ir to It .

It is to be noted that in this specification the current for forming an electric field for causing toner to move from the image bearing member to the recording medium P is referred to as a transfer direction current while referring the current for forming an electric field for returning toner from the recording medium P to the image bearing member as a return direction current. The return direction current has a polarity opposite that of the transfer direction current.

According to a second illustrative embodiment of the present invention the AC component of the transfer bias is applied such that the transfer direction electric field for causing toner in a toner image to move from the image bearing member to the recording medium P and the return direction electric field for returning toner from the recording medium P to the image bearing member are formed. Further a time T is longer than a time T shown in where T is a time during which the transfer direction current is applied and T is a time during which the return direction current is applied. With this configuration improper transfer of toner such as dropouts is prevented while obtaining sufficient image density on the embossed surface including projecting portions and the recessed portions of the recording medium as compared with the time during which the transfer direction current is applied equals the time during which the return direction current is applied.

When transferring toner to a recording medium having a coarse surface such as an embossed surface the transferability depends on the offset voltage time averaged voltage Vave or the time averaged current offset current lave but does not depend on the transfer peak value Vt. However the transferability upon transferring toner to the recessed portions of the recording medium drops significantly unless the level of the returning peak value Vr is equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold value. In a case in which the level of the returning peak value Vr is equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold value the transferability also depends on the level of the time averaged current offset current lave similar to the projecting portions of the recording medium.

In order to transfer toner properly onto the recording medium having a coarse surface a minimum required level of Vr and a sufficient Vave are needed. In a case in which a sinusoidal waveform or a symmetric rectangular waveform in which the time T equals the time T and the time during which a normal transfer direction current is applied is equal to the time during which the return direction current is applied when lave and Vr are determined the given level of Vt is high. As a result improper transfer of toner occurs.

In view of the above according to the first illustrative embodiment employing a waveform in which T is longer than T T1 T2 can maintain effectively a sufficient amount of time for forming the transfer direction electric field so that the necessary Vr and the sufficient lave are obtained while maintaining Vt low.

According to the second illustrative embodiment employing a waveform in which the time T is longer than the time T T3 T4 can obtain effectively the sufficient amount of time for forming the transfer direction electric field so that the necessary Vr and the sufficient lave are obtained while maintaining Vt low.

With reference to a description is provided of the image forming apparatus according to the illustrative embodiment of the present invention. It is to be noted that the mechanical configurations of the image forming apparatus of the first and the second illustrative embodiment are same.

According to the present illustrative embodiment an intermediate transfer belt serves as the intermediate transfer member disposed substantially in the center of the image forming apparatus. As illustrated in the image forming apparatus includes four image forming units Y M C and K which may be collectively referred to as image forming units an optical writing unit a transfer unit including the intermediate transfer belt a fixing device and so forth. Substantially above the intermediate transfer belt the image forming units Y M C and K one for each of the colors yellow magenta cyan and black are arranged in tandem in the direction of movement of the intermediate transfer belt indicated by a hollow arrow A thereby constituting a tandem imaging station.

It is to be noted that suffixes Y M C and K denote the colors yellow magenta cyan and black respectively. To simplify the description these suffixes Y M C and K indicating colors are omitted herein unless otherwise specified. According to the illustrative embodiment the image forming units Y M C and K are detachably attachable relative to the image forming apparatus main body.

With reference to a description is provided of the image forming units Y M C and K. It is to be noted that the image forming units Y M C and K all have the same configurations as all the others differing only in the color of toner employed. Thus a description is provided of the image forming unit K as an example of the image forming units.

The photosensitive drum K is constituted of a drum shaped base on which an organic photosensitive layer is disposed. The photosensitive drum K is rotated in a clockwise direction indicated by an arrow R by a driving device not illustrated. The charging roller K of the charging device K is supplied with a charging bias. The charging roller K contacts or is disposed close to the photosensitive drum K to generate an electrical discharge therebetween thereby charging uniformly the surface of the photosensitive drum K.

According to the present illustrative embodiment the photosensitive drum K is uniformly charged with a negative polarity which is the same polarity as the normal charge on toner. More specifically the photosensitive drum K is charged uniformly at approximately 650 V. As the charging bias an AC voltage superimposed on a DC voltage is employed. The charging roller K is formed of a metal cored bar covered with a conductive elastic layer made of conductive elastic material. Instead of using the charging roller or the like that contacts or disposed close to the photoconductive drum K a corona charger or the like that does not contact the photoconductive drum K may be employed.

A description of the developing device is provided later. According to the present illustrative embodiment a two component developing agent is used. Alternatively a single component developing agent may be used.

The cleaning device removes residual toner remaining on the surface of the photosensitive drum K after primary transfer. According to the present illustrative embodiment the cleaning device K includes a cleaning blade K and a cleaning brush K. The cleaning blade K of the cleaning device K contacts the surface of the photosensitive drum K at a certain angle such that the leading edge of the cleaning blade K faces counter to the direction of rotation R of the photosensitive drum K. The cleaning brush K rotates in the direction opposite to the direction of rotation R of the photosensitive drum K while contacting the photosensitive drum K thereby cleaning the surface of the photosensitive drum K.

A charge neutralizing device removes residual charge remaining on the photosensitive drum K after the surface thereof is cleaned by the cleaning device K so that the surface of the photosensitive drum K is initialized in preparation for the subsequent imaging cycle.

Referring back to a description is provided of the optical writing unit . The optical writing unit for writing a latent image on each of the photosensitive drums Y M C and K which may be collectively referred to as photosensitive drums is disposed above the image forming units Y M C and K. Based on image information received from external devices such as a personal computer PC the optical writing unit illuminates the photosensitive drums Y M C and K with a light beam projected from a light source such as a laser diode of the optical writing unit . Accordingly the electrostatic latent images of yellow magenta cyan and black are formed on the photosensitive drums Y M C and K respectively.

More specifically the potential of a portion of the uniformly charged surface of the photosensitive drums illuminated with the light beam is attenuated. The potential of the illuminated portion of the photosensitive drum with the light beam is less than the potential of the other area that is a background portion non image formation area thereby forming an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photosensitive drum . The optical writing unit includes a polygon mirror a plurality of optical lenses and mirrors. The light beam projected from the light source is deflected in a main scanning direction by the polygon mirror rotated by a polygon motor. The deflected light then strikes the optical lenses and mirrors thereby scanning the photosensitive drum . Alternatively the optical writing unit may employ a light source using an LED array including a plurality of LEDs that projects light.

Still referring to a description is provided of the transfer unit . The transfer unit is disposed below the image forming units Y M C and K. The transfer unit includes the intermediate transfer belt serving as an image bearing member formed into an endless loop and entrained about a plurality of rollers thereby rotating endlessly in the counterclockwise direction indicated by arrow A. The transfer unit also includes a driving roller a secondary transfer back surface roller a cleaning auxiliary roller four primary transfer rollers Y M C and K which may be referred to collectively as primary transfer rollers a nip forming roller a belt cleaning device an voltage detector and so forth. The primary transfer rollers Y M C and K are disposed opposite the photosensitive drums Y M C and K respectively via the intermediate transfer belt .

The intermediate transfer belt is entrained around and stretched taut between the driving roller the secondary transfer back surface roller the cleaning auxiliary roller and the primary transfer rollers all disposed inside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt . The driving roller is rotated by a driving device not illustrated enabling the intermediate transfer belt to move in the direction of arrow A.

The surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt is in a range of from approximately 9.0 Log cm to approximately 13.0 Log cm preferably approximately 10.0 Log cm to approximately 12.0 Log cm . The surface resistivity is measured with an applied voltage of 500V by HIRESTA UPMCPHT 45 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation with an HRS probe. The volume resistivity is obtained after 10 seconds elapses. The volume resistivity thereof is in a range of from approximately 6.0 Log cm to approximately 13 Log cm preferably in a range of from approximately 7.5 Log cm to approximately 13 Log cm . The volume resistivity is measured with an applied voltage of 100V by the high resistivity meter HIRESTA UPMCPHT 45 with the HRS probe manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. The volume resistivity is obtained after 10 seconds elapses.

The intermediate transfer belt is interposed between the photosensitive drums and the primary transfer rollers . Accordingly primary transfer nips are formed between the front surface image bearing surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the photosensitive drums Y M C and K contacting the intermediate transfer belt . A primary transfer bias is applied to the primary transfer rollers by a transfer bias power source thereby forming a transfer electric field between the toner images on the photosensitive drums and the primary transfer rollers . Accordingly the toner images are transferred primarily from the photosensitive drums onto the intermediate transfer belt due to the transfer electric field and nip pressure at the primary transfer nips.

More specifically the toner images of yellow magenta cyan and black are transferred primarily onto the intermediate transfer belt so that they are superimposed one atop the other thereby forming a composite toner image.

In the case of forming a monochrome image a support plate supporting the primary transfer rollers Y M and C of the transfer unit is moved to separate the primary transfer rollers Y M and C from the photosensitive drums Y M and C. Accordingly the front surface of the intermediate transfer belt that is the image bearing surface is separated from the photosensitive drums Y M and C so that the intermediate transfer belt contacts only the photosensitive drum K. In this state only the image forming unit K is operated to form a toner image of black on the photosensitive drum K.

Each of the primary transfer rollers comprises an elastic roller including a metal cored bar on which a conductive sponge layer is fixated. The shaft center of each of the shafts of the primary transfer rollers is approximately 2.5 mm off from the shaft center of each of the shafts of the photosensitive drums toward the downstream side in the direction of movement of the intermediate transfer belt . The primary transfer rollers described above are supplied with a constant current controlled primary transfer bias.

According to the illustrative embodiment described above a roller type transfer device here the primary transfer rollers is used as a primary transfer device. Alternatively a transfer charger or a brush type transfer device may be employed as a primary transfer device.

As illustrated in the nip forming roller of the transfer unit is disposed outside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt opposite the secondary transfer back surface roller which is disposed inside the loop. The intermediate transfer belt is interposed between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller . Accordingly a secondary transfer nip is formed between the peripheral surface or the image bearing surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the nip forming roller contacting the surface of the intermediate transfer belt .

The nip forming roller is grounded by contrast a secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller by a secondary transfer bias power source serving as a bias output device. With this configuration a secondary transfer electric field is formed between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller so that the toner moves electrostatically from the secondary transfer back surface roller side to the nip forming roller side.

As illustrated in a sheet cassette storing a stack of recording media sheets P is disposed below the transfer unit . The sheet cassette is equipped with a sheet feed roller to contact a top sheet of the stack of recording media sheets P. As the sheet feed roller is rotated at a predetermined speed the sheet feed roller picks up the top sheet and feeds it to a sheet passage in the image forming apparatus.

Substantially at the end of the sheet passage a pair of registration rollers is disposed. The pair of registration rollers stops rotating temporarily immediately after the recording medium P delivered from the sheet cassette is interposed therebetween. The pair of registration rollers starts to rotate again to feed the recording medium P to the secondary transfer nip in appropriate timing such that the recording medium P is aligned with a composite or monochrome toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip.

In the secondary transfer nip the recording medium P tightly contacts the composite or the monochrome toner image on the intermediate transfer belt and the composite or the monochrome toner image is transferred secondarily onto the recording medium P due to the secondary transfer electric field and the nip pressure applied thereto. After the recording medium P on which the composite or monochrome toner image is transferred passes through the secondary transfer nip the recording medium P separates from the nip forming roller and the intermediate transfer belt due to the curvature of the nip forming roller also known as self stripping.

The secondary transfer back surface roller is formed of a metal cored bar on which a conductive nitrile rubber NBR layer is disposed. The nip forming roller is formed of a metal cored bar on which the NBR rubber layer is disposed. The volume resistivity of the secondary transfer back surface roller is in a range of from approximately 6.0 to approximately 8.0 Log cm . The volume resistivity of the secondary transfer back surface roller is measured with a weight of 5 N at one side while applying a bias of 1 kV to the shaft of the transfer roller using the rotation measurement method in which the volume resistivity is measured while the roller makes one rotation in one minute.

The voltage detector is disposed outside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt opposite the driving roller which is grounded. More specifically the voltage detector faces a portion of the intermediate transfer belt entrained around the driving roller with a gap of approximately 4 mm. The surface potential of the toner image primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt is measured when the toner image comes to the position opposite the voltage detector . In the present illustrative embodiment a surface potential sensor EFS 22D manufactured by TDK Corp. is employed as the voltage detector .

The fixing device is disposed on the right hand side of the secondary transfer nip between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the intermediate transfer belt . The fixing device includes a fixing roller and a pressing roller . The fixing roller includes a heat source such as a halogen lamp inside thereof. While rotating the pressing roller pressingly contacts the fixing roller thereby forming a heated area called a fixing nip therebetween. The recording medium P bearing an unfixed toner image on the surface thereof is conveyed to the fixing device and interposed between the fixing roller and the pressing roller in the fixing device . Under heat and pressure the toner adhered to the toner image is softened and fixed to the recording medium P in the fixing nip. Subsequently the recording medium P is discharged outside the image forming apparatus from the fixing device along the sheet passage after fixing.

According to the present illustrative embodiment a process linear velocity in a normal mode that is a linear velocity of the photosensitive drum and the intermediate transfer belt is approximately 280 mm s. It is to be noted that the process linear velocity in a high quality image mode in which priority is given to image quality over the printing speed is slower than that in the normal mode. By contrast the process linear velocity in a high speed mode in which priority is given to the printing speed over the image quality is faster than that in the normal mode. Switching between the normal mode the high quality image mode and the high speed mode is performed through a key operation by a user on a control panel serving as a user interface or a printer property menu of a personal computer.

According to the present illustrative embodiment the secondary transfer bias power source serving as a secondary transfer bias output device includes a direct current DC power source and an alternating current AC power source and can output a DC voltage hereinafter referred to as DC bias or a superimposed bias as the secondary transfer bias. The superimposed bias includes an AC voltage superimposed on a DC voltage.

According to the present illustrative embodiment shown in the nip forming roller is grounded while the superimposed bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller . Alternatively the secondary transfer back surface roller may be grounded while the superimposed bias is supplied to the nip forming roller . More specifically as illustrated in in a case in which the superimposed bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller while toner having a negative polarity is used and the nip forming roller is grounded the DC voltage having the same negative polarity as the toner is used so that the time averaged potential of the superimposed bias has the same negative polarity as that of the toner.

By contrast in a case in which the secondary transfer back surface roller is grounded and the superimposed bias is applied to the nip forming roller the DC voltage having the positive polarity opposite that of the toner is used so that the time averaged potential of the superimposed bias has the positive polarity opposite that of the toner. Instead of applying the superimposed bias to the secondary transfer back surface roller or to the nip forming roller the DC voltage may be supplied to one of the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller and the AC voltage may be supplied to the other roller.

When using a normal sheet of paper such as the one having a relatively smooth surface a pattern of dark and light according to the surface conditions of the sheet is less likely to appear on the resulting image formed on the recording medium. In this case the transfer bias consisting only of the DC voltage is applied. By contrast when using a recording medium having a coarse surface such as pulp paper and embossed paper the transfer bias needs to be changed from the transfer bias consisting only of the DC voltage to the superimposed bias.

After the intermediate transfer belt passes through the secondary transfer nip residual toner not having been transferred onto the recording medium P remains on the intermediate transfer belt . The residual toner is removed from the intermediate transfer belt by the belt cleaning device which contacts the surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The cleaning auxiliary roller disposed inside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt supports cleaning operation by the belt cleaning device from inside the loop of the intermediate transfer belt so that the residual toner on the intermediate transfer belt is removed reliably.

As described above the secondary transfer bias power source outputs a superimposed bias including a DC component and an AC component as a secondary transfer bias. According to the present illustrative embodiment the DC component of the superimposed bias has the same value as the time averaged voltage Vave which is the voltage having the DC component.

In the image forming apparatus of the illustrative embodiment in which the secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller is grounded if the polarity of the superimposed bias is negative so is the polarity of the toner the toner having the negative polarity is moved electrostatically from the secondary transfer back surface roller side to the nip forming roller side in the secondary transfer nip. Accordingly the toner on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto the recording medium P.

By contrast if the polarity of the superimposed bias has a polarity opposite that of the toner that is the polarity of the superimposed bias is positive the toner having a negative polarity is attracted electrostatically to the secondary transfer back surface roller side from the nip forming roller side. Consequently the toner transferred to the recording medium P is attracted again to the intermediate transfer belt .

The present inventors performed experiments using special observation equipment shown in . is a schematic diagram illustrating the observation equipment for observation of behavior of toner in the secondary transfer nip. The observation equipment includes a transparent substrate a metal plate a substrate a development device a power supply a Z stage a light source a microscope a high speed camera a personal computer a voltage amplifier a waveform generator and so forth.

The transparent substrate includes a glass plate a transparent electrode made of Indium Tin Oxide ITO and disposed on a lower surface of the glass plate and a transparent insulating layer made of a transparent material covering the transparent electrode . The transparent substrate is supported at a predetermined height position by a substrate support. The substrate support is allowed to move in the vertical and horizontal directions in the drawing by a moving assembly. In the illustrated example shown in the transparent substrate is located above the Z stage having the metal plate placed thereon. The transparent substrate is capable of moving to a position directly above the development device disposed lateral to the Z stage in accordance with the movement of the substrate support. The transparent electrode of the transparent substrate is connected to a grounded electrode fixed to the substrate support.

The development device is similar in configuration to the development device K illustrated in according to the illustrative embodiment and includes a screw a development roll a doctor blade and so forth. The development roll is driven to rotate with a development bias applied thereto by the power supply .

In accordance with the movement of the substrate support the transparent substrate is moved at a predetermined speed to a position directly above the development device and disposed opposite the development roll with a predetermined gap therebetween. Then toner on the development roll is transferred to the transparent electrode of the transparent substrate . Thereby a toner layer having a predetermined thickness is formed on the transparent electrode of the transparent substrate . The toner adhesion amount per unit area in the toner layer is adjustable by the toner density in the developing agent the toner charge amount the development bias value the gap between the transparent substrate and the development roll the moving speed of the transparent substrate the rotation speed of the development roll and so forth.

The transparent substrate formed with the toner layer is translated to a position opposite a recording medium adhered to the planar metal plate by a conductive adhesive. The metal plate is placed on the substrate which is provided with a load sensor and placed on the Z stage . Further the metal plate is connected to the voltage amplifier . The waveform generator provides the voltage amplifier with a transfer bias including a DC voltage and an AC voltage.

The transfer bias is amplified by the voltage amplifier and applied to the metal plate . If the Z stage is drive controlled and elevates the metal plate the recording medium starts coming into contact with the toner layer . If the metal plate is further elevated the pressure applied to the toner layer increases. The elevation of the metal plate is stopped when the output from the load sensor reaches a predetermined value.

With the pressure maintained at the predetermined value a transfer bias is applied to the metal plate and the behavior of the toner is observed. After the observation the Z stage is drive controlled to lower the metal plate and separate the recording medium from the transparent substrate . Thereby the toner layer is transferred onto the recording medium .

The behavior of the toner is examined using the microscope and the high speed camera disposed above the transparent substrate . The transparent substrate is formed of the layers of the glass plate the transparent electrode and the transparent insulating layer which are all made of transparent material. It is therefore possible to observe from above and through the transparent substrate the behavior of the toner located under the transparent substrate .

In the present experiment a microscope using a zoom lens VH Z75 manufactured by Keyence Corporation was used as the microscope . Further a camera FASTCAM MAX 120KC manufactured by Photron Limited was used as the high speed camera controlled by the personal computer . The microscope and the high speed camera are supported by a camera support. The camera support adjusts the focus of the microscope .

The behavior of the toner on the transparent substrate was photographed as follows. That is the position at which the behavior of the toner is observed was illuminated with light by the light source and the focus of the microscope was adjusted. Then a transfer bias was applied to the metal plate to move the toner in the toner layer adhering to the lower surface of the transparent substrate toward the recording medium . The behavior of the toner in this process was photographed by the high speed camera .

The structure of the transfer nip in which toner is transferred onto a recording medium is different between the observation experiment equipment illustrated in and the image forming apparatus of the illustrative embodiment. Therefore the transfer electric field acting on the toner is different therebetween even if the applied transfer bias is the same.

To find appropriate observation conditions transfer bias conditions allowing the observation experiment equipment to attain favorable density reproducibility on recessed portions of a surface of a recording medium were investigated. As the recording sheet a sheet of FC Japanese paper SAZANAMI manufactured by NBS Ricoh Company Ltd. was used. As the toner yellow Y toner having an average toner particle diameter of approximately 6.8 m mixed with a relatively small amount of black K toner was used.

The observation experiment equipment was configured to apply the transfer bias to a rear surface of the recording sheet i.e. SAZANAMI . Therefore in the observation experiment equipment the polarity of the transfer bias capable of transferring the toner onto the recording sheet was the opposite of the polarity of the transfer bias employed in the image forming apparatus according to the illustrative embodiment i.e. positive polarity . As the AC component of the transfer bias including a superimposed bias an AC component having a sinusoidal waveform was employed. A frequency f of the AC component was set to approximately 1 000 Hz.

Further the DC component was set to approximately 200 V and a peak to peak voltage Vpp was set to approximately 1 000 V. The toner layer was transferred onto the recording sheet with a toner adhesion amount in a range of from approximately 0.4 mg cmto approximately 0.5 mg cm. As a result a sufficient image density was successfully obtained on the recessed portions of the surface of the SAZANAMI paper sheet.

Under the above described conditions the behavior of the toner was photographed with the microscope focused on the toner layer on the transparent substrate and the following phenomenon was observed. That is the toner particles in the toner layer moved back and forth between the transparent substrate and the recording sheet due to an alternating electric field generated by the AC component of the transfer bias. With an increase in the number of the back and forth movements the amount of toner particles moving back and forth was increased.

More specifically in the transfer nip there was one back and forth movement of toner particles in every cycle 1 f of the AC component of the transfer bias due to a single action of the alternating electric field. In the first cycle only toner particles present on a surface of the toner layer separated from the toner layer as illustrated in . The toner particles then entered the recessed portions of the recording sheet and thereafter returned to the toner layer as illustrated in . In this process the returning toner particles collided with other toner particles remaining in the toner layer thereby reducing the adhesion of the other toner particles to the toner layer or to the transparent substrate .

In the next cycle therefore a larger amount of toner particles than in the last cycle separated from the toner layer as illustrated in . The toner particles then entered the recessed portions of the recording sheet and thereafter returned to the toner layer as illustrated in . In this process the returning toner particles collided with other toner particles remaining in the toner layer thereby reducing the adhesion of the other toner particles to the toner layer or to the transparent substrate .

In the next cycle therefore a larger amount of toner particles than in the last cycle separated from the toner layer as illustrated in . As described above the number of toner particles moving back and forth was gradually increased in every back and forth movement. After the lapse of a nip passage time for example a time corresponding to the actual nip passage time in the observation experiment equipment a sufficient amount of toner had been transferred to the recessed portions of the recording sheet .

Further the behavior of the toner was photographed under conditions with a DC voltage of approximately 200 V and the peak to peak voltage Vpp of approximately 800 V and the following phenomenon was observed. That is some of the toner particles in the toner layer present on the surface thereof separated from the toner layer in the first cycle and entered the recessed portions of the recording sheet . Subsequently however the toner particles in the recessed portions remained therein without returning to the toner layer .

In the next cycle a very small number of toner particles newly separated from the toner layer and entered the recessed portions of the recording sheet . After the lapse of the nip passage time therefore only a relatively small amount of toner particles had been transferred to the recessed portions of the recording sheet .

The present inventors conducted further experiments and found the following. That is a returning peak value Vr capable of causing the toner particles having separated from the toner layer and entered the recessed portions of the recording sheet to return to the toner layer in the first cycle depends on the toner adhesion amount per unit area on the transparent substrate . More specifically the larger the toner adhesion amount on the transparent substrate the larger the returning peak value Vr capable of causing the toner particles in the recessed portions in the recording sheet to return to the toner layer .

With reference to a description is provided of characteristic configurations of the image forming apparatus according to an illustrative embodiment. is a block diagram illustrating a part of an electrical circuit of the image forming apparatus shown in .

As illustrated in a controller constituting a part of the transfer bias generator includes a Central Processing Unit CPU serving as an operation device a Random Access Memory RAM serving as a nonvolatile memory a Read Only Memory ROM serving as a temporary storage device and a flash memory FM . The controller controlling the entire image forming apparatus is connected to a variety of devices and sensors. however illustrates only devices and sensors related to the characteristic configurations of the image forming apparatus.

Primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K supply a primary transfer bias to the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K. The secondary transfer bias power source outputs the secondary transfer bias to be applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller and constitutes a transfer bias output mechanism together with the controller .

The control panel includes a touch panel and a plurality of key buttons. The control panel displays an image on a screen of the touch panel and receives an instruction input by the user on the touch panel or the key buttons. The control panel is capable of showing an image on the touch panel on the basis of a control signal transmitted from the controller .

As described above according to the first illustrative embodiment the time T is longer than the time T where T is a transition time from a time at which the current for forming the transfer direction electric field reaches its maximum It to a time at which the current for forming the return direction electric field reaches its maximum Ir and T is a transition time from Ir to It.

The back and forth movement of toner enhances transferability of toner to a coarse surface of the recording medium. In order to move toner back and forth after the transfer direction electric field is formed the return direction electric field is formed. Ultimately the toner needs to be transferred onto the recording medium. Thus the time averaged electric current lave needs to be sufficiently large at the transfer direction side.

In view of the above the time T is longer than the time T so that the level of time averaged electric current Iave can be relatively high. Furthermore the transition from Ir to It is made relatively fast thereby forming a minimum required return direction electric field.

According to the first illustrative embodiment the ratio of transitional time from Ir to It to the entire transfer bias is referred to as a return ratio .

According to the second illustrative embodiment the time T during which the transfer direction current is applied is longer than the time T during which the return direction current is applied.

The back and forth movement of toner enhances transferability of toner to a coarse surface of the recording medium. In order to move toner back and forth after the transfer direction electric field is formed the return direction electric field needs to be formed. Ultimately the toner needs to be transferred onto the recording medium. Thus the time averaged electric current lave needs to be sufficiently large at the transfer direction side.

In view of the above the time T during which the transfer direction current is applied is longer than the time T during which the return direction current is applied. With this configuration the level of time averaged electric current Iave can be relatively high. Furthermore the transition from Ir to It is made relatively fast thereby forming the minimum required return direction electric field.

According to the second illustrative embodiment the ratio of time during which the current having a polarity opposite that of the transfer direction current is applied to the entire transfer bias is referred to as the return ratio .

Next a description is provided of printing experiments and characteristic configurations of the image forming apparatus according to the illustrative embodiments of the present invention. As can be understood from the waveforms of the transfer bias of the first illustrative embodiment and the transfer bias of the second illustrative embodiment can be the same. That is the conditions of the first and the second illustrative embodiments can be satisfied using a transfer bias having the same waveform. Therefore the following experiments are applicable to the first and the second illustrative embodiments.

A test machine having the same configurations as the image forming apparatus shown in was used for the following experiments. Various printing tests were performed using the test machine. The process linear velocity for the photosensitive drums and the intermediate transfer belt was 173 mm s. The frequency f of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias was 500 Hz. The transferability was evaluated using a textured paper called LEATHAC 66 a trade name manufactured by TOKUSHU PAPER MFG CO. LTD. having a ream weight of 175 Kg 788 1091 mm .

LEATHAC 66 was used as a recording medium P. The degree of roughness of the surface of LEATHAC 66 is greater than that of SAZANAMI . The maximum depth of the recessed portions of the surface of LEATHAC 66 was approximately 100 m. A solid blue image was formed by superimposing a solid magenta image and a solid cyan image one atop the other and then the solid blue image was output onto a sheet of LEATHAC 66 under different secondary bias conditions. The solid blue image on both the recessed portions and the projecting portions was evaluated with different levels of peak to peak voltage Vpp and offset voltage Vave comparative examples and the illustrative embodiments and graded as GOOD FAIR and POOR. The results are shown in . Here GOOD means that the result of an integrated evaluation in a fifth experiment described later was either A or B. FAIR means that the result of the integrated evaluation was either C or D. POOR means that the result of the integrated evaluation was E.

A function generator FG300 manufactured by Yokogawa Meters Instruments Corporation was used to generate waveforms which was then amplified by 1000 times by TREK Model 10 40 High Voltage Power Amplifier manufactured by TREK INC. The bias was then applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller .

The voltages and currents shown in the following examples were read through the outputs from the amplifier. Alternatively the voltages and currents applied to the transfer device may be monitored directly. In such a case as long as the conditions specified in an illustrative embodiment are met an absolute value of the voltages and the currents may change.

In a first comparative example a bias having a conventional sinusoidal wave was applied. The waveform is shown in . The return ratio was 50 . The results of the evaluation are shown in . In R refers to insufficient transfer of toner relative to the recessed portions of the surface of the sheet. P refers to insufficient transfer of toner relative to the projecting portions or flat portions of the surface of the sheet. White spots refer to dropouts or white spots generated on the surface. To understand the results at a glance in the following drawings a range in which the results were evaluated as FAIR or above is surrounded by broken lines.

In a second comparative example a bias having a square wave was applied. The waveform is shown in and the results of the evaluation are shown in . The return ratio was 50 .

In the first embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 45 .

In a second embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 40 .

In a third embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 32 .

In a fourth embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 16 .

In a fifth embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 8 .

In a sixth embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 4 .

In a seventh embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It but the waveform was rounded. The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 32 .

In an eighth embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It but the waveform was rounded. The waveform is shown in and the results are shown in . The return ratio was 16 .

In a ninth embodiment a bias was applied such that the time T from It to Ir was longer than the time T from Ir to It . The results are shown in . The return ratio was 20 .

In a second experiment the present inventors studied a minimum threshold time t at which toner having entered the recessed portions of the sheet surface was effectively returned to the secondary transfer nip. More specifically under the return ratio of 50 a frequency f of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias was changed and the image density of the solid blue image on the recessed portions was measured. shows a relation between an IDmax maximum image density of the recessed portions and the frequency f of the AC component obtained in the second experiment.

As understood in when the frequency f exceeds 15000 Hz the image density ID of the recessed portions drops sharply. This may be because the returning time during which an electric current forms the return direction electric field was too short to move the toner back and forth. The returning time at the frequency f 15000 Hz was 0.033 msec. Hence the minimum returning time is preferably set as approximately 0.03 msec.

In view of the above according to the first illustrative embodiment the bias current is output such that the time T during which the maximum current Ir that forms the return direction electric field to become the maximum current It that forms the transfer direction electric field is equal to or greater than 0.03 msec. Further according to the second illustrative embodiment the bias current is output such that the time T during which the return direction current is applied is equal to or greater than 0.03 msec.

In the third experiment the solid blue image was output with a peak to peak voltage Vpp of AC component of 2500 V an offset voltage Vave of 800 V and a returning time ratio of 20 . The frequency f of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias and the process linear velocity v were changed. The resulting output image was visually inspected. Unevenness of image density pitch unevenness caused possibly by an alternating electric field in the secondary transfer nip was evaluated.

Under the same frequency f the faster the process linear velocity V the more easily unevenness of image density occurred. Under the same process linear velocity v the lower the frequency f the more easily unevenness of image density occurred. These results indicate that unevenness of image density occurs unless the toner moves back and forth between the transfer belt and the recessed portions of the surface of the sheet for a number of times in the secondary transfer nip.

When the process linear velocity v was 282 mm s and the frequency f was 400 Hz no unevenness of image density was observed. However when the process linear velocity v was 282 mm s and the frequency f was 300 Hz unevenness of image density was observed. The width d of the secondary transfer nip in the direction of movement of the belt was approximately 3 mm. The number N of back and forth movement of toner in the secondary transfer nip in the above described condition is calculated as approximately 4 times 3 400 282 which is the minimum number of back and forth movement of toner that does not cause unevenness of image density.

When the process linear velocity v was 141 mm s and the frequency f was 200 Hz no unevenness of image density was observed. However when the process linear velocity v was 141 mm s and the frequency f was 100 Hz unevenness of image density was observed. Similar to the condition with the process linear velocity v of 282 mm s and the frequency f of 400 Hz the number N of back and forth movement of toner under the condition with the process linear velocity v of 141 mm s and the frequency f of 200 Hz is calculated as approximately 4 times 3 200 141 . Therefore by satisfying the following relation frequency f 4 d v is satisfied an image without unevenness of image density can be obtained.

In view of the above according to the illustrative embodiments of the present invention the secondary transfer power source of the image forming apparatus can output the AC component that satisfies frequency f 4 d v .

It is to be noted that in order to satisfy such a condition the image forming apparatus includes a communication device that obtains printer driver setting information transmitted from the control panel serving as an information retrieval mechanism and external devices such as a personal computer PC . Based on the obtained information the print mode is selected from the high speed mode the normal mode and the slow speed mode. Accordingly the process linear velocity v is determined.

In the secondary transfer nip toner is not transferred well onto the recording medium P unless a certain amount of transfer current flows through the recording medium P. As is obvious the transfer current does not flow well through a relatively thick recording medium as compared with a recording medium having a normal thickness. Of course it is desirable to transfer toner properly to embossed recording media sheets having a coarse surface such as Japanese paper known as Washi regardless of the thickness thereof. In view of this in a fourth experiment how to control the secondary transfer bias was studied.

In the fourth experiment as the secondary transfer power source a power source that outputs a peak to peak voltage Vpp having AC component and an offset voltage Vave both of which were subjected to constant voltage control was employed. The process linear velocity v was 282 mm s. As a recording medium P LEATHAC 66 a trade name having a ream weight of 175 kg was used and an A4 size solid black test image was formed thereon. The returning time ratio was 40 . The offset voltage Vave was in a range of from approximately 800 V to approximately 1800 V. The peak to peak voltage Vpp was in a range of from approximately 3 kV to 8 kV. The frequency f was 500 Hz.

The image density of the solid black image on the recessed portions of the sheet surface was graded on a five point scale of 1 to 5 where 5 is the highest grade.

Grade 4 The recessed portions were filled with toner mostly but a sheet portion was slightly seen in the recessed portions having a relatively large depth.

The image density of the solid black image on the projecting portions of the sheet surface was graded on a five point scale of 1 to 5 where 5 is the highest grade.

Grade 5 There was no unevenness of image density that is good image density was obtained throughout the image.

Grade 4 There was slight unevenness of image density but satisfying image density was obtained at the place at which the image density was relatively low.

Grade 3 There was unevenness of image density and the place at which the image density was low was below an acceptable level.

Subsequently the evaluation of the image density of the recessed portions and the evaluation of the image density of the projecting portions are integrated as follows.

Grade A The grades of image density of both recessed portions and projecting portions are Grade 5 or above.

Grade B The grades of image density of both recessed portions and projecting portions are Grade 4 or above.

Grade E The grades of image density of both recessed portions and projecting portions are Grade 3 or below.

Next the same experiment was performed except that LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 215 kg which is thicker than LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 175 kg was used. Combinations of the offset voltage Vave and the peak to peak voltage Vpp that achieved the integrated evaluations Grade A or Grade B on both LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 175 kg and LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 215 kg were extracted from the above described combinations of the offset voltage Vave and the peak to peak voltage Vpp.

As a result no combination obtained Grade A on both types of sheets. The combination that obtained Grade B on both types of sheets was a combination of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of 6 kV and the offset voltage Vave of 1100 100 V median 9 .

In a fifth experiment as the secondary transfer power source a power source that outputs a peak to peak voltage Vpp having an AC component and an offset voltage Vave both of which were subjected to constant current control was employed. The target value of the output offset current lave was set in a range of from 30 A to 60 A. Except for the conditions described above the same conditions employed in the fourth experiment were employed in the fifth experiment.

As a result the combination of the peak to peak voltage Vpp and the offset current Iave that achieved Grade A or above on both LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 175 kg and LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 215 kg was a combination of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of 7 kV and the offset current Iave of 42.5 7.5 A median 18 . The combination that achieved Grade B on both types of sheets was a combination of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of 7 kV and the offset current lave of 47.5 12.5 A median 26 .

As described above in the fourth experiment no combination achieved Grade A on both types of sheets. By contrast in the fifth experiment there was a combination that can achieve Grade A on both types of sheets. Furthermore for the combination that achieved Grade B the offset voltage Vave was 1100 100 V median 9 in the fourth experiment by contrast in the fifth experiment the peak to peak voltage Vpp was 7 kV and the offset current lave was 47.5 A 12.5 A median 26 . It is obvious that the latter has a wider range from the median value. These results of the experiments indicate that as compared with controlling the DC component under constant voltage control controlling the DC component under constant current control can provide a wider range of control target value that can accommodate different thicknesses of recording media sheets.

In view of the above according to the illustrative embodiments of the present invention the secondary transfer power source is configured to output a DC component under constant current control. Furthermore as for the AC component the secondary transfer power source outputs a constant current controlled peak to peak current. With this configuration the peak to peak current is constant regardless of environmental changes. Therefore an effective returning peak current and transfer peak current can be generated reliably.

According to the results of the experiments as described above as compared with the first and the second comparative examples a range of successful transfer of toner onto the recording medium having a coarse surface increases significantly in the first embodiment. With the increased range of successful transfer of toner sufficient image density can be achieved in both recessed and projecting portions of the surface of a recording medium even when parameters of sheet types image patterns environmental conditions and so forth change while preventing image defects such as dropouts and white spots. Accordingly a good output image can be obtained.

Furthermore according to the illustrative embodiments it is not necessary to always monitor the voltage because the level of the transfer peak value Vt does not become too high hence allowing simplification of the configurations and control.

By outputting the bias current such that the ratio of the time T or the time T to the entire transfer bias is equal to or greater than 4 and equal to or less than 45 the return ratio is prevented from getting too small thereby maintaining reliably a certain range of successful transfer of toner.

Furthermore with the ratio of the time T or the time T to the entire transfer bias being equal to or greater than 8 and equal to or less than 40 even wider range of successful transfer of toner can be attained.

Still further with the ratio of the time T or the time T to the entire transfer bias being equal to or greater than 8 and equal to or less than 20 the range of successful transfer of toner can be attained more reliably.

By outputting the bias current such that the time T or the time T is 0.03 msec or more a sufficient amount of returning time during which an electric current forms the return direction electric field is secured thereby preventing degradation of transferability in the recessed portions of the recording medium.

Referring now to there is provided a schematic diagram illustrating the developing device employed in the image forming apparatus shown in . The developing devices K C M and Y all have the same configuration differing only in the color of toner employed. Thus a description is provided of the developing device K as a representative example of the developing devices.

As illustrated in the developing device K includes a developing section including a developing roller K and a developer conveyer K. The developer conveyer K mixes a black color developing agent and feeds the developing agent to the developing roller K. The developer conveyer K includes a first chamber equipped with a first screw K and a second chamber equipped with a second screw K. The first screw K and the second screw K are each constituted of a rotatable shaft and helical flighting wrapped around the circumferential surface of the shaft. Each end of the shaft of the first screw K and the second screw K in the axial direction is rotatably held by shaft bearings.

The first chamber with the first screw K and the second chamber with the second screw K are separated by a wall but each end of the wall in the direction of the screw shaft has a connecting hole through which the first chamber and the second chamber are connected. The first screw K mixes the developing agent by rotating the helical flighting and carries the developing agent from the distal end to the proximal end of the screw in the direction perpendicular to the surface of the recording medium while rotating. The first screw K is disposed parallel to and facing the developing roller K. Hence the developing agent is delivered along the axial shaft direction of the developing roller K. The first screw K supplies the developing agent to the surface of the developing roller K along the direction of the shaft line of the developing roller K.

The developing agent transported near the proximal end of the first screw passes through the connecting hole in the wall near the proximal side and enters the second chamber. Subsequently the developing agent is carried by the helical flighting of the second screw K. As the second screw K rotates the developing agent is delivered from the proximal end to the distal end in the drawing while being mixed in the direction of rotation.

In the second chamber a toner density detector for detecting the density of toner in the developing agent is disposed at the bottom of a casing of the chamber. As the toner density detector a magnetic permeability detector is employed. There is a correlation between the toner density and the magnetic permeability of the developing agent consisting of toner and a magnetic carrier. Therefore the magnetic permeability detector can detect the density of the toner.

Although not illustrated the image forming apparatus includes toner supply devices to supply independently toner of yellow magenta cyan and black to the second chamber of the respective developing device . The controller of the image forming apparatus includes the Random Access Memory RAM to store a target output voltage Vtref for output voltages provided by the toner density detectors for yellow magenta cyan and black. If the difference between the output voltages provided by the toner detectors for yellow magenta cyan and black and Vtref for each color exceeds a predetermined value the toner supply devices are driven for a predetermined time period corresponding to the difference to supply toner. Accordingly the respective color of toner is supplied to the second chamber of the developing device .

The developing roller K in the developing section K faces the first screw K as well as the photosensitive drum K through an opening formed in the casing of the developing device K. The developing roller K comprises a cylindrical developing sleeve made of a non magnetic pipe which is rotated and a magnetic roller disposed inside the developing sleeve. The magnetic roller is fixed to prevent the magnetic roller from rotating together with the developing sleeve. The developing agent supplied from the first screw K is carried on the surface of the developing sleeve due to the magnetic force of the magnetic roller. As the developing sleeve rotates the developing agent is transported to a developing area facing the photosensitive drum K.

The developing sleeve is supplied with a developing bias having the same polarity as toner. The developing bias is greater than the bias of the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum K but less than the charging potential of the uniformly charged photosensitive drum K. With this configuration a developing potential that causes the toner on the developing sleeve to move electrostatically to the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum K acts between the developing sleeve and the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum K.

A non developing potential acts between the developing sleeve and the non image formation areas of the photosensitive drum K causing the toner on the developing sleeve to move to the sleeve surface. Due to the developing potential and the non developing potential the toner on the developing sleeve moves selectively to the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum K thereby forming a visible image known as a toner image.

Similar to the image forming unit K in the image forming units Y M and C toner images of yellow magenta and cyan are formed on the photosensitive drums Y M and C respectively.

With reference to a description is now provided of variations of the configuration of the transfer portion. The same effect as that of the foregoing embodiments can be achieved with the following variations.

It is to be noted that the photosensitive drum is not limited to a drum. A belt type photosensitive member may be employed. The transfer bias roller may include a foam layer elastic layer or a surface layer coated with elastic material such as foam.

In the transfer bias is applied to the transfer rollers provided to each of the photosensitive drums . Each of the transfer rollers is connected to a high voltage power source. Alternatively all the transfer rollers may be connected to a single high voltage power source. Instead of the transfer roller a brush type bias application device may be employed. Alternatively both the transfer roller and a bias application brush may be employed. When employing the bias application brush the bias application brush may be disposed at the same place as in the second variation shown in . The transfer roller may include a foam layer elastic layer or a surface layer coated with elastic material such as foam.

According to the present embodiment a first roller disposed inside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt may serve as a bias application roller to which a bias having a polarity opposite that of the charged toner normal charging polarity is applied. This is known as a repulsive force transfer method. Alternatively a second roller disposed opposite the first roller via the secondary transfer conveyance belt may serve as a bias application roller to which a bias having the same polarity as the toner normal charging polarity is applied. This is known as an attraction transfer method.

Furthermore similar to the second variation shown in the transfer bias roller and or the bias application brush may be disposed inside the loop formed by the secondary transfer conveyance belt and the transfer bias is applied to the transfer bias roller and or the bias application brush. In this case the transfer bias roller and or the bias application brush may be disposed at the same place as the second variation shown in . The transfer roller transfer bias roller may include a foam layer elastic layer or a surface layer coated with elastic material such as foam. Alternatively a transfer charger may be employed.

Application of the secondary transfer bias is not limited to the configuration illustrated in . With reference to a description is provided of variations of application of the secondary transfer bias.

As described above there is a variety of ways in which the secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer nip N. Thus depending on the secondary transfer bias application a proper power source may be selected. For example a power source such as the power source capable of supplying the combination of the DC voltage and the AC voltage may be employed. Alternatively the power source capable of supplying the DC voltage and the AC voltage independently may be employed. Still alternatively a single power source capable of switching application of the bias between the combination of the DC voltage and the AC voltage and the DC voltage may be employed.

The power source for the secondary transfer bias includes a first mode in which the power source outputs only the DC voltage and a second mode in which the power source outputs a superimposed voltage including the AC voltage superimposed on the DC voltage. The first mode and the second mode are switchable.

According to the illustrative embodiments shown in and the first mode and the second mode can be switched by turning on and off the output of the AC voltage.

According to the illustrative embodiments shown in a plurality of power sources here two power sources is employed and switched by a switching device such as a relay. By switching between the two power sources the first mode and the second mode may be selectively switched.

With reference to a description is provided of another example of the power source. is a block diagram illustrating another example of the power source unit. In the power source unit includes an AC power source and a DC power source . The AC power source includes a bypass capacitor . A relay is provided between the bypass capacitor and the ground. This configuration provides the DC component with a fast rise time.

The configuration of the transfer portion is not limited to the configurations described above. The nip forming roller may be substituted by a belt member. The waveform of the transfer bias is not limited to the waveforms described above and any other waveforms may be employed within the scope of the disclosure.

The configuration of the image forming apparatus is not limited to the configurations described above. The order of image forming units arranged in tandem is not limited to the above described order.

The present invention may be applied to an image forming apparatus using toners in three different colors or less. For example the present invention may be applied to a multi color image forming apparatus using two colors of toner and a monochrome image forming apparatus.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the present invention is employed in the image forming apparatus. The image forming apparatus includes but is not limited to a copier a printer a facsimile machine and a multi functional system.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the present invention is employed in the image forming apparatus. The image forming apparatus includes but is not limited to an electrophotographic image forming apparatus a copier a printer a facsimile machine and a digital multi functional system.

Furthermore it is to be understood that elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims. In addition the number of constituent elements locations shapes and so forth of the constituent elements are not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such exemplary variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

