---

title: Method to monitor and control weld penetration in gas tungsten welding and full-position pipe welding
abstract: The invention discloses a method to determine the weld joint penetration from arc voltage measurements in gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW). It is based on an observation on the dynamic weld pool surface in GTAW—the surface tends to first expand toward the electrode and then be pushed away from the electrode after full penetration is established. For the pool surface in GTAW, localized partial keyholes around the arc axis as in plasma arc welding are not significant. The pool surface is relatively smooth. The arc voltage that reflects changes in the arc length thus first tends to reduce and then increases after full penetration is established. This invention thus tracks the arc voltage until the decrease slope becomes insignificant. Once full penetration is established, the current is reduced to decrease the weld penetration or first decrease the penetration growth for a certain period and then decrease the weld penetration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604301&OS=09604301&RS=09604301
owner: 
number: 09604301
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121113
---
The present invention was made with government support under contract number N00024 08 C 4111 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Government support also includes matching fund from the Commonwealth of Kentucky KSTC 184 512 08 048 .

The present invention relates in general to monitoring techniques for the Gas Tungsten Arc Welding process and more particularly to detecting whether the work piece has been fully penetrated.

Gas tungsten arc welding GTAW has become an indispensable tool for many industries because of the high quality welds produced and low equipment costs 1 . Mechanized automated systems rely on precision control of joint fit up and welding conditions to use the pre programmed welding parameters to produce repeatable results. However precision control of joints and welding conditions is very costly and not always guaranteed. Up to date there are no satisfactory sensors approaches that can be conveniently carried by the torch to automatically monitor the penetration depth how far the liquid metal penetrates along the thickness of the base metal or the degree of the full penetration like a skilled welder.

The difficulty is primarily due to the invisibility of the liquid metal bottom surface underneath the weld pool and the extreme brightness of the arc and various methods have been studied including pool oscillation ultrasound infrared sensor etc. The pioneering work in pool oscillation was conducted by Kotecki 2 Richardson 3 Hardt 4 and their co workers. Den Ouden found an abrupt change in the oscillation frequency of the pool during the transition from partial to full penetration 5 6 . At Georgia Institute of Technology Ume leads the development of non contact ultrasonic penetration sensors based on laser phased array techniques 7 8 . Because the temperature distribution in the weld zone contains abundant information about the welding process infrared sensing of welding processes has been explored by Chin at Auburn University 9 12 . The penetration depth has been correlated with the infrared characteristics of the infrared image. At MIT Hardt used an infrared camera to view the temperature field from the back side 13 . The penetration depth was precisely estimated from the measured temperature distribution and then controlled 14 . Because of the difficulty of the problem and the urgency for solution researchers around the world have continued the explorations 15 19 .

Zhang found that the average sag depression of the solidified weld bead has a good linear correlation with the back side bead width 20 21 . A structured light vision sensor and image processing algorithm were thus developed to measure the sag geometry in GTAW. By modeling the arc welding process an adaptive control system has been completed to achieve the desired back side bead width 22 . Recently the University of Kentucky developed an innovative method to measure the 3D geometry of the weld pool surface for both GTAW and gas metal arc welding GMAW 22 23 . It projects a low power laser pattern onto the mirror specular surface of the weld pool. The laser pattern reflected from the weld pool surface remains the laser intensity when travelling from the arc and weld pool but the arc radiation loses its intensity. The reflected laser and arc radiation can thus be intercepted and be imaged on the interception plane. Because the arc radiation reduces as the travel distance increases the reflected laser pattern signal can be clearly distinguished from the arc radiation background . The 3D weld pool surface that reflects the laser pattern can then be computed from the measured laser reflection pattern and its known incident pattern based on the law of reflection. A vision system may thus be developed to emulate a skilled welder to observe and control the weld joint penetration. However easily measurable arc signals arc voltage and arc current may be more durable and cost effective and thus more suitable for industrial applications.

Possible relationship between weld joint penetration and arc signals has been extensively studied at the University of Kentucky Welding Research Lab 24 27 . Successful monitoring and control over the weld joint penetration have been achieved for plasma arc welding PAW process. Since PAW is an extension of GTAW process with a constrained arc for higher energy and heat density it is ideal if the method for PAW process control can be extended to GTAW. Unfortunately the inventors of this invention found that for the unconstrained free arc in GTAW the arc voltage does not increase as the weld penetration increases as in PAW and as one may expect. Instead the arc voltage decreases first as the weld penetration increases. It increases only after the full penetration is sufficiently established. An innovative arc signal based weld penetration monitoring and control method is thus invented based on this characteristic of the arc voltage change as the weld pool surface develops in GTAW and is used to solve the weld penetration control issue in GTAW pipe welding.

Hence the objective of this invention is to provide an easily implementable method to monitor the establishment of the full penetration from the partial penetration on the work piece and then use this information to adjust the welding parameters in real time to assure that the desired full penetration weld be produced without burn through in gas tungsten arc welding.

When the work piece is melted by an arc from the front side the metal melted from the work piece forms a liquid weld pool that grows from the front side toward the back side gradually in the depth direction. That is the work piece becomes melted from the front side toward the back side. To produce a full penetration weld the work piece must be fully melted in the depth direction such that the back side surface of the work piece changes from solid to liquid.

An easily implementable method for practical application to monitor the establishment of the full penetration back side surface becomes liquid from the partial penetration back side surface is still solid un melted first must be able to sense the change in the back side surface from the front side without placing a sensor from the back side which cannot be easily carried together with the torch. To be accurate it must be based on the inherent fundamental change that is detectable from the front side but is caused by the change in the back side from solid to liquid .

When the metal on the work piece is heated to melt the temperature is much increased. The volume of the melted metal is much increased from its original volume when being solid. Since the free liquid metal in the weld pool is constrained in all directions except for the front face direction by the solid metal around it in the work piece the increased volume can only freely extend in the front surface direction. The surface of the weld pool thus must elevate toward the tungsten electrode in the front side direction. However after the back side surface is melted the constraint condition is changed. The liquid metal in the weld pool may also extend beyond the back side surface especially under the pressure from the arc. As a result part of the increased volume will not extend toward the electrode. This is the inherent change that can lead to an accurate method to detect the change in the back side surface from the front side surface.

An easily implementable method for practical application especially for manual welding also requires the sensor to be able to be carried by a man. Preferably there should be any complex installation and calibration needed. To this end the present invention detects the change in the surface elevation by monitoring the arc length which is the distance between the weld pool surface to the electrode. This is an easily implementable method because the change trend in the arc length can be easily measured by the change trend in the arc voltage without any added sensor and any calibration. Such characteristics without added sensor the arc voltage can be directly measured without any added sensor for the welder or robot to carry and without any calibration are also desirable for mechanized and robotic automatic systems.

Of course there is a condition needed in order for the arc length change to reflect the change in the surface elevation the electrode needs to be stationary. When the electrode is stationary the change in the distance between the surface and the electrode is only determined by the change in the surface elevation. Hence the method in the present invention includes ways to maintain the electrode to stay stationary during the detection without interference on the ability of the arc length change to reflect the surface elevation change and ways to count for the effect of electrode movement and other factor particularly filler metal addition on the ability to reflect the surface elevation change.

There is another condition needed in order for the arc length change to reflect the change in the surface elevation the electrode must be non consumable. In the gas tungsten arc welding this is assured by the use of the non consumable tungsten electrode already. However for gas metal arc welding GMAW the electrode is a continuously fed wire which is consumable. The consumable nature of the wire introduces a variation in the position of the electrode in relation to the work piece. Further the transfer of the melted wire into the weld pool affects the ability of the surface elevation to reflect the change in the increased volume. The prevent invention is thus a method that is specially designed according to the fundamental characteristics in the gas tungsten arc welding process. Fortunately for the precision joining where accurate control of the weld penetration is needed the gas tungsten arc welding is the primary process rather than the gas metal arc welding.

In conclusion the present invention provides a method to use the front side surface elevation change to detect the change in the back side surface to construct the conditions to assure the change in the arc length to reflect the change in the surface elevation and to determine adjust the welding parameters to generate the surface elevation change and control the process accordingly to assure the full penetration without burn through melted metal be detached from the work piece that causes a discontinuity rather than a weld. Since the needed arc length signal is easily measured by the arc voltage the present invention requires no added sensors.

In keyhole PAW as more metal is melted the depth of the localized partial keyhole increases such that the arc length and arc voltage increase 24 . Unfortunately in GTAW such positive correlation between the arc voltage and weld penetration is not observed as the authors originally expected. Analysis suggests that the free arc in GTAW does not severely deform the weld pool surface to form a significant localized cavity similarly as a constrained plasma arc. Instead as more metal is melted the increase in the volume elevates the weld pool surface toward the electrode such that the arc length and arc voltage are decreased. The weld pool and weld pool surface thus experience a dynamic development as illustrated in for GTAW.

The dynamic development of the weld pool in GTAW is divided into two stages by the arc voltage length minimum that is caused by the establishment of the full penetration. In Stage the increased volume due to metal melting reduces the distance from the Weld pool surface to the electrode in Stage the liquid metal is pushed by the arc through the bottom surface and the ability of the arc to push increases as the bottom width of the weld pool increases.

More specifically when the base metal is melted its volume increases due to thermal expansion. The increased volume v increases as the melted metal volume v increases. Before the bottom surface of the base metal is melted i.e. before the full penetration is established the increased volume v is placed as an elevation of weld pool surface above the original base metal surface. The elevation of the front weld pool volume beyond the original surface e equals v and thus increases as the melted metal increases and the weld penetration depth increases. Because of the free arc in GTAW the arc length and arc voltage are expected to decrease. This is different from keyhole PAW where a significant cavity localized partial keyhole exists such that the arc length increases as the cavity depth increases and the bottom of the cavity is close to the bottom of the liquid metal pool. After the full penetration is established part of the liquid metal is pushed by the arc beyond the original bottom surface of the base metal to form an elevation of the bottom weld pool surface. Denote the volume of this part of liquid metal as e. As a result e v e.

Before the full penetration is established e 0. Hence this equation also holds before the full penetration is established.

Before the full penetration is established e v. Since v increases as the penetration increases ealso increases with the penetration. Because the arc length is defined approximately as the average length from the electrode to the weld pool surface in the arc region the arc length and its measurement arc voltage decrease as vincreases. After the full penetration is established e 0 such that ed e dt estill increases as v increases but will be at a reduced rate. The arc voltage will thus reduce at a reduced rate. However as the penetration increases such that the width of the bottom weld pool surface increases d v dt

The above discussion and analysis on the dynamic development of weld pool can be illustrated using . As can be seen the full penetration is established first at t tand the minimum arc length is realized at t twhen the change from d v dt d e dt to d v dt

In GTAW the arc voltage V can be considered proportional to the arc length L with certain accuracy and linearity. Assume the GTAW torch has a constant standoff distance from pipe surface which is common in welding practice. By measurement of arc voltage signal V the arc length L or distance from tungsten electrode to weld pool surface can be determined with certain accuracy. The arc length minimum L can thus be detected as the voltage minimum.

Based on the analysis of the dynamic development of weld pool in GTAW the present method of this invention for monitoring and controlling the weld penetration is to detect the slope of arc voltage signal i.e. dV t dt during the peak period and adjust the welding current accordingly to control the weld joint penetration. A logic way to control the weld joint penetration is to switch the current from the peak current to the base current when the slope is changed from negative to positive at t tas in . However this slope sign change only occurs after the full penetration is established. If an excessive peak current is used to establish the weld penetration the time period from full penetration establishment to this slope sign change i.e. t t may be short. In such case if the instant t tis not accurately detected resulting in a significant delay switching the current from this excessive peak amperage to the base current amperage with such a significant delay may cause burn through or excessive penetration. Since the weld pool surface and arc voltage fluctuate such a delay is typically unavoidable. Hence a better way to control the weld penetration is to first reduce the current from the peak amperage to a lower second peak current amperage after the amplitude of the negative slope of the arc voltage falls below a threshold at t t . The reduced second peak current would allow the penetration to grow at a reduced speed. The required accuracy and speed for the slope analysis can thus be reduced. However if the application does not require an excessive peak current the current can be directly changed to the base current . The second peak current can thus be optional.

In summary the method in this invention uses three current levels the peak current that is used to rapidly establish the penetration is referred to as the peak current or the first peak current the second peak level current during which the penetration increase speed is reduced is referred to as the second peak the current that follows the second peak is still referred to as the base current in the convention. The second peak period is optional and can better help the weld penetration control accuracy especially when the peak current is excessive. The slope of the voltage signal is measured and analyzed during the first peak period and the current is switched to the second peak or base current after dV t dt falls below the threshold . The threshold can be set 0 with 0 to detect tand 0 to detect t. Further a negative with a small amplitude may be used to achieve even greater penetration.

In implementation the slope is calculated from discrete time voltage measurement V k in the present control period T k and voltage measurements V k 1 . . . V 1 in the previous control periods T k 1 . . . T 1 . In each control period the voltage is sampled N times at sampling period T. The control period is thus N T and V j v i N j 1 . . . k is the average of the voltages v i 1 1 . . . N measured in all sampling periods. If V k is judged as the vertex based on analysis of voltage measurements V k . . . V 1 the current is reduced from its peak level to an optional second peak level or directly to the base level . The heat input associated with this lower peak level is greater than the heat dissipated and this optional second peak thus will continue to increase the weld penetration to the desired level. However because of the reduced current the arc pressure will be reduced such that the possibility to burn through is reduced. The penetration increasing speed after the full penetration is established at t t is thus slower than that before the full penetration is established. This reduced speed helps for better control of the weld penetration. After the desired penetration is achieved the current is reduced to the base level . The heat input associated with the base current is much lower than the heat dissipated. The weld pool thus gradually freezes during the base current period .

The control period T should be determined based on the arc fluctuation frequency and the accuracy requirement for the weld penetration monitoring and control. The control period should be much greater than the fluctuation frequency of the arc voltage. However if the control period is too long the resolution of the weld penetration control deteriorates. A desirable way to determine the control period is to use a given control period and apply the first peak current for k control periods. Keep all other parameters constant appropriate and change k. The weld penetration change with k can be examined. If the desired penetration can be achieved with a specific k and the weld penetration achieved with k 1 and k 1 both acceptable this control period should be an acceptable control period. Otherwise the control period can be reduced to determine if it may be acceptable. The inventors found that for GTAW 100 ms is an acceptable control period although the control period may be chosen in a wider range.

The sampling period T is less critical and should be determined based on the computation capability of the control system. N should be sufficient to calculate V j v i N. When the control period is 100 ms 1 ms is an acceptable sampling period although the sampling period may be chosen in a much greater range.

To determine the slope from V k . . . V 1 a model can be fit and be used to determine if the voltage vertex has been reached. Once the vertex is reached the current is reduced to the lower peak . The lower peak stays for a given time interval pre specified before it is reduced to the base current to start the next pulse cycle. illustrates the method invented.

Step b Output the base welding current I for a base period of T. The relatively lower heat allows the weld pool to cool down and prepare for the peak period .

Step c Output the peak welding current I for a minimum peak period T. This minimum peak period is applied in order for the arc voltage to pass the initial transient period when the current is changed.

Step d Continue to apply the peak welding current I. The controller samples the arc voltage signal at the pre specified sampling period T for example 1 ms for N for example N 100 times. The average V k is calculated. V k . . . V 1 are fitted by a second order parabola. The slope first order derivative of the parabola at k indicates the change tendency of the arc voltage.

Step f If PE break 0 the vertex is not reached until the maximum peak period jump to step b. For PE break 1 if the application of the optional second peak is enabled apply the second peak current Ifor T and then jump to step b if not enabled directly jump to step b. If the welder requires to stop the process either a problem occurs or the weld joint is completed welded jump to step g.

The voltage measurements V k . . . V 1 may be fit using a first second or third order model. The second order parabola fitting model was found to produce acceptable accuracy at moderate computation cost for real time analysis of the vertex. The second order model can be written as 1 2 . . . 1 where and are the model parameters to be fit. Denote

Using the least square algorithm 29 the coefficient of model 1 can be estimated by circumflex over 3 where circumflex over circumflex over circumflex over circumflex over is the estimated model parameters. The slope or first order derivative at the present time k is circumflex over circumflex over 4 where V k is defined as dV t dt at t kT. To determine the slope only two coefficients need to be estimated. If the number of sampling points k is fixed for all curve fitting the matrix of can be calculated in an off line manner before implementing into the embedded control system. To obtain the two coefficients k 2 multiplication and k 1 2 addition operations are needed. To this end the most recent k voltage measurements are used and they are or ordered as V k . . . V 1 .

In order to further reduce the computation load for implementation in an embedded system the most recent k measurements can be arranged as V 0 . . . V k 2 V k 1 and the model can be written as 1 2 . . . 0 1A 

As a result only one model coefficient needs to be estimated. The calculation load is then reduced to only k multiplication and k 1 addition operations.

The welding torch can travel in a continuous mode or stepwise mode. In both modes the optional arc length control and optional filler wire addition are implemented during the base period and or the optional second peak period. When the voltage is measured to perform the model fitting and vertex analysis the arc length control and wire filler addition that may affect the analysis accuracy are not implemented.

The stepwise mode torch motion is preferred. If the continuous travel model is used the work to tungsten distance during the first peak current period must be minimized or the distance slope is added as additional information to analyze the vertex.

Further the torch travel can be manual or mechanized automated. The filler wire addition can be manual or mechanized automated.

When the welding position changes during pipe welding at the fixed position i.e. the torch turns around the pipe such that angle of its axis with the gravitation axis from zero to 180 degree and then back to zero the gravitational force acting on the weld pool changes. However if the bottom surface of the work piece surface is not melted i.e. if the full penetration is not established weld pool metal can still only elevate toward the tungsten. The negative dV t dt is still observed before the full penetration is established at t t. After the full penetration is established the arc pressure may push the liquid metal in the weld pool beyond the bottom surface such that the amplitude of dV t dt reduces after t tespecially after t t. Hence dV t dt

At the bottom position of the pipe the gravitational force of the liquid metal in the weld pool must be overcome by the arc pressure in order to effectively push the liquid metal beyond the bottom surface. Because the mass and gravitational force of the weld pool metal increases faster than the wall thickness of the pipe increases positive dV t dt may never be realized at the bottom position when welding thick wall pipes achieved. Hence may be increased when the torch travels from 12 o clock to 6 o clock and decreased when the torch travels from 6 o clock to 12 o clock for thick wall pipes. The change of may be experimentally determined. For 3.2 mm wall thickness stainless steel pipe it was found 0 is applicable for all the positions 28 .

The core of the control system is the embedded controller powered by a BL5S220 single board computer SBC from Digi International. The SBC is capable of executing the monitoring and control algorithm to be proposed and detailed later stored in its flash memory. A set of isolation amplifiers from Dataforth are used to isolate the low voltage control circuit from the welding process. The isolation amplifier modules also provide hardware low pass filtering to the welding signals from to the welding process. The arc voltage signal is measured from welding process while welding current control command signal is sent back to welding process by the control system. A Miller Dynasty welding power supply is used as a current source. A HW 20 GTAW torch from ESAB is mounted on an orbital pipe welding platform to conduct automatic pipe welding or held by welders for manual operations. Pure Argon is used for shielding and purging.

