---

title: Retail system for selling products based on a flexible product description
abstract: According to one described embodiment, a method is provided in which transaction information is determined. The transaction information is associated with (i) a buyer who has arranged to purchase a product from a central controller at a first price established between the buyer and the central controller and (ii) a merchant that offers the product for sale at a second price, different from the first price, without offering the product for sale to buyers at the first price. Information is transmitted that facilitates the acquisition of the product by the buyer, in exchange for payment provided by the buyer to the central controller. An amount based on the second price is provided to the merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799100&OS=08799100&RS=08799100
owner: Groupon, Inc.
number: 08799100
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 437 706 filed Apr. 2 2012 entitled Retail System For Selling Products Based On A Flexible Product Description which a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 746 714 filed May 10 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 735 entitled Retail System For Selling Products Based On A Flexible Description which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 540 035 filed Mar. 31 2000 entitled Retail System For Selling Products Based On A Flexible Description issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 711 604 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 165 435 filed Nov. 15 1999 entitled Uniseller Internet Pricing .

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 540 035 is also a continuation in part for each of the following U.S. patent applications 

 i U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 889 503 filed Jul. 8 1997 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 249 772 on Jun. 19 2001 entitled Systems and Methods Wherein a Buyer Purchases a Product at a First Price and Acquires the Product from a Merchant that Offers the Product for Sale at a Second Price 

 ii U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 997 170 filed Dec. 22 1997 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 356 878 on Mar. 12 2002 entitled Conditional Purchase Offer Buyer Agency System 

 iii U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 220 191 filed Dec. 23 1998 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 386 508 on Jun. 10 2008 entitled Method and Apparatus for Facilitating a Transaction Between a Buyer and One Seller 

 iv U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 337 906 filed Jun. 22 1999 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 754 636 on Jun. 22 2004 entitled Purchasing Systems and Methods Wherein a Buyer Takes Possession at a Retailer of a Product Purchased Using a Communication Network 

 v U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 359 265 filed Jul. 22 1999 entitled System and Method for Facilitating and Managing the Sale of Customized Travel Product Restrictions and

 vi U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 388 723 filed Sep. 2 1999 and now abandoned entitled Purchasing Systems and Methods Wherein a Buyer Takes Possession at a Retailer of a Product Purchased Using a Communication Network .

Each of the above referenced applications including U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 437 706 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 746 714 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 735 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 540 035 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 711 604 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 165 435 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 889 503 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 249 772 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 997 170 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 356 878 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 220 191 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 386 508 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 337 906 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 754 636 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 359 265 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 388 723 is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to systems for selling products to customers. More specifically the present invention relates to a system for selling a product to a customer based on a flexible product description provided by the customer.

According to conventional retail pricing systems a particular product is offered to all potential customers for a single price. Therefore a conventional retailer endeavors to determine an optimal single price for a product that will generate more profit than any other single price.

Shortcomings exist even if a conventional retailer succeeds in determining an optimal price. Specifically profit generated by sales at an optimal price will likely be less than a theoretical maximum profit because some customers will be willing to pay more than the optimal price for the product. In this regard the theoretical maximum profit is a profit resulting from charging each customer a maximum price he is willing to pay. Profit may also fall short of the theoretical maximum because no profit will be obtained from potential customers who are willing to pay more than the retailer s cost for the product but are unwilling to pay the optimal price. Due to these and other shortcomings retailers have experimented with alternative pricing systems intended to generate a profit closer to the theoretical maximum.

Individualized bargaining is one such alternative system. In individualized bargaining a retailer or a retailer s agent individually negotiates with each potential customer in an attempt to extract a highest price from each customer. However associated transaction costs incurred by the retailer increase in proportion to the number of transactions. Accordingly individualized bargaining is not desirable for retailers having more than a few customers since the associated transaction costs would outweigh any resulting increase in profit from sales.

In view of the foregoing what is needed is a pricing system for increasing a retailer s profit without incurring unacceptable transaction costs.

Improvements are also needed in other types of conventional pricing systems. For instance conventional systems for discounting prices create several problems for retailers. According to these conventional systems a retailer reduces a price of a product from an original price to a lower discounted price to achieve some goal such as reducing excess inventory of the product.

As described above with respect to retail pricing some customers who buy the product for the discounted price may have been willing to buy the product for a higher price and the retailer therefore loses potential profit. Individualized bargaining as also described above can be used to reduce these effects. However in a vast majority of situations individualized bargaining involves unacceptable transaction costs. Individualized bargaining also fails to address other problems caused by conventional discount pricing systems such as price dilution and brand dilution.

Generally price dilution describes a situation in which a reduction of a product s price decreases demand for the product at a higher price. In more detail discounting a price of a product causes potential customers to believe that the discounted price is the correct price of the product and therefore the customers become unwilling to accept any higher price for the product. Accordingly conventional discount pricing systems can negatively affect future profits generated by a product.

Conventional discount pricing systems can also lead to brand dilution. Brand dilution refers to a reduction in the prestige of a brand in the minds of consumers. In this regard conventional publicized price discounts for a product of a particular brand tend to reduce the amount of prestige that consumers attribute to the brand. Since brand prestige or goodwill is a valuable asset vigorously protected by successful manufacturers e.g. via trademark protection these manufacturers are reluctant to allow retailers to discount prices for their products or to advertise the discounted prices. As a result it is difficult for retailers to reduce excess inventory of these products.

Certain industries have attempted to address the foregoing deficiencies in conventional pricing systems. For example the airline industry attempts to set prices for airline tickets based on speculated demand of individual customers. In this regard each customer is categorized as a leisure traveler or a business traveler based on when a ticket is purchased. For example a customer who buys a ticket for a flight more than twenty one days before the flight is categorized as a leisure traveler and a customer who buys a ticket less than twenty one days before the flight is categorized as a business traveler. Tickets for the flights are priced according to the categorization lower prices for leisure travelers and higher prices for business travelers.

In view of the foregoing two customers who submit identical itineraries to a travel agent may pay vastly different prices for tickets to identical flights if the tickets are bought at different times. Such a result is perceived as unfair by customers. Moreover a business traveler who purchases a ticket to a flight more than twenty one days before a flight is categorized as a leisure traveler and therefore pays much less than she is willing to pay resulting in lost revenue to the airline providing the flight. Accordingly airline pricing fails to adequately address the deficiencies in conventional pricing systems.

Accordingly what is also needed is a system for discounting prices which reduces price dilution and brand dilution and which is perceived as fair to customers.

In consideration of the above needs Applicants have discovered that customer demand for a product can be approximately quantified based on a customer s specification of desired product values. Applicants have also discovered that retailers are willing to reduce prices in return for customer flexibility in sale terms. In addition Applicants have invented a system to use these discoveries to efficiently charge different prices to different customers in order to optimize profits while being fair to customers and to discount prices while minimizing losses price dilution brand dilution and perceived unfairness.

The present invention addresses the foregoing by providing in one aspect a system in which a sale price is determined based on a product description and the sale price is transmitted to a customer. In addition no specific product is identified to the customer as a particular product that will be sold to the customer before an agreement to purchase a product for the sale price is received from the customer. Accordingly the customer is not guaranteed what specific product will be purchased before an agreement to purchase a product for the sale price is received from the customer.

It should be understood that the customer will agree to the purchase if the customer is willing to accept in return for the sale price any product conforming to the product description. Both the customer and retailer benefit as a result of the foregoing system. The customer can receive lower prices in exchange for flexible description parameters and may also receive discounts that would normally not be advertised to the general public for fear of price and brand dilution. The retailer is able to evaluate a customer s individual demand based on the received description and determine a sale price accordingly thereby reducing losses associated with the single price systems described in the background. Although the inventive system may result in the sale of a product to two different customers for two different sale prices the system is perceived as fair by both customers because a higher paying customer likely agreed to a less flexible product description than a lower paying customer and neither customer would have agreed to the other s product description and sale price. The product descriptions received from customers also allow a retailer to determine what condition values are important to customers and to purchase and price regular inventory accordingly.

In addition the foregoing features allow a retailer to mask product discounts. For example a retailer may wish to reduce inventory of a product by selling the product at a discounted price. To mask the discount the retailer chooses undesirable purchase terms under which to sell the product such as pickup at a faraway location even if the product is available at a closer location. As a result the customer believes that the discount is attributable to the undesirable terms rather than to the product quality or to decreased demand. Accordingly price and brand dilution are minimized. In other embodiments a product description is determined based on a sale price. According to some of these embodiments a retailer receives a first sale price from a first customer determines a first product description based on the first sale price and transmits the first product description to the first customer. Similarly the retailer receives a second sale price from a second customer which is lower than the first sale price determines a second product description based on the second sale price and transmits the second product description to the second customer. If a product exists which conforms to both the first product description and the second product description the retailer may sell the product to the first customer for the first sale price and to the second customer for the second sale price. Even though the two customers pay different sale prices for the same product the two customers will likely perceive the system as fair because each is agreeing to a different product description corresponding to their sale price. In this regard the retailer may determine and transmit a broad product description based on the lower second sale price to give the second customer an impression that the product was sold for the second sale price only because the second customer agreed to a broad product description. This latter method is intended to mask any discount reflected by the lower sale price thereby reducing perceived unfairness and allowing a retailer to sell a product at a discounted price while minimizing price and brand dilution.

The present invention also addresses the problems discussed above by providing in one aspect a system in which a product description is received and a product is selected with a sale price of a particular selected product being a first sale price if the description is a first description and being a second sale price if the description is a second description.

The foregoing aspect provides a system by which a same product may be sold to different customers for different prices. Such pricing may be desirable if a product description received from one customer indicates a greater demand for a particular product than a product description received from another customer. It should be noted that in contrast to the airline pricing systems discussed in the background a system according to this aspect is perceived as fair because different product descriptions are received from each customer and because each customer would likely not have been willing to purchase a product conforming to the other customer s description for the other customer s sale price.

With these and other advantages and features of the invention that will become hereinafter apparent the nature of the invention may be more clearly understood by reference to the following detailed description of the invention the appended claims and to the several drawings attached hereto.

To ensure clarity of the following detailed description set forth below are definitions of terms used herein. The scope of the present invention is not to be deemed limited by the definitions.

Condition a category of values which are descriptive of a product see definition below and or a transaction. Examples include Manufacturer Features and Pickup Location.

Condition value a specific value corresponding to a condition. Using the above examples of conditions corresponding condition values may be Sony 27 in. and New York .

Conforming product a specific product deemed to meet the requirements of a product description or a sale price.

Customer any person group of people or other entity that patronizes a retailer see definition below and who purchases products from the retailer.

Mutually exclusive condition a condition such as Manufacturer for which a conforming product possesses only one condition value. In order for a product to conform to a product description the product must include only one condition value for each mutually exclusive condition in the product description. Therefore when mutually exclusive condition values are added to a product description a number of products conforming to the product description usually increases.

Mutually inclusive condition a condition such as Features for which a conforming product may contain more than one condition value. In order for a product to conform to a product description the product must include each mutually inclusive condition value in the product description. Therefore when mutually inclusive condition values are added to a product description a number of products conforming to the product description usually decreases.

Product a specific good or service usually identified by a make and model number. Identical products sold by a retailer may be assigned an identical product identifier such as a Uniform Product Code UPC or Stock Keeping Unit SKU while different products are usually assigned different product identifiers.

Product category a classification of a product or the general type of product a customer desires. Examples include Standard Television Home Computer and Airline Ticket.

Product description a set of condition values that describes a product see Product specific condition and may also describe a sales transaction see Transaction specific condition .

Product specific condition a condition relating to a product e.g. Manufacturer Features etc. Contrast with Transaction specific condition defined below.

Purchase terms Sale related terms which are accepted by a customer. Purchase terms may comprise a product description a sale price and a retailer s agreement to sell a product conforming to the product description for the sale price.

Redemption information Information specifying a specific product to be sold and information relating to the mechanics of a sales transaction such as payment method pickup location and time of redemption.

Retailer any person group of persons or entity that provides the sale of products to customers. Examples include a manufacturer an online store a traditional brick and mortar store a sales broker and an online storefront selling products offered by traditional stores.

Retailer data data accessible by or on behalf of a retailer which can be used to determine sale prices based on received product descriptions product descriptions based on received sale prices and or whether to encourage sales of particular products. Retailer data may include sales data inventory data demand data or subsidy data.

Sale Price a price for which a product is sold to a customer. A sale price according to the invention is often less than a retail price which is a price for which a product is sold through conventional channels.

Transaction specific condition a condition relating to details of a sales transaction e.g. Pickup Location Pickup Date Payment Method etc.

In a case that communication network is the World Wide Web Web the retail system controller may include a Web server for receiving requests for Web pages documents on the Web that typically include an HTML file and associated graphics and script files for generating Web pages and for transmitting Web pages over the Web. The Web server allows communication between the retail system controller and the Web communication network in a manner known in the art.

Each of the customer devices and may comprise computers such as those based on the Intel Pentium processor that are adapted to communicate with the controller over the communication network . Each of the customer devices and may also comprise a portable computer a dedicated terminal an Internet kiosk a Personal Digital Assistant a pager a cellular phone a pay phone a video game console an Automated Teller Machine a slot machine a watch a vending machine or any other device capable of receiving and transmitting data over the communication network . For example in a case that the communication network is the Web each of the customer devices and may execute a Web browser application for requesting receiving and reviewing Web pages. Any number of customer devices may be in communication with the communication network and the controller .

Those skilled in the art will understand that devices in communication with each other need not be continually transmitting to each other. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a device in communication with another device via the Web may not transmit data to the other device for weeks at a time.

The controller of comprises a processor such as one or more Intel Pentium processors. The processor is coupled to a communication port through which the controller communicates with other devices such as the customer devices and through communication network . The controller may also communicate with locally attached devices through the communication port . Accordingly the communication port may be adapted to communicate using protocols supported by the communication network and the locally attached devices.

Also connected to the processor are an input device and a display . The input device can be any device for inputting data such as a keyboard a touch screen a mouse a voice input device an infrared port or the like. The input device can be used by a retailer to enter data for use by the controller in accordance with the invention. Of course data may also be input to the controller by a retailer using a device connected directly to the controller or to the communication network . The display is used to display graphics and text and may be a CRT computer monitor a flat panel display or another display device.

The processor is also in communication with a data storage device . The data storage device is generally a data memory and may include any appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory. The data storage device may also include for example Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a compact disc and or a hard disk. Furthermore the storage device and the other elements of may each be for example i located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or ii connected to each other by a remote communication medium such as a serial port cable telephone line or radio frequency transceiver. In one embodiment the controller comprises one or more computers that are connected to a remote server computer for maintaining databases.

The data storage device stores a program of processor executable process steps for basic operation of the controller . The processor executes the process steps of the program and thereby operates in accordance with the present invention and particularly in accordance with the methods described in detail herein. The program may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The process steps of the program can be stored in the storage device during manufacture of the storage device can be downloaded from a compact disc or other computer readable medium or can be retrieved from a remote or local source via the communication port in the form of a signal having the process steps encoded thereon.

The data storage device also stores processor executable process steps for basic operation of the controller such as the process steps of an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing the controller to interface with computer peripheral devices. These latter process steps are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the steps of the program are transferred from the data storage device into a main memory such as a RAM and executed therefrom by the processor . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with processor executable software process steps for implementation of the processes of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. Moreover steps performed in accordance with the invention may be allocated between the controller and the customer devices and .

The storage device also stores i an offer database ii a customer database iii a flexibility database iv a product pricing database v a product description database vi a retailer data database vii a product database viii a purchase terms database and ix a redemption database . The databases to are described in detail below and depicted with sample entries in the accompanying figures. In this regard and as will be understood by those skilled in the art the schematic illustrations and accompanying descriptions of the databases presented herein are merely intended to demonstrate operable and preferred systems for associating and storing information. A number of other data structures may be employed besides those suggested by the tables shown. For example rather than using database tables as described herein the present invention may be implemented using only rules based methods or a combination of database tables and rules based methods. Similarly the illustrated entries of the databases represent sample information only those skilled in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those illustrated herein.

A storage device is connected to the processor and stores data and processor executable process steps for the operation of the customer device . For example the storage device stores data and process steps of an operating system which controls the operation of the customer device . Also stored in the storage device are processor executable process steps of a Web browser which can be executed by the processor to provide communication between a customer device and the retail system controller through the Web. Of course depending on the nature of the connections between the customer device the communication network and the controller other known applications or hardware may be needed for the customer device to communicate with the retail system controller .

product description vi Product States if any specified in the received product description and vii an offer status of an offer represented by the record. Usage of the data stored in the offer database will be discussed in detail below.

For each record in the customer database the customer identifier identifies a customer to whom data in the record correspond. In one embodiment the customer identifier serves as a link between the data in the databases used in the invention. For example a customer identifier in the offer database identifies a same customer as an identical customer identifier in the customer database .

The first name and last name of a customer are stored as the customer name and contact information provided by the customer is stored as customer contact information . The contact information may include one or more of a street address an e mail address a telephone number a facsimile number a pager number or any other information using which a customer can be contacted.

The payment identifier of a record includes information that can be used to charge a sale price to and or extract payment from a customer. The tabular representation shown in includes credit card numbers as example payment identifiers . In a case that a payment identifier is used only to charge a sale price to a customer the payment identifier need not be maintained after the sale price has been charged. Accordingly for security reasons it may be desirable to delete the payment identifier from the customer database after a sale price has been charged to the customer and to substitute a payment identifier such as PAID .

The flexibility database as shown in includes data grouped according to a particular product category. For each product category conditions and corresponding flexibility points are stored. Generally and as will be described below the flexibility database is used to determine a flexibility score based on condition values in a product description. For example using the tabular representation of each Manufacturer value specified in a product description adds ten points to a flexibility score. The points are added because each additional Manufacturer value in a product description may increase a number of conforming products that can be selected by a retailer and therefore may increase a retailer s flexibility in selecting a product to sell. On the other hand each Feature value in a product description reduces a flexibility score by five points since each Feature value added to a product description likely reduces a number of conforming products. More generally positive flexibility points are associated with mutually exclusive conditions and negative flexibility points are associated with mutually inclusive conditions . It should be noted that the flexibility database may include additional conditions and corresponding flexibility points as well as conditions and corresponding flexibility points for additional product categories.

As described with respect to the data shown in are used to determine a flexibility score of a product description which in turn is used to determine a sale price. As also described the flexibility database of may include additional condition values flexibility points and weighting factors for the Standard TV product category and for additional product categories.

Shown in A is a tabular representation of a portion of the product pricing database according to one embodiment of the invention. As shown the tabular representation includes several ranges of flexibility scores and corresponding sale prices for a particular product category. Since the ranges of flexibility scores and corresponding sale prices will likely vary across product categories a portion of the product pricing database such as that illustrated in A exists for each product category defined by a retailer.

The product pricing database according to this embodiment is used to determine a sale price based on a product description flexibility score. For example after reception of a product description from a customer a flexibility score is determined using a flexibility database such as that described with respect to . Next a score range including the determined flexibility score is located in a portion of the product pricing database corresponding to an appropriate category and a sale price corresponding to the located score range is determined to be the sale price. A detailed description of this process is set forth below.

A representation of a portion of the product pricing database according to another embodiment is shown in . The representation includes for a particular product sale prices corresponding to various ranges of flexibility scores . Of course the product pricing database of may include data for other products. Usage of the product pricing database according to is described below. Generally a conforming product is selected based on a received product description a flexibility score corresponding to the product description is calculated and data of the product pricing database of which corresponds to the selected product is used to determine a sale price. Accordingly in contrast to the embodiments reflected in A and B products of a same product category may be priced differently in response to a single product description.

The tabular representation shown in includes data for a specific product category. A set of related condition requirement and percentage discount data is stored for the specific category. Generally each condition is associated with any number of requirements with each requirement corresponding to a percentage discount . For example according to the first record in the illustrated table a 0 discount corresponds to a product description including only one Manufacturer value. Of course the product pricing database as shown in includes additional data for the Standard TV product category and data for other product categories.

Although the A to D databases associated a greater flexibility with a higher flexibility score it should be noted that a greater flexibility may be represented by 5 a lower flexibility score. Of course the discounts and or prices associated with flexibility scores in the illustrated databases would be altered accordingly.

The tabular representation includes for a product category several ranges of product discounts and description broadening rules corresponding to each range. In one contemplated use an input sale price is compared to an average retail price of an input product category in order to calculate a percentage discount reflected by the input sale price. Description broadening rules corresponding to the percentage discount are identified and used to create a product description. For example using the data shown in if the received sale price reflects a fifteen percent discount off the average retail price a product description is created specifying two manufacturers two guaranteed features and two pickup locations. Advantages variations and further details of the above process will be set forth in the following discussion.

The product description database may also be used to determine a sale price based on a received product description. In this regard a rule most closely fitting an input product description is identified and a discount associated with the identified rule is applied to a specified price to determine a sale price corresponding to the product description.

The manufacturer of a record indicates a product manufacturer the current inventory represents a number of products in current inventory produced by the manufacturer and the forecasted current inventory represents a forecasted current amount of inventory produced by the manufacturer. The current forecasted ratio for a particular record reflects the current inventory of the record divided by the forecasted inventory and is used in one embodiment described in detail below to determine weighting factors of the flexibility database as represented in . It should be noted that additional retailer data for the Standard TV product category and for other product categories can be included in the retailer database .

Another tabular representation of a portion of the retailer data database is illustrated in . The data within the tabular representation are similar to that shown in except that instead of each record being directed to a particular manufacturer each record is directed to a particular product identified by a product identifier . In an embodiment to be described below current forecasted ratios of are used to determine which of two conforming products should be selected by the retail system controller to fill a customer accepted offer. Of course data for additional products may be contained in the retailer database of .

A portion of the product database is represented in a tabular form in . Each record in the tabular representation represents one product and comprises i a product identifier ii a manufacturer iii features iv pickup locations v product states vi a minimum acceptable price and vii a retail price .

For each record the product identifier identifies a particular product available from a retailer. In one embodiment the product identifier for a product is identical to a product identifier used in the retailer data database to identify the same product. The manufacturer identifies the manufacturer of the particular product the features identify the features of the particular product the pickup locations identify locations at which the product is available and the product states identify physical states such as new or used in which the particular product is available. The minimum acceptable price indicates a minimum price at which the retail system controller is permitted to sell the product and the retail price specifies the price of the product when sold through conventional channels. Other types of data as well as data for products other than those shown may be included in the product database .

The generated purchase terms include terms generated by the retail system controller and accepted by the customer. For example in a case that a transaction was initiated by customer input of a product description the generated purchase terms would include a corresponding sale price generated by the controller . On the other hand if the transaction was initiated by customer input of a sale price the generated purchase terms would include a generated product description.

The process steps begin at step in which a product description is received from a customer. In one embodiment a product category is also received with the product description. The product description is a set of condition values describing a desired product. For example the product description Sony Magnavox Toshiba Picture in Picture and New describes both a new twenty seven inch Magnavox television with picture in picture as well as a new thirty five inch Sony television with picture in picture digital comb filter V chip and surround sound features. It should be noted that a product description may also include limiting condition values such as 27 in. to 35 in. .

In one embodiment a customer inputs the product description prior to step . For example a customer using the customer device selects the product category Standard Television and inputs the product description Sony Magnavox Toshiba Picture in Picture and New using the input device and the display . In this regard the interface provided by the customer device for input of the product description may present retailer defined conditions for which values are selected by the customer using well known graphical user interface elements such as pull down menus check boxes or radio buttons. Text entry boxes may also be provided for customer entry of condition values. The product description may be input in any number of other ways depending on the nature of the customer device such as by using voice recognition or character recognition or from a computer readable medium storing a product description. In another embodiment the customer device presents the customer with several product descriptions and the customer inputs a product description prior to step by selecting one of the presented product descriptions. It should be noted that the customer device used to input the product description may be located within a store operated by a retailer.

Returning to step the condition values of the received product description are stored in appropriate fields of the offer database along with an offer identifier generated to identify the present offer and a customer identifier that identifies the customer. Also stored in association with the product description is a status of Pending System .

In step a sale price is determined based on the received product description. Several systems for determining the sale price are discussed below with respect to and these systems primarily use data stored in the flexibility database the product pricing database and the retailer data database . After the sale price is determined the sale price is transmitted to the customer in step . Accordingly the associated status is updated to Pending Customer to reflect that the system is awaiting acceptance or rejection of the sale price.

In one embodiment the sale price is transmitted from the retail system controller over the communication network and back to the customer device from which the product description was received in step . After reception of the sale price the customer device displays the sale price to the customer using the display . Of course in a case that the customer device does not have a display the sale price is communicated to the customer in some other manner such as through a speaker or a printout. The sale price may also be transmitted to the customer in step using other known methods.

In another embodiment the sale price transmitted in step is specified in terms of a discount amount such as 25 off the retail price of the selected product or 50 off the retail price of the selected product .

Transmitted along with the sale price are other purchase terms which facilitate formation of a binding agreement between the customer and the retailer. The other purchase terms include in one embodiment the received product description and an offer from the retailer to sell a product conforming to the product description for the sale price. However the controller does not transmit in step and before an agreement to purchase a product for the sale price is received any information to the customer identifying a particular product to be sold to the customer upon completion of the transaction. The customer is also not guaranteed before an agreement to purchase a product for the sale price is received what specific product will be purchased. By avoiding transmission of this information a retailer is provided with flexibility in selecting a product to sell after the customer is bound to the agreement. However in another embodiment specific details of two or more particular products are transmitted to the customer in step along with an indication that an unspecified one of the particular products will be sold to the customer upon receiving an agreement from the customer. This embodiment also provides the retailer with some flexibility in selecting a product to sell after the customer is bound.

It should be noted that a particular product conforming to the product description mayor may not be selected prior to step .

After step it is determined in step whether or not the customer agrees to the sale price. In one embodiment the customer is required to select an I Agree symbol displayed on the display and the selection is transmitted to the retail system controller via the communication network . Of course other known systems for communicating an agreement can be used in step . The customer may also be required to provide customer and payment information such as a credit card number so that the retailer is ensured of payment. The customer and payment information are stored in the customer database along with an associated customer identifier . In other embodiments the customer and payment information are received with the product description in step and a credit check pre authorization for the sale price is performed prior to transmission of the sale price in step .

If it is determined in step that the customer does not agree to the sale price the process steps of terminate. In some embodiments the customer can edit the product description rather than agree to the sale price or the retail system controller can suggest changes to the product description that would reduce the sale price. Once it is determined that the customer agrees to the sale price flow continues to step .

In step a product is selected that conforms to the product description. One system for such selection is described below in conjunction with . After the conforming product is selected in step redemption information is transmitted to the customer in step . In one embodiment the redemption information includes specific details identifying the selected product and selected transaction specific details such as pickup location and redemption time. The transaction specific details may be selected so as to mask a discount reflected in the sale price as will be described in detail with reference to . In another embodiment the customer is not presented with information identifying the selected product until the product is redeemed. In this regard the product may not even be selected until the customer attempts to redeem the product. The latter arrangement provides retailers with significant flexibility in choosing a product to sell and retailers may therefore significantly discount products redeemed in this manner.

The redemption information may be transmitted via the communication network used to receive the product description or by another communication network. In a case that the product will be picked up by the customer at a retail location also transmitted in step is a redemption identifier embodied in a paper voucher a personal identification code a frequent shopper card or other record of purchase details. Similarly to step step may also be performed once a customer arrives at a retail location to pick up a product.

A product redemption is processed in step . In one embodiment a product redemption involves receiving a redemption identifier from a customer and presenting the customer with a corresponding product identified in the redemption database . The retailer presented with the redemption identifier need not be in communication with the retail system controller . In this regard the presented redemption identifier may represent perhaps in encoded form all the information needed for the redemption such as the information shown in the redemption database . In addition there may be no need to process a product redemption in a case that the selected product is shipped to the customer. Details of product redemption will be discussed with respect to .

It should be noted that the foregoing process steps do not describe each embodiment of the invention. For example a conforming product may be selected any time after a product description is received. In another embodiment a customer is presented with suggestions to change a product description after the product description is received in a case that no conforming product is available or for other reasons. Moreover a sale price and alternative product descriptions may be transmitted in step . The alternative product descriptions may be similar to the received product description but with different condition values. In this embodiment it would be determined in step whether the customer agreed to the sale price and to what product description the customer agreed.

The customer and the retailer benefit as a result of the process steps. Specifically the customer can receive lower prices by providing flexible description parameters and may receive discounts that would not be given to the general public for fear of price and brand dilution. The retailer is able to evaluate a customer s individual demand based on the received description and determine a sale price accordingly thereby reducing losses associated with conventional retail pricing systems. In embodiments where the retailer does not select the product to sell until well after the customer agreement the retailer further benefits by being able to optimize the ordering of inventory based on outstanding offers. Although the process steps may result in a single product being sold for different sale prices the system is perceived as fair because a higher paying customer likely agreed to a different product description than a lower paying customer and neither would have agreed to the other s product description and sale price. The product descriptions received from customers also allow a retailer to determine what features are important to customers and to purchase and price inventory accordingly.

As an example of steps and a case is considered in which a flexibility score is determined for the product description Sony Magnavox Toshiba V chip stereo sound and Picture in Picture . According to the database as represented in the condition values Sony Magnavox and Toshiba are determined to correspond to 10 flexibility points each and the remaining feature values are determined to correspond to 5 flexibility points each. Accordingly the flexibility score corresponding to the product description is fifteen 10 10 10 5 5 5 15 .

According to another embodiment steps and are performed using data shown in the flexibility database of . Flexibility scores are determined using the flexibility database or by multiplying for each condition value a corresponding number of flexibility points with a corresponding weighting factor . Using the previous product description the condition values Sony Magnavox Toshiba V chip stereo sound and Picture in Picture would correspond to flexibility points 10 5 50 10 0.5 5 10 1 10 5 1 5 5 4 20 and 5 3 15 respectively. Accordingly a flexibility score of 50 5 10 5 20 15 25 would be determined in step .

As described above a weighting factor of the flexibility database may reflect the desirability of a corresponding condition value in view of retailer data. For example if a ratio of current inventory of a manufacturer to forecasted inventory of the manufacturer in the retailer database is 5 the retailer may wish to price the manufacturer s products so as to increase sales thereof. Accordingly the retailer would like to associate a high flexibility score with received product descriptions including the desired manufacturer as a condition value. Therefore a corresponding weighting factor in the flexibility database of is set to 5. On the other hand a current forecasted ratio of 0.5 indicates that a second manufacturer s products are selling better than expected. Since the retailer would likely prefer to continue selling these products without a discount inclusion of the second manufacturer in a product description does not significantly increase the flexibility available to the retailer in selecting a product to sell. As a result the weighting corresponding to the second manufacturer is set to 0.5 in the database of .

The embodiment of the flexibility database illustrated in thereby allows retailer data such as inventory sales demand and subsidies to be used in creating a flexibility score which more accurately reflects a flexibility and a desirability of a particular description. For example manufacturers of certain products may offer subsidies to a retailer to promote sales of the products. Therefore condition values representing the subsidized products are associated with relatively large weighting factors so that a product description to which a subsidized product conforms will likely produce a high flexibility score.

In one embodiment weighting factors are generated for each condition value in each product category either manually or using ratios as shown in . It should also be noted that other retailer data can be used in determining weighting factors corresponding to particular condition values. such as current sales v. forecasted sales current sales lower than current demand and current inventory higher than historical inventory. Moreover the weighting factors can be updated periodically or in real time by triggering off of changes made to the retailer data.

Returning to the flow diagram a sale price is determined in step based on the flexibility score by using the product pricing database . In the embodiment of the database represented in A the previously determined flexibility score of 25 corresponds to a sale price of 250. The corresponding sale prices shown in A can be derived in many ways. The prices may be based on a range of previously offered discount prices of products within the product category on a range of percentage discounts off an average retail price of products in the category on incremental price steps between the lowest and highest retail prices in the product category or on any other data. It should be noted that the sale prices in the product pricing database are not necessarily related to a product which will be eventually sold to the customer.

Using the embodiment of the database the flexibility score of 25 corresponds to a 20 discount and the sale price is determined in step by applying the percentage discount to a retail price corresponding to the product category. The retail price to which the discount is applied may be a retail price of a product already selected for sale to the customer a retail price of another conforming product an average retail price of conforming products or another price. Again the retail price is not necessarily related to the product which will be eventually sold to the customer.

In a case that a conforming product for sale is selected prior to determination of a sale price data shown in are used to determine the sale price in step . As shown the data associate a flexibility score with a sale price for a particular product. For example in a case that product P was selected and a flexibility score of 25 was determined prior to step a sale price of 250 is determined using the data of .

It should be noted that the databases as shown in to may be organized by specific product rather than by product category. In this case a product is selected prior to step and entries of the databases corresponding to the selected product are used as described above to determine the sale price in step .

In step a cumulative discount corresponding to the product description is calculated by summing the determined percentage discounts. In the previous example the cumulative discount is 15 . Next in step the sale price is determined by discounting a particular retail price by the cumulative discount. The particular retail price may be a retail price of a specific conforming product an average retail price of the subject product category or any other price.

It should be noted that the percentage discounts stored in the product pricing database of may be condition value specific as described with respect to . In this case the requirements would include particular condition values and discounts either weighted or unweighted would be associated with each value. As also described with respect to the product pricing database of may be organized by specific product rather than by product category. In this case a product is selected prior to step and entries of the database corresponding to the selected product are used as described above to determine the sale price in step .

In another embodiment of step the retail system controller stores product descriptions and associated sale prices. Accordingly in this embodiment a stored product description most similar to the received product description is identified and a sale price is determined to be equal to a sale price associated with the stored product description. Still other methods for determining a sale price based on a product description will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In step a product to sell is selected from the identified conforming products. In one embodiment transaction specific condition values conforming to the product description are also selected in step . The selection of a product and of condition values can be based on many different factors. For example a product may be selected that optimizes profit inventory sales demand subsidies or any other variable. In this regard a product having excess inventory may be selected for sale even though the determined sale price reflects a substantial discount off the retail price.

A retailer may be more likely to sell a product at a discount in a case that the received product description includes an undesirable transaction specific condition value such as pickup at an inconvenient location because the undesirable value can be used to mask the discount. In other words although the product may be available at a more convenient location the retailer can select to sell the product at the inconvenient location specified in the product description. The customer will therefore tend to feel like the discount was earned and other customers paying more for the product but picking up the product at a convenient location will feel fairly treated. Moreover price and brand dilution can be minimized because the discount will be attributed to the details of the transaction rather than to the product.

Many other transaction specific conditions can be used to justify and or mask a product discount such as Time of Redemption and Product State. The Time of Redemption condition specifies a time period during which the customer is willing to wait before redeeming the product. In a case that a customer has specified a Time of Redemption value such as three months the retail system controller can use the customer s willingness to wait for the product as an apparent reason for offering a large price discount. Moreover the retailer may be willing to discount a price of a product in exchange for future demand guaranteed by the three month condition value because the retailer will be able to reorder inventory tailored to the future demand or to select a particular product in step that hasn t sold well through conventional channels.

The Product State condition may have values such as new used refurbished demo or the like. These values are useful because a retailer may want to discount a non new product to dispose of products that aren t selling and that cannot be returned to the manufacturer. The non new condition values may also be used to justify a discount in an attempt to minimize price dilution brand dilution and perceived unfairness.

A retailer may have other reasons for selecting a particular product and particular transaction specific condition values. For example if a new or remote pickup location is specified in a product description along with other locations a retailer may choose to select a product to be picked up at the specified location simply to increase customer traffic at the new or remote location.

In step the purchase terms database is updated. The database is updated by creating a purchase terms identifier corresponding to the current offer identifier and by storing the generated purchase terms in conjunction with the created purchase terms identifier . Next in step the redemption database is updated by generating a redemption identifier and associating the purchase terms identifier a product identifier identifying the selected product if any and any transaction specific redemption information therewith. Also associated therewith is a redemption status .

In step the redemption is analyzed to validate whether all requirements for the transaction are satisfied. According to one embodiment of step the received redemption identifier is used to locate a corresponding record in the redemption database and specifically to locate redemption information associated with the redemption identifier. The current redemption is then analyzed in step to determine whether the current redemption satisfies the details of the redemption information . For example it is determined in step whether the customer is picking up the product at the location and time specified in the redemption information if any. In other embodiments the received redemption identifier encodes redemption information such as the redemption information and the redemption identifier is decoded to retrieve the information used in step .

It is then determined in step whether a payment has been received from the customer. In one embodiment this determination is made by referring to the redemption status of the corresponding record in the redemption database . If payment has not been received from the customer flow proceeds from step to step to receive payment from the customer. The payment may be in any form acceptable to the retailer such as cash check credit card debit card or the like. In a case that the redemption is not conducted in person it may be easiest to receive payment by credit card. In some embodiments payment is guaranteed with payment information in conjunction with customer acceptance of a received sale price. In this regard the customer may be charged a penalty if he does not attempt redemption.

If the payment has been received the customer is presented in step with the product identified by the product identifier of the corresponding record. If the corresponding record does not include a product identifier the product is also selected in step . The presentation may include handing the product to the customer or shipping the product to the customer. In this regard the product may be a software based product which is shipped to the customer by encoding the product in an electrical signal and sending the signal to a customer device over the communication network using an appropriate transmission protocol.

In more detail a sale price is received from a customer at step . The sale price may be received in any known manner including those specified above with respect to step of . In alternative embodiments the sale price received in step is in the form of a range of sale prices a percentage discount off a retail price or a discount amount off a retail price. A product category may also be received along with the sale price. For example the data 200 and Standard Television may be received in step . The received sale price may also be specified in terms of a discount such as 10 less than retail price or 20 off retail price or a range of values such as 400 to 425 . In one embodiment the received sale price is stored in the offered price field of the offer database in association with an offer identifier created to represent the current offer.

Next in step a product description is determined based on the received sale price. In one embodiment a database may be used which contains for each product category several ranges of sale prices and a product description corresponding to each range. In this embodiment step is performed simply by identifying the range of prices in which the received sale price falls and obtaining the corresponding product description. In a variation of this embodiment several descriptions may correspond to each range of sale prices.

In another embodiment the product description database is used in step to identify a rule corresponding to the received sale price. A product description is created based on the corresponding rule with the condition values of the product description identifying related or similar values. For example if the rule calls for three manufacturers three low end or three high end manufacturers may be included in the created product description. Details of another embodiment of step will be described in conjunction with .

After step the product description is transmitted to a customer in step . The transmission can be performed using one of the methods discussed with respect to step or using other known methods. In one embodiment the product description is transmitted with purchase terms which along with a customer s agreement to the product description creates a binding contract to purchase a product. The purchase terms may include the received sale price the product description and an offer from the retailer to sell a product conforming to the product description for the sale price. In another embodiment the controller does not transmit in step any information to the customer identifying a particular product to be sold to the customer before an agreement to purchase a product conforming to the product description is received. The controller also does not guarantee to the customer before an agreement to purchase a product conforming to the product description is received what specific product will be purchased. By avoiding transmission of this information a retailer is provided with flexibility in selecting a product to sell after the customer is bound to the sale.

Alternatively two or more particular products are identified to the customer in step along with an indication that an unspecified one of the particular products will be sold to the customer upon receiving an agreement from the customer. This embodiment also provides the retailer with some flexibility in selecting a product to sell after the customer is bound.

Next in step it is determined whether the customer agrees to purchase a product conforming to the product description for the sale price. Similar mechanisms to those described in conjunction with step can be used to determine whether the customer has made such an agreement. If the customer does not agree the process steps terminate. The customer may have an opportunity to resubmit the sale price in hopes of receiving another product description or the customer may have the option of submitting a new sale price. If the customer agrees flow proceeds to step . Steps to proceed similarly to steps to and detailed descriptions thereof are omitted for the sake of brevity.

According to the process steps the retailer may sell a same product to two customers for two different sale prices. However the two customers will likely perceive the system as fair because each is agreeing to a different sale price and product description. In addition the retailer may determine a broad product description based on the lower sale price to give an impression that the lower sale price is available only because the lower paying customer agrees to a broad product description. This method masks any discount reflected in the lower sale price reduces perceived unfairness and allows a retailer to sell a product at a discounted price while minimizing price and brand dilution.

First products which conform to the sale price received in step are identified by referring to the minimum acceptable prices of the product database . Specifically for each product of a product category received in step an associated minimum acceptable price is compared with the received sale price. The products having an associated minimum acceptable price less than the received sale price are identified as conforming products in step . For example if the received sale price is 300 products P and P of are identified as conforming products.

In step products for which discounts are preferred are selected from the identified conforming products. In one embodiment only those conforming products that are selling more slowly than forecasted are selected in step . These slow selling products can be identified from the retailer database as those having a current forecasted ratio of less than unity. In the present example the product having an identifier P is selected as a product for which discounts are preferred. It should be noted that more than one product may be selected in step .

Of course other methods may be used and other retailer data considered when selecting preferred products to discount in step . For example it may be preferable to determine a desired price for each identified conforming product and to select only those products for which the desired price is less than the received sale price.

In step a product description is created which covers the products selected in step . In one embodiment the created product description includes all mutually exclusive condition values present in each selected product. In addition the product description includes only those mutually inclusive conditions present in all selected products. Using these guidelines and the data representing product identifiers P and P in the product database a product description is created including the mutually exclusive condition values Magnavox Toshiba Stamford Hartford Teaneck New and Refurbished and the mutually inclusive condition value Picture in Picture .

In step the created product description is broadened in order to mask any discount that may result from the sale of a product at the sale price. In general the description is broadened by removing condition values for mutually inclusive conditions and by adding condition values for mutually exclusive conditions. By broadening the product description any discount will appear to be due to the customer s willingness to accept the uncertainty presented by a flexible product description.

In one embodiment of step the description is broadened based on a percentage discount off a retail price reflected by the sale price. The retail price may be a retail price of a particular product to be sold to the customer in a case that the particular product has been selected an average retail price of the products selected in step or another retail price. As shown in the representation of the product description database ranges of percentage discounts and associated description broadening rules are established for a product category. In operation a percentage discount is calculated a corresponding range is located in the product description database and description broadening rules associated with the range are identified. It is then ensured that the description created in step is at least as broad as specified in the identified rules. If not condition values are added for mutually exclusive conditions and or removed for mutually inclusive conditions .

In another embodiment of step the product description database is organized by product rather than by product category. Accordingly a product is selected to sell prior to step a percentage discount reflected by the sale price is calculated and data in the database corresponding to the product is accessed to identify appropriate description broadening rules corresponding to the percentage discount .

The description may also be broadened in step to include mutually exclusive condition values normally possessed by expensive products in order to encourage the customer to agree to the product description. On the other hand the product description may be broadened to describe lower quality items in order to give a customer agreeing to the product description a pleasant surprise when the customer learns that the product to be purchased is a better quality product.

Specifically a product description and a sale price are determined in step . In one embodiment step occurs in response to customer input of a product category. The product description may be determined in step based on a manual entry or using an automated analysis of retailer data with the sale price being determined based on the product description using any of the methods described above. Alternatively the sale price can be determined based on a manual entry or using an automated analysis with the product description being determined based on the sale price as described above or by using other methods.

Next in step the product description and sale price are transmitted to a customer device from which the product description and sale price can be presented to customers. For example the product description and the sale price may be transmitted to a publicly located kiosk or ATM machine where they can be presented to customers approaching the kiosk or ATM machine for information or banking services. Alternatively a retail store can include such kiosks for display of information and special deals to browsing customers. In addition the product description and the sale price may be transmitted to electronic price tags and presented to customers thereby.

In one embodiment the product description and the sale price are transmitted along with information to facilitate formation of a binding agreement between the customer and the retailer. The information may include the product description the sale price and an offer from the retailer to sell a product conforming to the product description for the sale price. It is contemplated to avoid transmitting before receiving an agreement to purchase a product conforming to the product description for the sale price any information to the customer identifying a particular product to be sold to the customer upon completion of the transaction. It is also contemplated to avoid guaranteeing to the customer before receiving an agreement to purchase a product conforming to the product description for the sale price what specific product will be purchased. By avoiding transmission of this information a retailer is provided with flexibility in selecting a product to sell after the sale is secured. In another embodiment specific details of two or more particular products are also transmitted to the customer in step along with an indication that an unspecified one of the particular products will be sold to the customer upon receiving an agreement from the customer. This embodiment also provides the retailer with some flexibility in selecting a product to sell after a sale is secured.

Thereafter in step it is determined whether a customer has agreed to purchase a product conforming to the product description for the sale price. The customer can indicate agreement in any known manner including using the customer device from which the sale price and the product description were presented to the customer. Steps and proceed similarly to steps and of respectively and descriptions of these steps are therefore omitted for the sake of brevity.

In step the retail system controller determines a sale price corresponding to the product description. The sale price may be determined based on any of the methods discussed with respect to step or using other methods. The sale price is then transmitted to the customer in step . In one embodiment also transmitted in step is an agreement from the retailer to sell for the sale price an airline ticket for flights that conform to the product description.

Next in step an agreement is received from the customer to purchase an airline ticket for flights conforming to the product description for the sale price. In one embodiment the controller does not transmit before an agreement to purchase an airline ticket for the sale price is received any information to the customer identifying a particular flight on which the purchased airline ticket will allow the customer to travel. The customer is also not guaranteed before an agreement to purchase an airline ticket for the sale price is received to what specific flight or flights the airline ticket corresponds. By avoiding transmission of this information a retailer is provided with flexibility in selecting an airline ticket to sell after the customer is bound to the agreement. However in another embodiment specific details of two or more particular flights are transmitted to the customer in step along with an indication that the airline ticket that will be sold will allow the customer to travel on an unspecified one or more of the particular flights. This embodiment also provides the retailer with some flexibility in selecting a ticket to sell after the customer is bound.

An airline ticket for flights conforming to the product description is selected in step . In one embodiment the selection of the airline ticket and flights is delayed so as to give the retailer an opportunity to determine what flights will not sell out and to bind the customer to those low demand flights. After step the identity of the selected flights is transmitted to the customer in step .

It should be noted that the airline ticket may be selected at any time after the product description is received in step . It should also be noted that the alternative arrangements discussed in sections I. to III. may be incorporated where appropriate to the steps of .

The following are several examples that illustrate additional embodiments of the present invention. These examples do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is applicable to many other embodiments. Further although the following examples are briefly described for clarity those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes if necessary to the above described embodiments to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.

According to an additional embodiment a customer input product description includes condition values weighted or ranked in order of preference. The condition values may be weighted by assignment of a dollar amount to each condition value or by using slider bars of a graphical user interface to indicate an amount of preference. The condition values in such a product description therefore do not reflect absolute requirements of a conforming product but guidelines for selecting a product. Accordingly such a product description provides significant flexibility to a retailer in selecting a product to sell. The retailer may be willing to provide a deep discount in exchange for this flexibility.

In another embodiment the customer is bound to the transaction for a specified period but the retailer is not. Accordingly once the customer has accepted a sale price product description the retailer can choose to sell a conforming product to a customer at any time within the specified period. The retailer may also choose not to sell a product to the customer during the specified period based on inventory demand from other buyers competitors prices or other factors. Again the retailer may be willing to offer a substantial discount in exchange for the flexibility provided by such an arrangement.

As mentioned above the present invention advantageously allows a retailer to collect data regarding condition values desired by customers. Therefore in one embodiment the retailer system controller includes an optimization program that orders or reorders inventory tailored to the collected data. Such a program could for example identify the most commonly desired condition values and order products that conform to those condition values. In identifying the most commonly desired condition values the optimization program can give more weight to the condition values of received product descriptions which result in a sale as opposed to condition values of received product descriptions which do not result in a sale.

The collected data may also be used to determine a perceived value of various condition values. The perceived values may be used in cases where the retailer cannot satisfy a received product condition by replacing unsatisfiable condition values with satisfiable condition values having similar perceived values.

The retail system controller may also include a list of preferred products to sell. In a case that a listed product conforms to a received product description a retailer may be willing to transmit a discounted sale price. On the other hand if no listed products conform to the received product description the retailer may transmit suggested changes to the product description so as to persuade the customer to submit a product description to which a listed product conforms.

In another embodiment the retail system controller considers the transaction history of a customer from whom a product description sale price was received during determination of a sale price product description based on the received description price. For example a first time customer may be presented with a substantial discount or a narrow product description in order to retain the customer. The retail system controller may also consider other customer activities during determination of a sale price product description. In this regard a customer may earn additional flexibility points price discounts or a narrower product description by filling out a surveyor by providing additional product descriptions during the sales transaction. For example a first customer who submits a product description and agrees to complete a survey receives a lower sale price than a second customer who submits an identical product description and does not agree to complete the survey. The lower sale price may be determined by using a more favorable flexibility database and or product pricing database for the first customer than the second customer. Similarly a first customer who submits a sale price and agrees to complete a survey receives a narrower product description than a second customer who submits an identical sale price and does not agree to complete the survey. This latter scenario may be implemented by using a more favorable product description database for the first customer.

In responding to reception of a product description from a customer the retailer may present alternatives that foresee the customer s response. For example the retailer may present a customer with a low price and a product description which conforms closely but not exactly to the received product description with a high price and a product description having more desirable mutually inclusive condition values than the received product description and with the received product description a price between the high price and the low price. Such an approach increases a likelihood that an agreement will be reached and provides the retailer with an opportunity to move undesirable products or to generate greater profit. This approach may also be incorporated into embodiments in which a sale price is received from a customer.

While the present invention has been described above with respect to several embodiments the scope of the invention is not deemed limited to the above embodiments. Rather the present invention covers all embodiments falling within the scope and spirit of the following claims as well as equivalent arrangements thereof.

