---

title: Providing to a web-based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device
abstract: The disclosed subject matter relates to computer implemented methods for providing to a web-based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device. In one aspect, a method includes establishing a first link between a computing device and a web-based application. The computing device is configured to access the web-based application. The method further includes establishing a second link between the computing device and a peripheral device. The method further includes bridging the first link and the second link to establish a communication channel between the web-based application and the peripheral device. The communication channel is configured to provide to the web-based application access at a hardware level to the peripheral device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392064&OS=09392064&RS=09392064
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09392064
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120626
---
A web based application is typically accessed over a network such as the Internet or an intranet. The term is also used to refer to software applications that are written in browser supported languages. One example of a browser supported language is JavaScript. Browser supported languages e.g. JavaScript can be combined with browser rendered markup language e.g. HTML to render an application executable.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a computer implemented method for providing to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device. The method includes establishing a first link between a computing device and a web based application. The computing device is configured to access the web based application. The method further includes establishing a second link between the computing device and a peripheral device. The method further includes bridging the first link and the second link to establish a communication channel between the web based application and the peripheral device. The communication channel is configured to provide to the web based application access at a hardware level to the peripheral device.

The disclosed subject matter further relates to a system for providing to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device. The system includes a memory which includes instructions for providing to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device and a processor. The processor is configured to execute the instructions to provide to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device. The processor is further configured to establish a first link between a computing device between a computing device and a web based application. The processor is further configured to establish a second link between the computing device and a peripheral device. The processor is further configured to bridge the first link and the second link to establish a communication channel between the web based application and the peripheral device. The communication channel is configured to provide to the web based application access at a hardware level to the peripheral device. The communication channel is further configured for bi directional hardware level communication between the web based application and the peripheral device.

The disclosed subject matter further relates to a machine readable medium including machine readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method for providing to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device. The method includes establishing a first link between a computing device and a web based application. The computing device is configured to access the web based application. The method further includes establishing a second link between the computing device and a peripheral device. The method further includes bridging the first link and the second link to establish a communication channel between the web based application and the peripheral device. The communication channel is configured to provide to the web based application access at a hardware level to the peripheral device.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative and not restrictive in nature.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology can be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a more thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

Access to peripheral devices may be granted to an application for a variety of reasons. Access to peripheral devices requires a level of access privileges that can include access to other resources e.g. hard disk files on a computing device. Providing access privileges at such a level to a web based application may pose a security threat.

According to certain aspects of the subject technology systems and methods for providing to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device are provided. The phrase access at a hardware level as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to access to a device with little or no abstraction.

The computing devices can be for example mobile computers tablet computers mobile devices e.g. a smartphone or PDA desktop computers set top boxes e.g. for a television video game consoles or any other devices having appropriate processing capabilities communications capabilities and memory. Each computing device is configured to include an input device for accepting user input and an output device to display information to the user.

Each computing device can have connected to it one or more peripheral devices. The term peripheral device as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not devices that are operatively linked to a computing device e.g. computing device . A peripheral device can be an input device an output device and or a second computing device .

The computing devices can be connected to the network . The network can include any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the network can include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network and the like.

The servers can be for example stand alone servers shared servers dedicated servers cluster grid servers e.g. a server farm or cloud servers. Each of the servers may include one or more processors communications modules and memory. The servers may be configured to distribute workload e.g. for loadbalancing across multiple servers.

The computing device includes an input device an output device a processor a communications module and memory . The input device can be a touchscreen a mouse a keyboard or any other device to enable a user to supply input to the computing device . The output device can be a display screen. Input received via the input device can be processed locally on the computing device and or the server .

The computing device is connected to the network via a communications module . The communications module is configured to interface with the network to send and receive information such as data requests responses and commands to other devices on the network . The communications module can be for example a modem or Ethernet card.

The memory includes a graphical user interface which allows a user to interact with the computing device and can be used to display information to the user. The graphical user interface may be installed locally at the computing device and or downloaded from the server .

The memory further includes software instructions that can be read by the processor to implement a peripheral access module . Data generated and or stored by the peripheral access module can be stored as peripheral access data . The peripheral access module includes software instructions for establishing a first link between the computing device and a web based application which can be displayed on the computing device as or within the graphical user interface . The peripheral access module further includes software instructions for establishing a second link between the computing device and the peripheral device . The peripheral access module further includes software instructions for bridging the first link and the second link to establish a communication channel between the web based application and the peripheral device . The communication channel is configured to provide to the web based application access at a hardware level to the peripheral device .

A peripheral device is operatively linked to the computing device . The peripheral device can be an input device an output device and or a second computing device . The first link and or the second link can be wired or wireless.

The processor of the computing device is configured to execute instructions such as instructions physically coded into the processor instructions read from the memory or a combination of both. As an example based on the instructions read from the memory e.g. the peripheral access module the processor can be configured to execute a method for providing to a web based application access at a hardware level to a peripheral device .

Once the instructions from the memory are loaded the processor is configured to establish a first link between a computing device e.g. and a web based application wherein the computing device e.g. is configured to access the web based application. The processor is further configured to establish a second link between the computing device e.g. and a peripheral device e.g. . The processor is further configured to bridge the first link and the second link to establish a communication channel between the web based application and the peripheral device e.g. wherein the communication channel is configured to provide to the web based application access at a hardware level to the peripheral device e.g. .

The servers can be for example stand alone servers shared servers dedicated servers cluster grid servers e.g. a server farm or cloud servers. Each of the servers may include one or more processors communications modules and memory. The servers may be configured to distribute workload e.g. for loadbalancing across multiple servers.

One or more of the servers can host the web based application being accessed by the computing device . Data generated and or stored by the web based application can be stored as application data .

In step a first link is established between the computing device and the web based application . The computing device is configured to access the web based application . The web based application is displayed on the output device as or within the graphical user interface .

In step a second link is established between the computing device and a peripheral device . The peripheral device can be operatively linked to the computing device wirelessly or using a wire. That is the second link which is the link between the computing device and the peripheral device can be wired or wireless.

In step the first link and the second link are bridged to establish a communication channel between the web based application and the peripheral device .

The first link and the second link can be bridged in a variety of ways. For example the bridging can include a handshake to establish the communication channel. The handshake can be a secure handshake. That is the handshake can be implemented in a manner to prevent eavesdropping and or tampering with the handshake. Therefore when the handshake is a secure handshake an entity e.g. a malicious program operating on the computing device a third party can not learn anything about the contents of the handshake.

Just as the handshake can be implemented as a secure handshake the communication channel can similarly be secured. That is the communication channel can be implemented in a manner that prevents eavesdropping and or tampering with the communications channel.

The communication channel can support bi directional communication between the web based application and the peripheral device . That is both the web based application and the peripheral device can send data to and or receive data from each other at a hardware level.

As one example the communication channel can enable the web based application to access features of the peripheral device without intermediary translation e.g. abstraction by software e.g. operating system installed on the computing device . Similarly the communication channel is configured to carry information e.g. signals data from the peripheral device to the web based application without intermediary translation by software e.g. operating system installed on the computing device .

As another example the peripheral device can send raw data to the web based application via the communication channel. Similarly the web based application can send data and or instructions to the peripheral device . The data and or instructions sent by the web based application can be in response to the raw data received from the peripheral device .

It should be noted that the phrase raw data as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to unprocessed data generated by a peripheral device e.g. peripheral device .

The communication channel is configured to limit access privileges of the web based application to the peripheral device . That is the communication channel is implemented in a manner that prevents the web based application from accessing any resources on or connected to the computing device other than the peripheral device . By restricting the access privileges of the web based application the computing device and any information stored therein is protected against malicious use.

The communication channel is configured to operate in a stand alone mode. That is if the communication channel fails the computing device does not become non responsive and or perform an ungraceful exit.

The communication channel can be used for a variety of purposes. As one example a software developer may develop an Application Programming Interface API and utilize the communication channel for exchanging information via the API with a particular peripheral device .

An example will now be described using the example of the process of . In this example illustrated in a desktop computer will be used as the computing device an LCD monitor will be used as the output device a wireless game controller will be used as a peripheral device and a web based first person shooter FPS game will be used as a web based application .

In step a first link is established between the desktop computer and the web based FPS game . The first link is established when the desktop computer connects via a network to a server which provides access to the web based FPS game .

In step a second link is established between the desktop computer and the wireless game controller . Because the game controller is wireless the second link is a wireless link. In this example the second link is based on Bluetooth technology. That is the wireless game controller and the desktop computer communicate with each other via a Bluetooth link.

In step the first link and the second link are bridged to establish a communication channel between the web based FPS game and the wireless game controller . Once the communication channel is established the web based FPS game and the wireless game controller can exchange information with each other.

In this example the web based FPS game queries the wireless game controller to obtain a feature set of the wireless game controller . The web based FPS game determines that the wireless game controller includes buttons which can be used as a trigger to shoot a weapon within the web based FPS game and motors which can be used to provide feedback e.g. recoil when discharging a weapon .

The user playing the web based FPS game can travel through a virtual world and shoot various targets. For example when the user playing the web based FPS game sees on the monitor a potential target the user can press a button on the wireless game controller to shoot at that potential target. When the user presses the button on the wireless game controller the raw data generated is sent via the communication channel to the web based FPS game . When the button press is received by the web based FPS game the web based FPS game sends a command to actuate a motor within the wireless game controller . The actuation of the motor simulates a recoil effect typically experienced when discharging a firearm. Because of the simulated recoil effect additional realism is added to the web based FPS game which enhances the user s gaming experience.

Computer system e.g. computing device server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor e.g. processor processor coupled with bus for processing information. By way of example the computer system may be implemented with one or more processors . Processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a Programmable Logic Device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable entity that can perform calculations or other manipulations of information.

Computer system can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them stored in an included memory e.g. memory memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM an Erasable PROM EPROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM a DVD or any other suitable storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

The instructions may be stored in the memory and implemented in one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of the computer system and according to any method well known to those of skill in the art including but not limited to computer languages such as data oriented languages e.g. SQL dBase system languages e.g. C Objective C C Assembly architectural languages e.g. Java .NET and application languages e.g. PHP Ruby Perl Python . Instructions may also be implemented in computer languages such as array languages aspect oriented languages assembly languages authoring languages command line interface languages compiled languages concurrent languages curly bracket languages dataflow languages data structured languages declarative languages esoteric languages extension languages fourth generation languages functional languages interactive mode languages interpreted languages iterative languages list based languages little languages logic based languages machine languages macro languages metaprogramming languages multiparadigm languages numerical analysis non English based languages object oriented class based languages object oriented prototype based languages off side rule languages procedural languages reflective languages rule based languages scripting languages stack based languages synchronous languages syntax handling languages visual languages wirth languages embeddable languages and xml based languages. Memory may also be used for storing temporary variable or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor .

A computer program as discussed herein does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules subprograms or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output.

Computer system further includes a data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk coupled to bus for storing information and instructions. Computer system may be coupled via input output module to various devices. The input output module can be any input output module. Examples of input output modules include data ports such as USB ports. The input output module is configured to connect to a communications module . Examples of communications modules e.g. communications module communications module include networking interface cards such as Ethernet cards and modems. In certain aspects the input output module is configured to connect to a plurality of devices such as an input device e.g. input device and or an output device e.g. output device . Examples of input devices include a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which a user can provide input to the computer system . Other kinds of input devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well such as a tactile input device visual input device audio input device or brain computer interface device. For example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech tactile or brain wave input. Examples of output devices include display devices such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure the computing device can be implemented using a computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another machine readable medium such as data storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in memory . In alternative aspects hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. Thus aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Various aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. The communication network e.g. network can include for example any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the communication network can include but is not limited to for example any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network or the like. The communications modules can be for example modems or Ethernet cards.

Computing system can include computing devices e.g. client devices and servers. A computing device e.g. a client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of a computing device e.g. a client device and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. Computer system can be for example and without limitation a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet computer. Computer system can also be embedded in another device for example and without limitation a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a video game console and or a television set top box.

The term machine readable storage medium or computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium or media that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as data storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that include bus . Common forms of machine readable media include for example floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. The machine readable storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of particular implementations of the subject matter. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations of the subject technology can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the aspects described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all aspects and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The subject matter of this specification has been described in terms of particular aspects but other aspects can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

