---

title: Adaptive recommendation explanations
abstract: A method and system for generating adaptive explanations for associated recommendations is disclosed. The adaptive explanations comprise a syntactical structure and associated phrases that are selected in accordance with usage behaviors and/or inferences associated with usage behaviors. The phrases included in an adaptive explanation may be selected through application of a non-deterministic process. The adaptive explanations may be beneficially applied to recommendations that are associated with content, products, and people, including recommendations that comprise advertisements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE045770&OS=RE045770&RS=RE045770
owner: WORLD ASSETS CONSULTING AG, LLC
number: RE045770
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121226
---
This invention relates to methods and systems for computer based generation and adaptation of communications to users over time based on usage behaviors.

Computer based applications in which the user interface includes communications to the user in a natural language e.g. English format have traditionally been non adaptive that is the perceived personality of the computer based application as represented by its communications to the user does not automatically adapt itself to the user over time based on the user s interactions with the computer based application. The inability of a computer based personality to adapt over time also forecloses the possibility of the computer based personality exhibiting the capability of communicating to a user a sense of introspection and self awareness with regard to changes in its personality over time and also limits the effectiveness in conveying a sense of awareness to a user of changes in the behaviors of a user over time. Such static personality approaches of the prior art therefore significantly limit how engaging a computer based application s user interface can be. Thus there is a need for computer based personalities that can adapt to one or more users over time and thereby provide users with the experience of receiving more intelligent and even human like communications from the system.

In accordance with the embodiments described herein a method and system for adaptive computer based personalities including adaptive explanations associated with computer generated recommendations is disclosed that addresses the shortcomings of prior art approaches. The present invention may apply features of adaptive recombinant systems as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 419 554 entitled Adaptive Self Modifying and Recombinant Systems on May 22 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Other features and embodiments will become apparent from the following description from the drawings and from the claims.

In the following description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these details and that numerous variations or modifications from the described embodiments may be possible.

A method and system for adapting computer based personalities including adaptive explanations associated with recommendations as manifested through textual or audio communications is disclosed. In some embodiments a computer based adaptive communication comprises one or more phrases that are automatically selected by a computer based system at least in part through non deterministic means. The frequency distribution of the plurality of potential phrases for selection in a potential adaptive communication is updated based on behaviors of the one or more recipients of a previous communication. Thus the probabilistic selection of phrases included in the adaptive communications and hence the personality of the computer based system is influenced by prior usage behaviors. In some embodiments the computer based personality may also exhibit self awareness by monitoring changes in phrase frequency distributions over time and including in its adaptive communications appropriate self aware phraseology based on an evaluation of the changes in phrase frequency distributions. Awareness phrases associated with changes in user behavior over time may also be expressed in the adaptive communications in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the present invention may apply the methods and systems of an adaptive system as depicted by . is a generalized depiction of an adaptive system according to some embodiments. The adaptive system includes three aspects 1 a structural aspect a usage aspect and a content aspect . One or more users interact with the adaptive system . An adaptive recommendations function may produce adaptive recommendations based upon the user interactions that are either delivered to the user or applied to the adaptive system .

As used herein one or more users may be a single user or multiple users. As shown in the one or more users may receive the adaptive recommendations . Non users of the adaptive system may also receive adaptive recommendations from the adaptive system .

A user may be a human entity a computer system or a second adaptive system distinct from the adaptive system that interacts with or otherwise uses the adaptive system. The one or more users may include non human users of the adaptive system . In particular one or more other adaptive systems may serve as virtual system users. These other adaptive systems may operate in accordance with the architecture of the adaptive system . Thus multiple adaptive systems may be mutual users for one another.

It should be understood that the structural aspect the content aspect the usage aspect and the recommendations function of the adaptive system and elements of each may be contained within one computer or distributed among multiple computers. Furthermore one or more non adaptive systems may be modified to become one or more adaptive systems by integrating the usage aspect and the recommendations function with the one or more non adaptive systems.

The term computer system or the term system without further qualification as used herein will be understood to mean either a non adaptive or an adaptive system. Likewise the terms system structure or system content as used herein will be understood to refer to the structural aspect and the content aspect respectively whether associated with a non adaptive system or the adaptive system . The term system structural subset or structural subset as used herein will be understood to mean a portion or subset of the structural aspect of a system.

The structural aspect of the adaptive system is depicted in the block diagram of . The structural aspect comprises a collection of system objects that are part of the adaptive system as well as the relationships among the objects . The relationships among objects may be persistent across user sessions or may be transient in nature. The objects may include or reference items of content such as text graphics audio video interactive content or embody any other type or item of information. The objects may also include references to content such as pointers. Computer applications executable code or references to computer applications may also be stored as objects in the adaptive system . The content of the objects is known herein as information . The information though part of the object is also considered part of the content aspect as depicted in and described below.

The objects may be managed in a relational database or may be maintained in structures such as flat files linked lists inverted lists hypertext networks or object oriented databases. The objects may include meta information associated with the information contained within or referenced by the objects .

As an example in some embodiments the World wide Web could be considered a structural aspect where web pages constitute the objects of the structural aspect and links between web pages constitute the relationships among the objects. Alternatively or in addition in some embodiments the structural aspect could be comprised of objects associated with an object oriented programming language and the relationships between the objects associated with the protocols and methods associated with interaction and communication among the objects in accordance with the object oriented programming language.

The one or more users of the adaptive system may be explicitly represented as objects within the system therefore becoming directly incorporated within the structural aspect . The relationships among objects may be arranged in a hierarchical structure a relational structure e.g. according to a relational database structure or according to a network structure.

The content aspect of the adaptive system is depicted in the block diagram of . The content aspect comprises the information contained in or referenced by the objects that are part of the structural aspect . The content aspect of the objects may include text graphics audio video and interactive forms of content such as applets tutorials courses demonstrations modules or sections of executable code or computer programs. The one or more users interact with the content aspect .

The content aspect may be updated based on the usage aspect as well as associated metrics. To achieve this the adaptive system may employ the usage aspect of other systems. Such systems may include but are not limited to other computer systems other networks such as the World Wide Web multiple computers within an organization other adaptive systems or other adaptive recombinant systems. In this manner the content aspect benefits from usage occurring in other environments.

The usage aspect of the adaptive system is depicted in the block diagram of although it should be understood that the usage aspect may also exist independently of adaptive system in some embodiments. The usage aspect denotes captured usage information further identified as usage behaviors and usage behavior pre processing . The usage aspect thus reflects the tracking storing categorization and clustering of the use and associated usage behaviors of the one or more users interacting with the adaptive system .

The captured usage information known also as system usage or system use includes any user behavior exhibited by the one or more users while using the system. The adaptive system tracks and stores user key strokes and mouse clicks for example as well as the time period in which these interactions occurred e.g. timestamps as captured usage information . From this captured usage information the adaptive system identifies usage behaviors of the one or more users e.g. web page access or email transmission . Finally the usage aspect includes usage behavior pre processing in which usage behavior categories usage behavior clusters and usage behavioral patterns are formulated for subsequent processing of the usage behaviors by the adaptive system . Some usage behaviors identified by the adaptive system as well as usage behavior categories designated by the adaptive system are listed in Table 1 and described in more detail below.

The usage behavior categories usage behaviors clusters and usage behavior patterns may be interpreted with respect to a single user or to multiple users in which the multiple users may be described herein as a community an affinity group or a user segment. These terms are used interchangeably herein. A community is a collection of one or more users and may include what is commonly referred to as a community of interest. A sub community is also a collection of one or more users in which members of the sub community include a portion of the users in a previously defined community. Communities affinity groups and user segments are described in more detail below.

Usage behavior categories include types of usage behaviors such as accesses referrals to other users collaboration with other users and so on. These categories and more are included in Table 1 below. Usage behavior clusters are groupings of one or more usage behaviors either within a particular usage behavior category or across two or more usage categories. The usage behavior pre processing may also determine new clusterings of user behaviors in previously undefined usage behavior categories across categories or among new communities. Usage behavior patterns also known as usage behavioral patterns or behavioral patterns are also groupings of usage behaviors across usage behavior categories . Usage behavior patterns are generated from one or more filtered clusters of captured usage information .

The usage behavior patterns may also capture and organize captured usage information to retain temporal information associated with usage behaviors . Such temporal information may include the duration or timing of the usage behaviors such as those associated with reading or writing of written or graphical material oral communications including listening and talking or physical location of the user . The usage behavioral patterns may include segmentations and categorizations of usage behaviors corresponding to a single user of the one or more users or according to multiple users e.g. communities or affinity groups . The communities or affinity groups may be previously established or may be generated during usage behavior pre processing based on inferred usage behavior affinities or clustering. Usage behaviors may also be derived from the use or explicit preferences associated with other adaptive or non adaptive systems.

As shown in the adaptive system generates adaptive recommendations using the adaptive recommendations function . The adaptive recommendations or suggestions enable users to more effectively use and navigate through the adaptive system .

The adaptive recommendations are presented as structural subsets of the structural aspect . The adaptive recommendations may be in the context of a currently conducted activity of the system a currently accessed object or a communication with another user . The adaptive recommendations may also be in the context of a historical path of executed system activities accessed objects or communications during a specific user session or across user sessions. The adaptive recommendations may be without context of a current activity currently accessed object current session path or historical session paths. Adaptive recommendations may also be generated in response to direct user requests or queries including search requests. Such user requests may be in the context of a current system navigation access or activity or may be outside of any such context. The adaptive recommendations may comprise advertising content.

In some embodiments the structural aspect of the adaptive system comprises a fuzzy content network. A fuzzy content network is depicted in .

The fuzzy content network including content sub networks a b and c. The content network includes content data or information packaged in modules known as objects .

The content network discretizes information as objects. In contrast to typical procedural computer programming structures objects are defined at a higher level of abstraction. This level of abstraction allows for powerful yet simple software architectures.

One benefit to organizing information as objects is known as encapsulation. An object is encapsulated when only essential elements of interaction with other objects are revealed. Details about how the object works internally may be hidden. In for example the object includes meta information and information . The object thus encapsulates information .

Another benefit to organizing information as objects is known as inheritance. The encapsulation of for example may form discrete object classes with particular characteristics ascribed to each object class. A newly defined object class may inherit some of the characteristics of a parent class. Both encapsulation and inheritance enable a rich set of relationships between objects that may be effectively managed as the number of individual objects and associated object classes grows.

In the content network the objects may be either topic objects t or content objects c as depicted in respectively. Topic objects t are encapsulations that contain meta information t and relationships to other objects not shown but do not contain an embedded pointer to reference associated information. The topic object t thus essentially operates as a label to a class of information. The topic object therefore just refers to itself and the network of relationships it has with other objects .

Content objects c as shown in are encapsulations that contain meta information c and relationships to other objects not shown . Additionally content objects c may include either an embedded pointer to information or the information itself hereinafter information .

The referenced information may include files text documents articles images audio video multi media software applications and electronic or magnetic media or signals. Where the content object c supplies a pointer to information the pointer may be a memory address. Where the content network encapsulates information on the Internet the pointer may be a Uniform Resource Locator URL .

The meta information supplies a summary or abstract of the object . So for example the meta information t for the topic object t may include a high level description of the topic being managed. Examples of meta information t include a title a sub title one or more descriptions of the topic provided at different levels of detail the publisher of the topic meta information the date the topic object t was created and subjective attributes such as the quality and attributes based on user feedback associated with the referenced information. Meta information may also include a pointer to referenced information such as a uniform resource locator URL in one embodiment.

The meta information c for the content object c may include relevant keywords associated with the information a summary of the information and so on. The meta information c may supply a first look at the objects c. The meta information c may include a title a sub title a description of the information the author of the information the publisher of the information the publisher of the meta information c and the date the content object c was created as examples. As with the topic object t meta information for the content object c may also include a pointer.

In the content sub network a is expanded such that both content objects c and topic objects t are visible. The various objects of the content network are interrelated by degrees using relationships unidirectional and bidirectional arrows and relationship indicators values . Each object may be related to any other object and may be related by a relationship indicator as shown. Thus while information is encapsulated in the objects the information is also interrelated to other information by a degree manifested by the relationship indicators .

The relationship indicator is a numerical indicator of the relationship between objects . Thus for example the relationship indicator may be normalized to between 0 and 1 inclusive where 0 indicates no relationship and 1 indicates a subset relationship. Or the relationship indicators may be expressed using subjective descriptors that depict the quality of the relationship. For example subjective descriptors high medium and low may indicate a relationship between two objects .

The relationship between objects may be bidirectional as indicated by the double pointing arrows. Each double pointing arrow includes two relationship indicators one for each direction of the relationships between the objects .

As indicates the relationships between any two objects need not be symmetrical. That is topic object t has a relationship of 0.3 with content object c while content object c has a relationship of 0.5 with topic object t. Furthermore the relationships need not be bi directional they may be in one direction only. This could be designated by a directed arrow or by simply setting one relationship indicator of a bi directional arrow to 0 the null relationship value.

The content networks A B C may be related to one another using relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators . For example in content sub network a is related to content sub network b and content sub network c using relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators . Likewise content sub network b is related to content sub network a and content sub network c using relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators .

Individual content and topic objects within a selected content sub network a may be related to individual content and topic objects in another content sub network b. Further multiple sets of relationships of multiple types and associated relationship indicators may be defined between two objects .

For example a first set of relationships and associated relationship indicators may be used for a first purpose or be available to a first set of users while a second set of relationships and associated relationship indicators may be used for a second purpose or available to a second set of users. For example in topic object t is bi directionally related to topic object t not once but twice as indicated by the two double arrows. An indefinite number of relationships and associated relationship indicators may therefore exist between any two objects in the fuzzy content network . The multiple relationships may correspond to distinct relationship types. For example a relationship type might be the degree an object supports the thesis of a second object while another relationship type might be the degree an object disconfirms the thesis of a second object . The content network may thus be customized for various purposes and accessible to different user groups in distinct ways simultaneously.

The relationships among objects in the content network as well as the relationships between content networks a and b may be modeled after fuzzy set theory. Each object for example may be considered a fuzzy set with respect to all other objects which are also considered fuzzy sets. The relationships among objects are the degrees to which each object belongs to the fuzzy set represented by any other object . Although not essential every object in the content network may conceivably have a relationship with every other object .

The topic objects t encompass and are labels for very broad fuzzy sets of the content network . The topic objects t thus may be labels for the fuzzy set and the fuzzy set may include relationships to other topic objects t as well as related content objects c. Content objects c in contrast typically refer to a narrower domain of information in the content network .

The adaptive system of may operate in a fuzzy content network environment such as the one depicted in . In an adaptive system D includes a structural aspect D that is a fuzzy content network. Thus adaptive recommendations generated by the adaptive system D are also structural subsets that are themselves fuzzy content networks.

Memberships in the communities are not necessarily mutually exclusive as depicted by the overlaps of the sub community A usage patterns sub community B usage patterns and sub community C usage patterns as well as and the individual usage patterns in the usage framework . Recall that a community may include a single user or multiple users. Sub communities may likewise include one or more users. Thus the individual usage patterns in may also be described as representing the usage patterns of a community or a sub community. For the one or more computer based systems usage behavior patterns may be segmented among communities and individuals so as to effectively enable adaptive communications c delivery for each sub community or individual.

The communities identified by the one or more computer based systems may be determined through self selection through explicit designation by other users or external administrators e.g. designation of certain users as experts or through automatic determination by the one or more computer based systems . The communities themselves may have relationships between each other of multiple types and values. In addition a community may be composed not of human users or solely of human users but instead may include one or more other computer based systems which may have reason to interact with the one or more computer based systems . Or such computer based systems may provide an input into the one or more computer based systems such as by being the output from a search engine. The interacting computer based system may be another instance of the one or more computer based systems .

The usage behaviors included in Table 1 may be categorized by the one or more computer based systems according to the usage framework of . For example categories of usage behavior may be captured and categorized according to the entire community usage patterns sub community usage patterns and individual usage patterns . The corresponding usage behavior information may be used to infer preferences and or intentions and interests at each of the user levels.

Multiple usage behavior categories shown in Table 1 may be used by the one or more computer based systems to make reliable inferences of the preferences and or intentions and or intentions of a user with regard to elements objects or items of content associated with the one or more computer based systems . There are likely to be different preference inferencing results for different users.

As shown in the one or more computer based systems delivers adaptive communications to the user . These adaptive communications c may include adaptive recommendations or associated explanations for the recommendations or may be other types of communications to the user including advertising. In some embodiments the adaptive communications c comprise one or more phrases where phrases comprise one or more words. The adaptive communications c may be delivered to the user in a written form an audio form or a combination of these forms.

By introducing different or additional behavioral characteristics such as the duration of access of an item of content a more adaptive communication c is enabled. For example duration of access will generally be much less correlated with navigational proximity than access sequences will be and therefore provide a better indicator of true user preferences and or intentions and or intentions. Therefore combining access sequences and access duration will generally provide better inferences and associated system structural updates than using either usage behavior alone. Effectively utilizing additional usage behaviors as described above will generally enable increasingly effective system structural updating. In addition the one or more computer based systems may employ user affinity groups to enable even more effective system structural updating than are available merely by applying either individual personal usage behaviors or entire community usage behaviors.

Furthermore relying on only one or a limited set of usage behavioral cues and signals may more easily enable potential spoofing or gaming of the one or more computer based systems . Spoofing or gaming the one or more computer based systems refers to conducting consciously insincere or otherwise intentional usage behaviors so as to influence the costs of advertisements of the one or more computer based systems . Utilizing broader sets of system usage behavioral cues and signals may lessen the effects of spoofing or gaming. One or more algorithms may be employed by the one or more computer based systems to detect such contrived usage behaviors and when detected such behaviors may be compensated for by the preference and interest inferencing algorithms of the one or more computer based systems .

In some embodiments the one or more computer based systems may provide users with a means to limit the tracking storing or application of their usage behaviors . A variety of limitation variables may be selected by the user . For example a user may be able to limit usage behavior tracking storing or application by usage behavior category described in Table 1. Alternatively or in addition the selected limitation may be specified to apply only to particular user communities or individual users . For example a user may restrict the application of the full set of her usage behaviors to preference or interest inferences by one or more computer based systems for application to only herself and make a subset of process behaviors available for application to users only within her workgroup but allow none of her process usage behaviors to be applied by the one or more computer based systems in making inferences of preferences and or intentions and or intentions or interests for other users.

As described above a user associated with one or more systems may be a member of one or more communities of interest or affinity groups with a potentially varying degree of affinity associated with the respective communities. These affinities may change over time as interests of the user and communities evolve over time. The affinities or relationships among users and communities may be categorized into specific types. An identified user may be considered a member of a special sub community containing only one member the member being the identified user. A user can therefore be thought of as just a specific case of the more general notion of user or user segments communities or affinity groups.

Sub community B is a community that has many relationships or affinities to other communities. These relationships may be of different types and differing degrees of relevance or affinity. For example a first relationship between sub community B and sub community D may be of one type and a second relationship may be of a second type. In the first relationship is depicted using a double pointing arrow while the second relationship is depicted using a unidirectional arrow. 

The relationships and may be directionally distinct and may have an indicator of relationship or affinity associated with each distinct direction of affinity or relationship. For example the first relationship has a numerical value or relationship value of 0.8. The relationship value thus describes the first relationship between sub community B and sub community D as having a value of 0.8.

The relationship value may be scaled as in e.g. between 0 and 1 or may be scaled according to another interval. The relationship values may also be bounded or unbounded or they may be symbolically represented e.g. high medium low .

The user which could be considered a user community including a single member may also have a number of relationships to other communities where these relationships are of different types directions and relevance. From the perspective of the user these relationship types may take many different forms. Some relationships may be automatically formed by the one or more computer based systems for example based on interests or geographic location or similar traffic usage patterns. Thus for example the entire community may include users in a particular city. Some relationships may be context relative. For example a community to which the user has a relationship could be associated with a certain process and another community could be related to another process. Thus sub community E may be the users associated with a product development business to which the user has a relationship sub community B may be the members of a cross business innovation process to which the user has a relationship sub community D may be experts in a specific domain of product development to which the user has a relationship . The generation of new communities which include the user may be based on the inferred interests of the user or other users within the entire community .

Membership of communities may overlap as indicated by sub communities A and C . The overlap may result when one community is wholly a subset of another community such as between the entire community and sub community B . More generally a community overlap will occur whenever two or more communities contain at least one user or user in common. Such community subsets may be formed automatically by the one or more systems based on preference inferencing from user behaviors . For example a subset of a community may be formed based on an inference of increased interest or demand of particular content or expertise of an associated community. The one or more computer based systems is also capable of inferring that a new community is appropriate. The one or more computer based systems will thus create the new community automatically.

For each user whether residing within say sub community A or residing outside the community such as the user the relationships such as arrows or affinities or relationship values such as numerical indicator and directions of arrows are unique. Accordingly some relationships and specific types of relationships between communities may be unique to each user. Other relationships affinities values and directions may have more general aspects or references that are shared among many users or among all users of the one or more computer based systems . A distinct and unique mapping of relationships between users such as is illustrated in could thus be produced for each user by the one or more computer based systems .

The one or more computer based systems may automatically generate communities or affinity groups based on user behaviors and associated preference inferences. In addition communities may be identified by users such as administrators of the process or sub process instance . Thus the one or more computer based systems utilizes automatically generated and manually generated communities.

The communities affinity groups or user segments aid the one or more computer based systems in matching interests optimally developing learning groups prototyping process designs before adaptation and many other uses. For example some users that use or interact with the one or more computer based systems may receive a preview of a new adaptation of a process for testing and fine tuning prior to other users receiving this change.

The users or communities may be explicitly represented as elements or objects within the one or more computer based systems .

The usage behavior information and inferences function of the one or more computer based systems is depicted in the block diagram of . In embodiments where computer based systems is an adaptive system then usage behavior information and inferences function is equivalent to the usage aspect of . The usage behavior information and inferences function denotes captured usage information further identified as usage behaviors and usage behavior pre processing . The usage behavior information and inferences function thus reflects the tracking storing classification categorization and clustering of the use and associated usage behaviors of the one or more users or users interacting with the one or more computer based systems .

The captured usage information known also as system usage or system use includes any interaction by the one or more users or users with the system or monitored behavior by the one or more users . The one or more computer based systems may track and store user key strokes and mouse clicks for example as well as the time period in which these interactions occurred e.g. timestamps as captured usage information . From this captured usage information the one or more computer based systems identifies usage behaviors of the one or more users e.g. web page access or physical location changes of the user . Finally the usage behavior information and inferences function includes usage behavior pre processing in which usage behavior categories usage behavior clusters and usage behavioral patterns are formulated for subsequent processing of the usage behaviors by the one or more computer based systems . Some usage behaviors identified by the one or more computer based systems as well as usage behavior categories designated by the one or more computer based systems are listed in Table 1 and are described in more detail below.

The usage behavior categories usage behaviors clusters and usage behavior patterns may be interpreted with respect to a single user or to multiple users in which the multiple users may be described herein as a community an affinity group or a user segment. These terms are used interchangeably herein. A community is a collection of one or more users and may include what is commonly referred to as a community of interest. A sub community is also a collection of one or more users in which members of the sub community include a portion of the users in a previously defined community. Communities affinity groups and user segments are described in more detail below.

Usage behavior categories include types of usage behaviors such as accesses referrals to other users collaboration with other users and so on. These categories and more are included in Table 1. Usage behavior clusters are groupings of one or more usage behaviors either within a particular usage behavior category or across two or more usage categories. The usage behavior pre processing may also determine new clusterings of user behaviors in previously undefined usage behavior categories across categories or among new communities. Usage behavior patterns also known as usage behavioral patterns or behavioral patterns are also groupings of usage behaviors across usage behavior categories . Usage behavior patterns are generated from one or more filtered clusters of captured usage information .

The usage behavior patterns may also capture and organize captured usage information to retain temporal information associated with usage behaviors . Such temporal information may include the duration or timing of the usage behaviors such as those associated with reading or writing of written or graphical material oral communications including listening and talking or physical location of the user potentially including environmental aspects of the physical location s . The usage behavioral patterns may include segmentations and categorizations of usage behaviors corresponding to a single user of the one or more users or according to multiple users e.g. communities or affinity groups . The communities or affinity groups may be previously established or may be generated during usage behavior pre processing based on inferred usage behavior affinities or clustering.

In Table 1 a variety of different user behaviors are identified that may be assessed by the one or more computer based systems and categorized. The usage behaviors may be associated with the entire community of users one or more sub communities or with individual users or users of the one of more computer based applications .

A first category of process usage behaviors is known as system navigation and access behaviors. System navigation and access behaviors include usage behaviors such as accesses to and interactions with computer based applications and content such as documents Web pages images videos TV channels audio radio channels multi media interactive content interactive computer applications e commerce applications or any other type of information item or system object. These process usage behaviors may be conducted through use of a keyboard a mouse oral commands or using any other input device. Usage behaviors in the system navigation and access behaviors category may include but are not limited to the viewing or reading of displayed information typing written information interacting with online objects orally or combinations of these forms of interactions with computer based applications. This category includes the explicit searching for information using for example a search engine. The search term may be in the form of a word or phrase to be matched against documents pictures web pages or any other form of on line content. Alternatively the search term may be posed as a question by the user.

System navigation and access behaviors may also include executing transactions including commercial transactions such as the buying or selling of merchandise services or financial instruments. System navigation and access behaviors may include not only individual accesses and interactions but the capture and categorization of sequences of information or system object accesses and interactions over time.

A second category of usage behaviors is known as subscription and self profiling behaviors. Subscriptions may be associated with specific topical areas or other elements of the one or more computer based systems or may be associated with any other subset of the one or more computer based systems . Subscriptions may thus indicate the intensity of interest with regard to elements of the one or more computer based systems . The delivery of information to fulfill subscriptions may occur online such as through electronic mail email on line newsletters XML feeds etc. or through physical delivery of media.

Self profiling refers to other direct persistent unless explicitly changed by the user indications explicitly designated by the one or more users regarding their preferences and or intentions and interests or other meaningful attributes. A user may explicitly identify interests or affiliations such as job function profession or organization and preferences and or intentions such as representative skill level e.g. novice business user advanced . Self profiling enables the one or more computer based systems to infer explicit preferences and or intentions of the user. For example a self profile may contain information on skill levels or relative proficiency in a subject area organizational affiliation or a position held in an organization. A user that is in the role or potential role of a supplier or customer may provide relevant context for effective adaptive e commerce applications through self profiling. For example a potential supplier may include information on products or services offered in his or her profile. Self profiling information may be used to infer preferences and or intentions and interests with regard to system use and associated topical areas and with regard to degree of affinity with other user community subsets. A user may identify preferred methods of information receipt or learning style such as visual or audio as well as relative interest levels in other communities.

A third category of usage behaviors is known as collaborative behaviors. Collaborative behaviors are interactions among the one or more users. Collaborative behaviors may thus provide information on areas of interest and intensity of interest. Interactions including online referrals of elements or subsets of the one or more computer based systems such as through email whether to other users or to non users are types of collaborative behaviors obtained by the one or more computer based systems .

Other examples of collaborative behaviors include but are not limited to online discussion forum activity contributions of content or other types of objects to the one or more computer based systems or any other alterations of the elements objects or relationships among the elements and objects of one or more computer based systems . Collaborative behaviors may also include general user to user communications whether synchronous or asynchronous such as email instant messaging interactive audio communications and discussion forums as well as other user to user communications that can be tracked by the one or more computer based systems .

A fourth category of process usage behaviors is known as reference behaviors. Reference behaviors refer to the marking designating saving or tagging of specific elements or objects of the one or more computer based systems for reference recollection or retrieval at a subsequent time. Tagging may include creating one or more symbolic expressions such as a word or words associated with the corresponding elements or objects of the one or more computer based systems for the purpose of classifying the elements or objects. The saved or tagged elements or objects may be organized in a manner customizable by users. The referenced elements or objects as well as the manner in which they are organized by the one or more users may provide information on inferred interests of the one or more users and the associated intensity of the interests.

A fifth category of process usage behaviors is known as direct feedback behaviors. Direct feedback behaviors include ratings or other indications of perceived quality by individuals of specific elements or objects of the one or more computer based systems or the attributes associated with the corresponding elements or objects. The direct feedback behaviors may therefore reveal the explicit preferences and or intentions of the user. In the one or more computer based systems the advertisements may be rated by users . This enables a direct adaptive feedback loop based on explicit preferences and or intentions specified by the user. Direct feedback also includes user written comments and narratives associated with elements or objects of the computer based system .

A sixth category of process usage behaviors is known as physiological responses. These responses or behaviors are associated with the focus of attention of users and or the intensity of the intention or any other aspects of the physiological responses of one or more users . For example the direction of the visual gaze of one or more users may be determined. This behavior can inform inferences associated with preferences and or intentions or interests even when no physical interaction with the one or more computer based systems is occurring. Even more direct assessment of the level of attention may be conducted through access to the brain patterns or signals associated with the one or more users. Such patterns of brain functions during participation in a process can inform inferences on the preferences and or intentions or interests of users and the intensity of the preferences and or intentions or interests. The brain patterns assessed may include MRI images brain wave patterns relative oxygen use or relative blood flow by one or more regions of the brain.

Physiological responses may include any other type of physiological response of a user that may be relevant for making preference or interest inferences independently or collectively with the other usage behavior categories. Other physiological responses may include but are not limited to utterances gestures movements or body position. Attention behaviors may also include other physiological responses such as breathing rate heart rate blood pressure or galvanic response.

A seventh category of process usage behaviors is known as environmental conditions and physical location behaviors. Physical location behaviors identify physical location and mobility behaviors of users. The location of a user may be inferred from for example information associated with a Global Positioning System or any other positionally or locationally aware system or device or may be inferred directly from location information input by a user e.g. a zip code or street address or otherwise acquired by the computer based systems . The physical location of physical objects referenced by elements or objects of one or more computer based systems may be stored for future reference. Proximity of a user to a second user or to physical objects referenced by elements or objects of the computer based application may be inferred. The length of time or duration at which one or more users reside in a particular location may be used to infer intensity of interests associated with the particular location or associated with objects that have a relationship to the physical location. Derivative mobility inferences may be made from location and time data such as the direction of the user the speed between locations or the current speed the likely mode of transportation used and the like. These derivative mobility inferences may be made in conjunction with geographic contextual information or systems such as through interaction with digital maps or map based computer systems. Environmental conditions may include the time of day the weather lighting levels sound levels and any other condition of the environment around the one or more users .

In addition to the usage behavior categories depicted in Table 1 usage behaviors may be categorized over time and across user behavioral categories. Temporal patterns may be associated with each of the usage behavioral categories. Temporal patterns associated with each of the categories may be tracked and stored by the one or more computer based systems . The temporal patterns may include historical patterns including how recently an element object or item of content associated with one or more computer based systems . For example more recent behaviors may be inferred to indicate more intense current interest than less recent behaviors.

Another temporal pattern that may be tracked and contribute to preference inferences that are derived is the duration associated with the access or interaction with the elements objects or items of content of the one or more computer based systems or the user s physical proximity to physical objects referenced by system objects of the one or more computer based systems or the user s physical proximity to other users. For example longer durations may generally be inferred to indicate greater interest than short durations. In addition trends over time of the behavior patterns may be captured to enable more effective inference of interests and relevancy. Since delivered recommendations may include one or more elements objects or items of content of the one or more computer based systems the usage pattern types and preference inferencing may also apply to interactions of the one or more users with the delivered recommendations themselves including accesses of or interactions with explanatory information regarding the logic or rationale that the one more computer based systems used in deciding to deliver the recommendation to the user.

In some embodiments adaptive communications c or recommendations may be generated for the one or more users through the application of affinity vectors.

For example in some embodiments Member Topic Affinity Vectors MTAV may be generated to support effective recommendations wherein for a registered user or member of the one or more computer based systems a vector is established that indicates the relative affinity normalized to the 0 1 continuum the member has for every object sub network the member has access to. For computer based systems comprising a fuzzy content network based structural aspect the member affinity values of the MTAV may be in respect to topic networks.

So in general for each registered member e.g. member M a hypothetical MTAV could be of a form as follows 

The MTAV will therefore reflect the relative interests of a user with regard to all N of the accessible topics. This type of vector can be applied in two major ways 

To generate the MTAV any of the behaviors of Table 1 may be utilized. For example in some embodiments the following example behavioral information may be used 

This behavioral information is listed above in a generally reverse order of importance from the standpoint of inferring member interests that is access information gathered over a significant number of accesses or over a significant period of time will generally provide better information than subscription information and save information is typically more informative of interests than just accesses.

Personal topics that are not shared with other users may be included in MTAV calculations. Personal topics that have not been made publicly cannot be subscribed to by other members and so could in this regard be unfairly penalized versus public topics. Therefore for the member who created the personal topic and co owners of that personal topic in some embodiments the subscription vector to may be set to True i.e. 1. There may exist personal topics that are created by a member and that have never been seen or contributed to by any other member. This may not otherwise affect the recommendations since the objects within that personal topic may be accessible by other members and any other relationships these objects have to other topics will be counted toward accesses of these other topics.

In some embodiments the first step of the calculation is to use information 1 4 above to generate the following table or set of vectors for the member as depicted in the following hypothetical example 

The Subscriptions vector of Table 2 contains either a 1 if the member has subscribed to a topic or is the owner co owner of a personal topic or a 0 if the member has not subscribed to the topic. The Topic Accesses vector contains the number of accesses to that topic s explore page by the member to a topic over a period of time for example the preceding 12 months.

The Weighted Accesses vector of Table 1 contains the number of the member s Member 1 accesses over the last 12 months of each object multiplied by the relevancies to each topic summed across all accessed objects. So for example if Object 1 has been accessed 10 times in the last 12 months by Member 1 and it is related to Topic 1 by 0.8 and Object 2 has been accessed 4 times in the last 12 months by Member 1 and is related to Topic 1 at relevancy level 0.3 and these are the only objects accessed by Member 1 that are related to Topic 1 then Topic 1 would contain the value 10 0.8 4 0.3 9.2 .

The Weighted Saves vector of Table 1 works the same way as the Weighted Accesses vector except it is based on Member 1 s object save data instead of access data.

In some embodiments topic object saves are counted in addition to content object saves. Since a member saving a topic typically is a better indicator of the member s interest in the topic than just saving an object related to the said topic it may be appropriate to give more credit for topic saves than just content object saves. For example when a user saves a topic object the following process may be applied 

If the Subscriptions vector indicator is not already set to 1 for this topic in Table 1 it is set to 1 . The advantage of this is even if the topic has been saved before 12 months ago the user will still at least get subscription credit for the topic save even if they don t get credit for the next two calculations .

In exactly the same way as a saved content object a credit is applied in the Weighted Accesses vector of Table 2 based on the relevancies of other topics to the saved topic.

A special bonus weighting in the Weighted Accesses vector of Table 2 for the topic itself using the weighting of 10 which means a topic save is worth at least as much as 10 saves of content that are highly related to that topic.

The next step is to make some adjustments to Table 1. For example it may be desirable scale the Weighted Accesses and Weighted Saves vectors by the number of objects that is related to each topic. The result is the number of accesses or saves per object per topic. This may be a better indicator of intensity of interest because it is not biased against topics with few related objects. However per object accesses saves alone could give misleading results when there are very few accesses or saves. So as a compromise the formula that is applied to each topic e.g. Topic N may be a variation of the following Weighted Accesses for Topic N Objects related to Topic N Square Root Weighted Accesses for Topic N This formula emphasizes per object accesses but tempers this with a square root factor associated with the absolute level of accesses by the member. The result is a table Table 2A of the form 

The next step is to transform Table 2A into a MTAV. In some embodiments indexing factors such as the following may be applied 

These factors have the effect of ensuring normalized MTAV values ranges e.g. 0 1 or 0 100 and they enable more emphasis on behaviors that are likely to provide relatively better information on member interests. In some embodiments the calculations for each vector of Table 1A are transformed into corresponding Table 2 vectors as follows 

Member to member affinities can be derived by comparing the MTAV s of a first member and a second member . Statistical operators such as correlation coefficients may be applied to derive a sense of the distance between members in n dimensional topic affinity space where there N topics. Since different users may have access to different topics the statistical correlation for a pair of members must be applied against MTAV subsets that contain only the topics that both members have access to. In this way a member to member affinity vector MMAV can be generated for each member or user and the most similar members the least similar members etc. can be identified for each member .

With the MTAV s and MMAV s and Most Similar Member information a set of candidate objects to be recommended can be generated. These candidate recommendations will in a later processing step be ranked and the highest ranked to candidate recommendations will be delivered to the recommendation recipient. Recall that recommendations may be in context of navigating the system or out of context of navigating the system . Following are more details on an exemplary set of steps related to generating out of context recommendations. At each of step the candidate objects may be assessed against rejection criteria for example the recommendation recipient has already recently received the candidate object may be a cause for immediate rejection and against a maximum number of candidate objects to be considered.

A variation of the out of context recommendation process may be applied for in context recommendations where the process places more emphasis of the closeness of the objects to the object being viewed in generating candidate recommendation objects.

For both out of context and in context recommendations a ranking process may be applied to the set of candidate objects according to some embodiments. The following is an exemplary set of input information that may be used to calculate rankings.

A ranking is then developed based on applying a mathematical function to some or all or input items listed directly above and or other inputs not listed above. In some embodiments user or administrator adjustable weighting factors may be applied to the raw input values to tune the object ranking appropriately. These recommendation preference settings may be established directly by the user and remain persistent across sessions until updated by the user in some embodiments.

Some example weighting factors that can be applied dynamically by a user or administrator are as follows 

These weighting factors could take any value but might be typically in the 0 5 range and could be applied to associated ranking categories to give the category disproportionate weightings versus other categories. They can provide control over how important change in popularity freshness of content and an object s affinity with the member s MTAV are in ranking the candidate objects.

The values of the weighting factors are combined with the raw input information associated with an object to generate a rating score for each candidate object. The objects can then be ranked by their scores and the highest scoring set of X objects where X is a defined maximum number of recommended objects can be selected for deliver to a recommendation recipient . In some embodiments scoring thresholds may be set and used in addition to just relative ranking of the candidate objects. The scores of the one or more recommended objects may also be used by the computer based system to provide to the recommendation recipient a sense of confidence in the recommendation. Higher scores would warrant more confidence in the recommendation of an object than would lower scores.

In addition to delivering a recommendation for an object the computer based application may deliver a corresponding explanation c of why the object was recommended. This can be very valuable to the recommendation recipient because it may give the recipient a better sense of whether to bother to read or listen to the recommended content without committing significant amount of time. For recommendations that comprise advertising content the explanation may enhance the persuasiveness of the ad.

In some embodiments variations of the ranking factors may be applied in triggering explanatory phrases. For example the following table illustrates how the ranking information can be applied to determine both positive and negative factors that can be incorporated within the recommendation explanations. Note that the Ranking Value Range is the indexed attribute values before multiplying by special scaling factors Ranking Category Weighting Factors such as the What s Hot factor etc.

Step 1 First Positive Ranking Category subtract the 1Positive Threshold column from the Transformed Range column and find the maximum number of the resulting vector may be negative . The associated Ranking Category will be highlighted in the recommendation explanation.

Step 2 Second Positive Ranking Category subtract the 2Positive Threshold column from the Transformed Range column and find the maximum number of the resulting vector. If the maximum number is non negative and it is not the ranking category we already selected then include this second ranking category in the recommendation explanation.

Step 3 First Negative Ranking Category subtract the Negative Threshold column from the Transformed Range column and find the minimum number of the resulting vector. If the minimum number is non positive this ranking category will be included in the recommendation explanation as a caveat otherwise there will be no caveats.

Although two positive and one negative thresholds are illustrated in this example and unlimited number of positive and negative thresholds may be applied as required for best results.

In some embodiments explanations are assembled from component phrases and delivered based on a syntax template or function. Following is an example syntax that guides the assembly of an in context recommendation explanation. In the syntactical structure below phrases within are optional depending on the associated logic and calculations and means concatenating the text strings. Other detailed syntactical logic such as handling capitalization is not shown in this simple illustrative example. Awareness Phrase if any Sequence Number Phrase if any Positive Conjunction 1Positive Ranking Category Phrase Positive Conjunction 2Positive Ranking Category Phrase if any Negative Conjunction Negative Ranking Category Phrase if any Suggestion Phrase if any 

The following section provides some examples of phrase tables or arrays that may be used as a basis for selecting appropriate phrases for a recommendation explanation syntax. Note that in the following tables when there are multiple phrase choices they are selected probabilistically. NULL means that a blank phrase will be applied. indicates that this text string is a variable that can take different values.

The above phrase array examples are simplified examples to illustrate the approach. In practice multiple syntax templates accessing different phrase arrays with each phrase array many different phrases and phrase variations are required to give the feel of human like explanations.

As mentioned above a sense of confidence of the recommendation to the recommendation recipient can also be communicated within the recommendation explanation. The score level may contribute to the confidence level but some other general factors may be applied including the amount of usage history available for the recommendation recipient on which to base preference inferences and or the inferred similarity of the user with one or more other users for which there is a basis for more confident inferences of interests or preferences.

Recommendation explanations are one type of behavioral based communications c that the one or more computer based applications may deliver to users . Other types of adaptive communications c may be delivered to a user without necessarily being in conjunction with the recommendation of an object or item of content. For example a general update of the activities of other users and or other trends or activities related to people or content may be communicated.

Adaptive communications c may also comprise one or more phrases that communicate an awareness of behavioral changes in the user over time and inferences thereof. These behavioral changes may be derived at least in part from an evaluation of changes in the user s MTAV affinity values over time. In some cases these behavioral patterns may be quite subtle and may otherwise go unnoticed by the user if not pointed out by the computer based system . Furthermore the one or more computer based systems may infer changes in interests or preferences of the user based on changes in the user s behaviors over time. The communications c of these inferences may therefore provide the user with useful insights into changes in his interest preferences and tastes over time. This same approach can also be applied by the one or more computer based systems to deliver insights into the changes in interests preferences and tastes associated with any user to another user . These insights packaged in an engaging communications c can simulate what is sometimes referred to as a theory of mind in psychology.

The adaptive communications c in general may apply a syntactical structure and associated probabilistic phrase arrays to generate the adaptive communications in a manner similar to the approach described above to generate explanations for recommendations. The phrase tendencies of the adaptive communications c over a number of generated communications can be said to constitute a personality associated with the one or more computer based applications . The next section describes how in some embodiments of the present invention the personality can evolve and adapt over time based at least in part on the behaviors of the communication recipients .

In accordance with the syntactical structure that is determined for the communication one or more phrases are probabilistically selected based on frequency distributions associated with an ensemble of phrases to generate a communication to the user.

User behaviors which may include those described by Table 1 herein are then evaluated after receipt of the user communication. Based at least in part on these evaluations the frequency distributions of one or more phrases that may be selected for future user communications are then updated . For example if the user communication c is an the explanation associated with an adaptive recommendation and it is determined that the recommendation recipient reads the corresponding recommended item of content then the relative frequency of selection of the one or more phrases comprising the explanation of the adaptive recommendation might be preferentially increased versus other phrases that we not included in the user communication. Alternatively if the communication c elicited one or more behaviors from the communication recipient that were indicative of indifference or a less than positive reaction then the relative frequency of selection of the one or more phrases comprising the communication might be preferentially decreased versus other phrases that we not included in the user communication.

In an illustrative data structure supporting the adaptive personality process according to some embodiments is shown. The data structure may include a designator for a specific phrase array . A phrase array may correspond to a specific unit of the syntax of an overall user communication. Each phrase array may contain one or more phrases indicated by a specific phrase ID . Associated with each phrase is a selection frequency distribution indicator . In the illustrative data structure this selection frequency distribution of phrases in a phrase array is based on the relative magnitude of the value of the frequency distribution indicator. In other embodiments other ways to provide selection frequency distributions may be applied. For example phrases may be selected per a uniform distribution across phrase instances in a phrase array and duplication of phrase instances may be used to as a means to adjust selection frequencies.

Returning to in some embodiments phrase attributes that are associated with specific phrases may be used as a basis for self aware phrase selection. Two example phrase attributes whose values are associated with specific phrases are shown. An unlimited number of attributes could be used as to provide as nuanced a level of self awareness as desired.

When changes in phrase frequency distributions are evaluated the corresponding attributes are also evaluated. These attributes map to attributes that are associated with self aware phrases in self aware phrase data structure . For example if phrases that have the attribute value humorous have been increasing in frequency then self aware phrases that reference humorous may be appropriate to include in generating a communication of self awareness c to a user . As is the case of any other communication c the behaviors of the recipient of the communication may be evaluated and the self aware phrase frequency distributions of the self aware phrases may be updated accordingly. This recursive evaluation and updating of phrase frequency distributions can be applied without limit.

A request for a communication to a user is made. The request may be a direct request from a user or the request may be made by another function of the computer based system . In some embodiments the request for a communication to the user may be initiated by a function that generates an adaptive recommendation. A communication to the user is then generated . This generation is done by first determining the appropriate syntactical rules or structure for the communication. In some embodiments the syntax rules are of an If some condition Then apply a specific phrase array structure. Once the appropriate syntax is established and associated phrase arrays are determined specific phrases are probabilistically retrieved from the phrase array function based on selection frequency distributions associated with the corresponding phrase arrays. The communication c is then assembled and delivered to a user .

User behaviors of the communication recipient are then monitored . Based on inferences from these behaviors the phrase array frequency distributions of the phrase array function are updated appropriately.

Servers and are shown perhaps residing at different physical locations and potentially belonging to different organizations or individuals. A standard PC workstation is connected to the server in a contemporary fashion potentially through the Internet. It should be understood that the workstation can represent any computer based device mobile or fixed including a set top box. In this instance the one or more computer based applications in part or as a whole may reside on the server but may be accessed by the workstation . A terminal or display only device and a workstation setup are also shown. The PC workstation or servers may be connected to a portable processing device not shown such as a mobile telephony device which may be a mobile phone or a personal digital assistant PDA . The mobile telephony device or PDA may in turn be connected to another wireless device such as a telephone or a GPS receiver.

Computing system represents a PC or other computing system which connects through a gateway or other host in order to access the server on which the one or more computer based applications in part or as a whole reside. An appliance includes software hardwired into a physical device or may utilize software running on another system that does not itself the one or more computer based applications . The appliance is able to access a computing system that hosts an instance of one of the relevant systems such as the server and is able to interact with the instance of the system.

While the present invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations therefrom. It is intended that the appended claims cover all such modifications and variations as fall within the scope of this present invention.

