---

title: Apoptosis-inducing agents for the treatment of cancer and immune and autoimmune diseases
abstract: Disclosed are compounds which inhibit the activity of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins, compositions containing the compounds and methods of treating diseases during which is expressed anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08343967&OS=08343967&RS=08343967
owner: Abbott Laboratories
number: 08343967
owner_city: Abbott Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120427
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 049 569 filed on Mar. 16 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 188 077 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 317 575 filed on Mar. 25 2010 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention pertains to compounds which inhibit the activity of Bcl 2 anti apoptotic proteins compositions containing the compounds and methods of treating diseases during which anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins are expressed.

Anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins are associated with a number of diseases. There is therefore an existing need in the therapeutic arts for compounds which inhibit the activity of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins.

Overexpression of Bcl 2 proteins correlates with resistance to chemotherapy clinical outcome disease progression overall prognosis or a combination thereof in various cancers and disorders of the immune system.

Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer prostate cancer small cell lung cancer spleen cancer and the like is described in commonly owned PCT US 2004 36770 published as WO 2005 049593 and PCT US 2004 37911 published as WO 2005 024636.

Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in immune and autoimmunc diseases is described in 2003 3 378 3842000 110 3 584 902000 95 4 1283 92 and 2004 351 14 1409 1418. Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in arthritis is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 988 479. Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in bone marrow transplant rejection is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 941 196.

One embodiment of this invention pertains to compounds or therapeutically acceptable salts prodrugs metabolites or salts of prodrugs thereof which are useful as inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins the compounds chosen from

Another embodiment pertains to a composition for treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer said composition comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention.

Another embodiment pertains to a method of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said method comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention.

Another embodiment pertains to a method of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said method comprising administering to the patient therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Variable moieties herein are represented by identifiers capital letters with numerical and or alphabetical superscripts and may be specifically embodied.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all moieties and combinations thereof that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are drawn from left to right and are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are also drawn from left to right.

It is also meant to be understood that a specific embodiment of a variable moiety herein may be the same or different as another specific embodiment having the same identifier.

The term alkenyl as used herein means a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing from 2 to 10 carbons and containing at least one carbon carbon double bond. The term C Calkyl means a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing at least one carbon carbon double bond containing x to y carbon atoms. The term C Calkenyl means an alkenyl group containing 2 4 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to buta 2 3 dienyl ethenyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl 4 pentenyl 5 hexenyl 2 heptenyl 2 methyl 1 heptenyl and 3 decenyl.

The term alkenylene means a divalent group derived from a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon of 2 to 4 carbon atoms and contains at least one carbon carbon double bond. The term C Calkylene means a a divalent group derived from a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain containing at least one carbon carbon double bond and containing x to y carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkenylene include but are not limited to CH CH and CHCH CH .

The term alkyl as used herein means a straight or branched saturated hydrocarbon chain containing from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The term C Calkyl means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing x to y carbon atoms. For example C Calkyl means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 2 to 10 carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl n hexyl 3 methylhexyl 2 2 dimethylpentyl 2 3 dimethylpentyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl and n decyl.

The term alkylene means a divalent group derived from a straight or branched saturated hydrocarbon chain of 1 to 10 carbon atoms for example of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The term C Calkylene means a divalent group derived from a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing x to y carbon atoms. For example C Calkylene means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Examples of alkylene include but are not limited to CH CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH and CHCH CH CH .

The term alkynyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond. The term C Calkynyl means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group containing from x to y carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkynyl include but are not limited to acetylenyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 3 butynyl 2 pentynyl and 1 butynyl.

The term alkynylene as used herein means a divalent radical derived from a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond.

The term cyclic moiety as used herein means benzene phenyl phenylene cycloalkane cycloalkyl cycloalkylene cycloalkene cycloalkenyl cycloalkenylene cycloalkyne cycloalkynyl cycloalkynylene heteroarene heteroaryl heterocycloalkane heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkene heterocycloalkenyl and spiroalkyl.

The term cycloalkylene or cycloalkyl or cycloalkane as used herein means a monocyclic or bridged hydrocarbon ring system. The monocyclic cycloalkyl is a carbocyclic ring system containing three to eight carbon atoms zero heteroatoms and zero double bonds. Examples of monocyclic ring systems include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. The monocyclic ring may contain one or two alkylene bridges each consisting of one two or three carbon atoms each linking two non adjacent carbon atoms of the ring system. Non limiting examples of such bridged cycloalkyl ring systems include bicyclo 3.1.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane bicyclo 3.3.1 nonane bicyclo 4.2.1 nonane tricyclo 3.3.1.0 nonane octahydro 2 5 methanopentalene or noradamantane and tricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane adamantane . The monocyclic and bridged cycloalkyl can be attached to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable atom contained within the ring system.

The term cycloalkenylene or cycloalkenyl or cycloalkene as used herein means a monocyclic or a bridged hydrocarbon ring system. The monocyclic cycloalkenyl has four five six seven or eight carbon atoms and zero heteroatoms. The four membered ring systems have one double bond the five or six membered ring systems have one or two double bonds and the seven or eight membered ring systems have one two or three double bonds. Representative examples of monocyclic cycloalkenyl groups include but are not limited to cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cycloheptenyl and cyclooctenyl. The monocyclic cycloalkenyl ring may contain one or two alkylene bridges each consisting of one two or three carbon atoms each linking two non adjacent carbon atoms of the ring system. Representative examples of the bicyclic cycloalkenyl groups include but are not limited to 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 3aH indene octahydronaphthalenyl and 1 6 dihydro pentalene. The monocyclic and bicyclic cycloalkenyl can be attached to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable atom contained within the ring systems.

The term cycloalkyne or cycloalkynyl or cycloalkynylene as used herein means a monocyclic or a bridged hydrocarbon ring system. The monocyclic cycloalkynyl has eight or more carbon atoms zero heteroatoms and one or more triple bonds. The monocyclic cycloalkynyl ring may contain one or two alkylene bridges each consisting of one two or three carbon atoms each linking two non adjacent carbon atoms of the ring system. The monocyclic and bridged cycloalkynyl can be attached to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable atom contained within the ring systems.

The term heteroarene or heteroaryl or heteroarylene as used herein means a five membered or six membered aromatic ring having at least one carbon atom and one or more than one independently selected nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom. The heteroarenes of this invention are connected through any adjacent atoms in the ring provided that proper valences are maintained. Representative examples of heteroaryl include but are not limited to furanyl including but not limited thereto furan 2 yl imidazolyl including but not limited thereto 1H imidazol 1 yl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyridinyl e.g. pyridin 4 yl pyridin 2 yl pyridin 3 yl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl including but not limited thereto thien 2 yl thien 3 yl triazolyl and triazinyl.

The term heterocycloalkane or heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkylene as used herein means monocyclic or bridged three four five six seven or eight membered ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S and zero double bonds. The monocyclic and bridged heterocycloalkane are connected to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atom or any substitutable nitrogen atom contained within the rings. The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms in the heterocycle rings may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen atoms may optionally be quarternized. Representative examples of heterocycloalkane groups include but are not limited to Representative examples of heterocycloalkane groups include but are not limited to morpholinyl tetrahydropyranyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl dioxolanyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiomorpholinyl dioxanyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl oxetanyl piperazinyl imidazolidinyl azetidine azepanyl aziridinyl diazepanyl dithiolanyl dithianyl isoxazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl oxadiazolidinyl oxazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl tetrahydrothienyl thiadiazolidinyl thiazolidinyl thiomorpholinyl trithianyl and trithianyl.

The term heterocycloalkene or heterocycloalkenyl or heterocycloalkenylene as used herein means monocyclic or bridged three four five six seven or eight membered ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S and one or more double bonds. The monocyclic and bridged heterocycloalkene are connected to the parent molecular moiety through any substitutable carbon atom or any substitutable nitrogen atom contained within the rings. The nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms in the heterocycle rings may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen atoms may optionally be quarternized. Representative examples of heterocycloalkene groups include but are not limited to tetrahydrooxocinyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydropyridazinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl dihydropyranyl imidazolinyl isothiazolinyl oxadiazolinyl isoxazolinyl oxazolinyl pyranyl pyrazolinyl pyrrolinyl thiadiazolinyl thiazolinyl and thiopyranyl.

The term phenylene as used herein means a divalent radical formed by removal of a hydrogen atom from phenyl.

The term spiroalkyl as used herein means alkylene both ends of which are attached to the same carbon atom and is exemplified by C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl and the like.

The term spiroheteroalkyl as used herein means spiroalkyl having one or two CHmoieties replaced with independently selected O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH and one or two CH moieties unreplaced or replaced with N.

The term spiroheteroalkenyl as used herein means spiroalkenyl having one or two CRmoieties replaced with independently selected O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH and one or two CH moieties unreplaced or replaced with N and also means spiroalkenyl having one or two CHmoieties unreplaced or replaced with independently selected O C O CNOH CNOCH S S O SOor NH and one or two CH moieties replaced with N.

The term spirocyclo as used herein means two substituents on the same carbon atom that together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkane heterocycloalkane cycloalkene or heterocycloalkene ring.

The term C C spiroalkyl as used herein means C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl C spiroalkyl and C spiroalkyl.

The term C spiroalkyl as used herein means eth 1 2 ylene both ends of which replace hydrogen atoms of the same CHmoiety.

The term C spiroalkyl as used herein means prop 1 3 ylene both ends of which replace hydrogen atoms of the same CHmoiety.

The term C spiroalkyl as used herein means but 1 4 ylene both ends of which replace hydrogen atoms of the same CHmoiety.

The term C spiroalkyl as used herein means pent 1 5 ylene both ends of which replace hydrogen atoms of the same CHmoiety.

The term C spiroalkyl as used herein means hex 1 6 ylene both ends of which replace hydrogen atoms of the same CHmoiety.

The term NH protecting group as used herein means a substituent that protects NH groups against undesirable reactions during synthetic procedures. Examples of NH protecting groups include but are not limited to trichloroethoxycarbonyl tribromoethoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl para nitrobenzylcarbonyl ortho bromobenzyloxycarbonyl chloroacetyl dichloroacetyl trichloroacetyl trifluoroacetyl phenylacetyl formyl acetyl benzoyl tert amyloxycarbonyl tert butoxycarbonyl para methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl oxycarbonyl 4 phenylazo benzyloxycarbonyl 2 furfuryl oxycarbonyl diphenylmethoxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethylpropoxy carbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl phthaloyl succinyl alanyl leucyl 1 adamantyloxycarbonyl 8 quinolyloxycarbonyl benzyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl 2 nitrophenylthio methanesulfonyl para toluencsulfonyl N N dimethylaminomethylene benzylidene 2 hydroxybenzylidene 2 hydroxy 5 chlorobenzylidene 2 hydroxy 1 naphthyl methylene 3 hydroxy 4 pyridylmethylene cyclohexylidene 2 ethoxycarbonylcyclohexylidene 2 ethoxycarbonylcyclopentylidene 2 acetylcyclohexylidene 3 3 dimethyl 5 oxycyclo hexylidene diphenylphosphoryl dibenzylphosphoryl 5 methyl 2 oxo 2H 1 3 dioxol 4 yl methyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl and triphenylsilyl.

The term C O OH protecting group as used herein means a substituent that protects C O OH groups against undesirable reactions during synthetic procedures. Examples of C O OH protecting groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl 1 1 dimethylpropyl n butyl tert butyl phenyl naphthyl benzyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl para nitrobenzyl para methoxybenzyl bis para methoxyphenyl methyl acetylmethyl benzoylmethyl para nitrobenzoylmethyl para bromobenzoylmethyl para methanesulfonylbenzoylmethyl 2 tetrahydropyranyl 2 tetrahydrofuranyl 2 2 2 tri chloro ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl acetoxymethyl propionyloxymethyl pivaloyloxymethyl phthalimidomethyl succinimidomethyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl methoxymethyl methoxyethoxymethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl benzyloxymethyl methylthiomethyl 2 methylthioethyl phenylthiomethyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl 3 methyl 3 butenyl allyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl diethylisopropylsilyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethylsilyl and tert butylmethoxyphenylsilyl.

The term OH or SH protecting group as used herein means a substituent that protects OH or SH groups against undesirable reactions during synthetic procedures. Examples of OH or SH protecting groups include but are not limited to benzyloxycarbonyl 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 4 bromobenzyloxycarbonyl 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl tert butoxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethylpropoxycarbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl isobutyloxycarbonyl diphenylmethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 tribromoethoxycarbonyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 phenylsulfonyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 triphenylphosphonio ethoxycarbonyl 2 furfuryloxycarbonyl 1 adamantyloxycarbonyl vinyloxycarbonyl allyloxycarbonyl S benzylthiocarbonyl 4 ethoxy 1 naphthyloxycarbonyl 8 quinolyloxycarbonyl acetyl formyl chloroacetyl dichloroacetyl trichloroacetyl trifluoroacetyl methoxyacetyl phenoxyacetyl pivaloyl benzoyl methyl tert butyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl 3 methyl 3 butenyl allyl benzyl phenylmethyl para methoxybenzyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl diphenylmethyl triphenylmethyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl methoxymethyl methylthiomethyl benzyloxymethyl 2 methoxyethoxymethyl 2 2 2 trichloro ethoxymethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 1 ethoxyethyl methanesulfonyl para toluenesulfonyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl diethylisopropylsilyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tort butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethylsilyl and tort butylmethoxyphenylsilyl.

For a review of protecting groups in organic synthesis see Greene T. W. Wuts P. G. M. 4th ed. Wiley Interscience New York 2006.

Geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. Compounds of this invention may contain carbon carbon double bonds or carbon nitrogen double bonds in the E or Z configuration wherein the term E represents higher order substituents on opposite sides of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond and the term Z represents higher order substituents on the same side of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond as determined by the Cahn Ingold Prelog Priority Rules. The compounds of this invention may also exist as a mixture of E and Z isomers. Substituents around a cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl are designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Compounds of this invention may contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms in the R or S configuration in which the terms R and S are as defined by the IUPAC 1974 Recommendations for Section E Fundamental Stereochemistry Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 10. Compounds having asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms with equal amounts of R and S configurations are racemic at those carbon atoms. Atoms with an excess of one configuration over the other are assigned the configuration present in the higher amount preferably an excess of about 85 90 more preferably an excess of about 95 99 and still more preferably an excess greater than about 99 . Accordingly this invention includes racemic mixtures relative and absolute stereoisomers and mixtures of relative and absolute stereoisomers.

Compounds of this invention containing NH C O OH OH or SH moieties may have attached thereto prodrug forming moieties. The prodrug forming moieties are removed by metabolic processes and release the compounds having the freed hydroxyl amino or carboxylic acid in vivo. Prodrugs are useful for adjusting such pharmacokinetic properties of the compounds as solubility and or hydrophobicity absorption in the gastrointestinal tract bioavailability tissue penetration and rate of clearance.

Compounds of the invention can exist in isotope labeled or enriched form containing one or more atoms having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number most abundantly found in nature. Isotopes can be radioactive or non radioactive isotopes. Isotopes of atoms such as hydrogen carbon phosphorous sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine include but are not limited to H H C C N O P S F Cl and I. Compounds that contain other isotopes of these and or other atoms are within the scope of this invention.

In another embodiment the isotope labeled compounds contain deuterium H tritium H or C isotopes. Isotope labeled compounds of this invention can be prepared by the general methods well known to persons having ordinary skill in the art. Such isotope labeled compounds can be conveniently prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Examples disclosed herein and Schemes by substituting a readily available isotope labeled reagent for a non labeled reagent. In some instances compounds may be treated with isotope labeled reagents to exchange a normal atom with its isotope for example hydrogen for deuterium can be exchanged by the action of a deuteric acid such as DSO DO. In addition to the above relevant procedures and intermediates are disclosed for instance in Lizondo J et al. 21 11 1116 1996 Brickner S J et al. 39 3 673 1996 Mallesham B et al. 5 7 963 2003 PCT publications WO1997010223 WO2005099353 WO1995007271 WO2006008754 U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 538 189 7 534 814 7 531 685 7 528 131 7 521 421 7 514 068 7 511 013 and US Patent Application Publication Nos. 20090137457 20090131485 20090131363 20090118238 20090111840 20090105338 20090105307 20090105147 20090093422 20090088416 and 20090082471 the methods are hereby incorporated by reference.

The isotope labeled compounds of the invention may be used as standards to determine the effectiveness of Bcl 2 inhibitors in binding assays. Isotope containing compounds have been used in pharmaceutical research to investigate the in vivo metabolic fate of the compounds by evaluation of the mechanism of action and metabolic pathway of the nonisotope labeled parent compound Blake et al. 64 3 367 391 1975 . Such metabolic studies are important in the design of safe effective therapeutic drugs either because the in vivo active compound administered to the patient or because the metabolites produced from the parent compound prove to be toxic or carcinogenic Foster et al. Advances in Drug Research Vol. 14 pp. 2 36 Academic press London 1985 Kato et al. 36 10 927 932 1995 Kushner et al. 77 79 88 1999 .

In addition non radio active isotope containing drugs such as deuterated drugs called heavy drugs can be used for the treatment of diseases and conditions related to Bcl 2 activity. Increasing the amount of an isotope present in a compound above its natural abundance is called enrichment. Examples of the amount of enrichment include from about 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 16 21 25 29 33 37 42 46 50 54 58 63 67 71 75 79 84 88 92 96 to about 100 mol . Replacement of up to about 15 of normal atom with a heavy isotope has been effected and maintained for a period of days to weeks in mammals including rodents and dogs with minimal observed adverse effects Czajka D M and Finkel A J Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 1960 84 770 Thomson J F Ann. New York Acad. Sci. 1960 84 736 Czakja D M et al. Am. J. Physiol. 1961 201 357 . Acute replacement of as high as 15 23 in human fluids with deuterium was found not to cause toxicity Blagojevic N et al. in Dosimetry Treatment Planning for Neutron Capture Therapy Zamenhof R Solares G and Harling O Eds. 1994. Advanced Medical Publishing Madison Wis. pp. 25 134 Diabetes Metab. 23 251 1997 .

Stable isotope labeling of a drug can alter its physico chemical properties such as pKa and lipid solubility. These effects and alterations can affect the pharmacodynamic response of the drug molecule if the isotopic substitution affects a region involved in a ligand receptor interaction. While some of the physical properties of a stable isotope labeled molecule are different from those of the unlabeled one the chemical and biological properties are the same with one important exception because of the increased mass of the heavy isotope any bond involving the heavy isotope and another atom will be stronger than the same bond between the light isotope and that atom. Accordingly the incorporation of an isotope at a site of metabolism or enzymatic transformation will slow said reactions potentially altering the pharmcokinetic profile or efficacy relative to the non istopic compound.

Prodrugs are derivatives of an active drug designed to ameliorate some identified undesirable physical or biological property. The physical properties are usually solubility too much or not enough lipid or aqueous solubility or stability related while problematic biological properties include too rapid metabolism or poor bioavailability which itself may be related to a physicochemical property.

Prodrugs are usually prepared by a formation of ester hemi esters carbonate esters nitrate esters amides hydroxamic acids carbamates imines Mannich bases phosphates phosphate esters and enamines of the active drug b functionalizing the drug with azo glycoside peptide and ether functional groups c use of aminals hemi aminals polymers salts complexes phosphoramides acetals hemiacetals and ketal forms of the drug. For example see Andrejus Korolkovas s Essentials of Medicinal Chemistry John Wiley Interscience Publications John Wiley and Sons New York 1988 pp. 97 118 which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

Esters can be prepared from substrates of formula I containing either a hydroxyl group or a carboxy group by general methods known to persons skilled in the art. The typical reactions of these compounds are substitutions replacing one of the heteroatoms by another atom for example 

Amides can be prepared from substrates of formula I containing either an amino group or a carboxy group in similar fashion. Esters can also react with amines or ammonia to form amides.

Another way to make amides from compounds of formula I is to heat carboxylic acids and amines together.

One embodiment of this invention pertains to compounds or therapeutically acceptable salts prodrugs metabolites or salts of prodrugs thereof which are useful as inhibitors of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins the compounds chosen from

Another embodiment comprises pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of this invention and an excipient.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound of this invention.

Still another embodiment comprises methods of treating autoimmune disease in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound of this invention.

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating diseases during which anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins are expressed said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of this invention.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating disease in a patient during which anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins are expressed said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention.

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of this invention.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myclogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention.

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating diseases during which are expressed anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of this invention and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating disease in a patient during which are expressed anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Still another embodiment pertains to compositions for treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer said compositions comprising an excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of this invention and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Still another embodiment pertains to methods of treating bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer small cell lung cancer or spleen cancer in a patient said methods comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of this invention and a therapeutically effective amount of one additional therapeutic agent or more than one additional therapeutic agent.

Metabolites of compounds of this invention produced by in vitro or in vivo metabolic processes may also have utility for treating diseases associated with anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins.

Certain precursor compounds which may be metabolized in vitro or in vivo to form compounds of this invention may also have utility for treating diseases associated with expression of anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins.

Compounds of this invention may exist as acid addition salts basic addition salts or zwitterions. Salts of the compounds are prepared during isolation or following purification of the compounds. Acid addition salts of the compounds are those derived from the reaction of the compounds with an acid. For example the acetate adipate alginate bicarbonate citrate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate formate fumarate glycerophosphate glutamate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide lactobionate lactate maleate mesitylenesulfonate methanesulfonate naphthylenesulfonate nicotinate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate phosphate picrate propionate succinate tartrate thiocyanate trichloroacetic trifluoroacetic para toluenesulfonate and undecanoate salts of the compounds and prodrugs thereof are contemplated as being embraced by this invention. Basic addition salts of the compounds are those derived from the reaction of the compounds with the hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of cations such as lithium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium.

The compounds of this invention may be administered for example bucally ophthalmically orally osmotically parenterally intramuscularly intraperitoneally intrasternally intravenously subcutaneously rectally topically transdermally or vaginally.

Therapeutically effective amounts of compounds of this invention depend on the recipient of the treatment the disorder being treated and the severity thereof the composition containing the compound the time of administration the route of administration the duration of treatment the compound potency its rate of clearance and whether or not another drug is co administered. The amount of a compound of this invention of this invention used to make a composition to be administered daily to a patient in a single dose or in divided doses is from about 0.03 to about 200 mg kg body weight. Single dose compositions contain these amounts or a combination of submultiples thereof.

Compounds of this invention may be administered with or without an excipient. Excipients include for example encapsulating materials or additives such as absorption accelerators antioxidants binders buffers coating agents coloring agents diluents disintegrating agents emulsifiers extenders fillers flavoring agents humectants lubricants perfumes preservatives propellants releasing agents sterilizing agents sweeteners solubilizers wetting agents and mixtures thereof.

Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention to be administered orally in solid dosage form include for example agar alginic acid aluminum hydroxide benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate 1 3 butylene glycol carbomers castor oil cellulose cellulose acetate cocoa butter corn starch corn oil cottonseed oil cross povidone diglycerides ethanol ethyl cellulose ethyl laureate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters gelatin germ oil glucose glycerol groundnut oil hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose isopropanol isotonic saline lactose magnesium hydroxide magnesium stearate malt mannitol monoglycerides olive oil peanut oil potassium phosphate salts potato starch povidone propylene glycol Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium phosphate salts sodium lauryl sulfate sodium sorbitol soybean oil stearic acids stearyl fumarate sucrose surfactants talc tragacanth tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol triglycerides water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention to be administered ophthalmically or orally in liquid dosage forms include for example 1 3 butylene glycol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil ethanol fatty acid esters of sorbitan germ oil groundnut oil glycerol isopropanol olive oil polyethylene glycols propylene glycol sesame oil water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention to be administered osmotically include for example chlorofluorohydrocarbons ethanol water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention to be administered parenterally include for example 1 3 butanediol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil dextrose germ oil groundnut oil liposomes oleic acid olive oil peanut oil Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil U.S.P. or isotonic sodium chloride solution water and mixtures thereof. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound of this invention to be administered rectally or vaginally include for example cocoa butter polyethylene glycol wax and mixtures thereof.

Compounds are expected to be useful when used with alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitoties antiproliferatives antivirals aurora kinase inhibitors other apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors activators of death receptor pathway Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies antibody drug conjugates biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVDs leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins 1APs intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors kinesin inhibitors Jak2 inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors etinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNAs topoisomerase inhibitors ubiquitin ligase inhibitors and the like and in combination with one or more of these agents.

BiTE antibodies are bi specific antibodies that direct T cells to attack cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Examples of BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like. Without being limited by theory one of the mechanisms by which T cells elicit apoptosis of the target cancer cell is by exocytosis of cytolytic granule components which include perforin and granzyme B. In this regard Bcl 2 has been shown to attenuate the induction of apoptosis by both perforin and granzyme B. These data suggest that inhibition of Bcl 2 could enhance the cytotoxic effects elicited by T cells when targeted to cancer cells V. R. Sutton D. L. Vaux and J. A. Trapani 1997 158 12 5783 .

SiRNAs are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications do not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides combinations thereof and the like. The siRNA can have varying lengths e.g. 10 200 bps and structures e.g. hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and are processed in cells to provide active gene silencing. A double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand. For example siRNAs targeting Mcl 1 have been shown to enhance the activity of ABT 263 i.e. N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide or ABT 737 i.e. N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in multiple tumor cell lines Tse et. al 2008 68 9 3421 and references therein .

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Multivalent binding proteins are engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and are generally not naturally occurring antibodies. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens . DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig s. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site. Multispecific DVDs include DVD binding proteins that bind DLL4 and VEGF or C met and EFGR or ErbB3 and EGFR.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA pemetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidinc XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 3 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Aurora kinase inhibitors include ABT 348 AZD 1152 MLN 8054 VX 680 Aurora A specific kinase inhibitors Aurora B specific kinase inhibitors and pan Aurora kinase inhibitors and the like.

Bcl 2 protein inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanylmethyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenyl sulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FCl PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include HGS1029 GDC 0145 GDC 0152 LCL 161 LBW 242 and the like.

Antibody drug conjugates include anti CD22 MC MMAF anti CD22 MC MMAE anti CD22 MCC DM1 CR 011 vcMMAE PSMA ADC MEDI 547 SGN 19Am SGN 35 SGN 75 and the like

Activators of death receptor pathway include TRAIL antibodies or other agents that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. DR4 and DR5 such as Apomab conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and trastuzumab.

Kinesin inhibitors include Eg5 inhibitors such as AZD4877 ARRY 520 CENPE inhibitors such as GSK923295A and the like.

mTOR inhibitors include AP 23573 CCI 779 everolimus RAD 001 rapamycin temsirolimus ATP competitive TORC1 TORC2 inhibitors including PI 103 PP242 PP30 Torin 1 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin picoplatin and the like.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors include wortmannin LY294002 XL 147 CAL 120 ONC 21 AEZS 127 ETP 45658 PX 866 GDC 0941 BGT226 BEZ235 XL765 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 GA101 ofatumumab ABT 806 mAb 806 ErbB3 specific antibodies BSG2 specific antibodies DLL4 specific antibodies and C met specific antibodies and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab CD20 antibodies types I and II and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 veliparib olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofuran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Ubiquitin ligase inhibitors include MDM2 inhibitors such as nutlins NEDD8 inhibitors such as MLN4924 and the like.

Compounds of this invention can also be used as radiosensitizers that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachytherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds of this invention may be combined with other chemotherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin 0 Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA cniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EP0906 epithilone B GARDASTL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECTN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paclitaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine Streptomyces staurospores talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

Assays for the inhibition of Bcl 2 family proteins using Bcl xL as a representative example were performed in 96 well microtiter plates. Compounds of the present invention were diluted in DMSO to concentrations between 10 M and 10 M and introduced into each cell of the plate. A mixture totaling 125 L per well of assay buffer 20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.4 1 mM EDTA 50 mM NaCl 0.05 pluronic F 68 6 nM of BCL Xprotein prepared according to the procedure described in 1997 275 983 986 1 nM fluorescein labeled BAD peptide purchased from Synpep CA and the DMSO solution of the compound of the present invention was shaken for 2 minutes and placed in a LJL Analyst LJL Bio Systems CA . A negative control DMSO 15 nM BAD peptide assay buffer and a positive control DMSO 15 nM BAD peptide 30 nM BCL X assay buffer were used to determine the range of the assay. Polarization was measured at room temperature using a continuous Fluorescein lamp excitation 485 nm emission 530 nm . The Kvalue was calculated directly from the mP value by Microsoft Excel.

Assays for the inhibition of Bcl 2 were performed in 96 well microtiter plates. Compounds of the instant invention were diluted in DMSO to concentrations between 10 M and 10 M and introduced into each well of the plate. A mixture totaling 125 L per well of assay buffer 20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.4 1 mM EDTA 0.05 PF 68 10 nM of Bcl 2 protein prepared according to the procedure described in 2001 98 3012 3017 1 nM fluorescein labeled BAX peptide prepared in house and the DMSO solution of the compound of the instant invention was shaken for 2 minutes and placed in a LJL Analyst LJL Bio Systems CA. Polarization was measured at room temperature using a continuous Fluorescein lamp excitation 485 nm emission 530 nm . Kvalues were calculated using Microsoft Excel.

Inhibition constants K for compounds according to the invention are shown in TABLE 1 below. Where the Kfor a compound is represented as greater than a certain numerical value it is intended to mean that the binding affinity value is greater than the limits of detection of the assay used. Where the Kfor a compound is represented as 

The inhibition constant K is the dissociation constant of an enzyme inhibitor complex or a protein small molecule complex wherein the small molecule is inhibiting binding of one protein to another protein. So a large Kvalue indicates a low binding affinity and a small Kvalue indicates a high binding affinity.

This inhibitory data demonstrates the utility of compounds having formula I as inhibitors of anti apopotic Bcl 2 protein.

It is expected that because compounds of this invention bind to Bcl 2 they would also have utility as binders to anti apoptotic proteins having close structural homology to Bcl 2 such as for example anti apoptotic Bcl X Bcl w Mcl 1 and Bfl 1 A1 proteins.

Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bone marrow cancer cervical cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia colorectal cancer esophageal cancer hepatocellular cancer lymphoblastic leukemia follicular lymphoma lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin melanoma myelogenous leukemia myeloma oral cancer ovarian cancer non small cell lung cancer prostate cancer small cell lung cancer chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloma prostate cancer spleen cancer and the like is described in commonly owned PCT US 2004 36770 published as WO 2005 049593 and PCT US 2004 37911 published as WO 2005 024636.

Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in immune and autoimmune diseases is described in 2003 3 378 3842000 110 3 584 902000 95 4 1283 92 and 2004 351 14 1409 1418.

Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in arthritis is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 988 479.

Involvement of Bcl 2 proteins in bone marrow transplant rejection is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 941 196.

Overexpression of Bcl 2 proteins correlates with resistance to chemotherapy clinical outcome disease progression overall prognosis or a combination thereof in various cancers and disorders of the immune system. Cancers include but are not limited to hematologic and solid tumor types such as acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer including estrogen receptor positive breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma Burkitt s lymphoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma gastric carcinoma germ cell testicular cancer gestational trophobalstic disease glioblastoma head and neck cancer heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer including small cell lung cancer and non small cell lung cancer lymphangioendothelio sarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma lymphoma including diffuse large B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma Hodgkin s lymphoma and non Hodgkin s lymphoma malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma peripheral T cell lymphoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer including hormone insensitive refractory prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma testicular cancer including germ cell testicular cancer thyroid cancer Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer Wilms tumor and the like.

It is also expected that compounds of this invention would inhibit growth of cells expressing Bcl 2 proteins derived from a pediatric cancer or neoplasm including embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia pediatric acute myelogenous leukemia pediatric alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma pediatric anaplastic ependymoma pediatric anaplastic large cell lymphoma pediatric anaplastic medulloblastoma pediatric atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor of the central nervous system pediatric biphenotypic acute leukemia pediatric Burkitts lymphoma pediatric cancers of Ewing s family of tumors such as primitive neuroectodermal rumors pediatric diffuse anaplastic Wilm s tumor pediatric favorable histology Wilm s tumor pediatric glioblastoma pediatric medulloblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma pediatric neuroblastoma derived myelocytomatosis pediatric pre B cell cancers such as leukemia pediatric psteosarcoma pediatric rhabdoid kidney tumor pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma and pediatric T cell cancers such as lymphoma and skin cancer and the like.

Autoimmune disorders include acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome AIDS autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome hemolytic anemia inflammatory diseases and thrombocytopenia acute or chronic immune disease associated with organ transplantation Addison s disease allergic diseases alopecia alopecia areata atheromatous disease arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis arthritis including osteoarthritis juvenile chronic arthritis septic arthritis Lyme arthritis psoriatic arthritis and reactive arthritis autoimmune bullous disease abetalipoprotemia acquired immunodeficiency related diseases acute immune disease associated with organ transplantation acquired acrocyanosis acute and chronic parasitic or infectious processes acute pancreatitis acute renal failure acute rheumatic fever acute transverse myelitis adenocarcinomas aerial ectopic beats adult acute respiratory distress syndrome AIDS dementia complex alcoholic cirrhosis alcohol induced liver injury alcohol induced hepatitis allergic conjunctivitis allergic contact dermatitis allergic rhinitis allergy and asthma allograft rejection alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency Alzheimer s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis anemia angina pectoris ankylosing spondylitis associated lung disease anterior horn cell degeneration antibody mediated cytotoxicity antiphospholipid syndrome anti receptor hypersensitivity reactions aortic and peripheral aneurysms aortic dissection arterial hypertension arteriosclerosis arteriovenous fistula arthropathy asthenia asthma ataxia atopic allergy atrial fibrillation sustained or paroxysmal atrial flutter atrioventricular block atrophic autoimmune hypothyroidism autoimmune haemolytic anaemia autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis classical autoimmune or lupoid hepatitis autoimmune mediated hypoglycemia autoimmune neutropaenia autoimmune thrombocytopaenia autoimmune thyroid disease B cell lymphoma bone graft rejection bone marrow transplant BMT rejection bronchiolitis obliterans bundle branch block burns cachexia cardiac arrhythmias cardiac stun syndrome cardiac tumors cardiomyopathy cardiopulmonary bypass inflammation response cartilage transplant rejection cerebellar cortical degenerations cerebellar disorders chaotic or multifocal atrial tachycardia chemotherapy associated disorders chlamydia choleosatatis chronic alcoholism chronic active hepatitis chronic fatigue syndrome chronic immune disease associated with organ transplantation chronic eosinophilic pneumonia chronic inflammatory pathologies chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD chronic salicylate intoxication colorectal common varied immunodeficiency common variable hypogammaglobulinaemia conjunctivitis connective tissue disease associated interstitial lung disease contact dermatitis Coombs positive haemolytic anaemia cor pulmonale Creutzfeldt Jakob disease cryptogenic autoimmune hepatitis cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis culture negative sepsis cystic fibrosis cytokine therapy associated disorders Crohn s disease dementia pugilistica demyelinating diseases dengue hemorrhagic fever dermatitis dermatitis scleroderma dermatologic conditions dermatomyositis polymyositis associated lung disease diabetes diabetic arteriosclerotic disease diabetes mellitus Diffuse Lewy body disease dilated cardiomyopathy dilated congestive cardiomyopathy discoid lupus erythematosus disorders of the basal ganglia disseminated intravascular coagulation Down s Syndrome in middle age drug induced interstitial lung disease drug induced hepatitis drug induced movement disorders induced by drugs which block CNS dopamine receptors drug sensitivity eczema encephalomyelitis endocarditis endocrinopathy enteropathic synovitis epiglottitis Epstein Barr virus infection erythromelalgia extrapyramidal and cerebellar disorders familial hematophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis fetal thymus implant rejection Friedreich s ataxia functional peripheral arterial disorders female infertility fibrosis fibrotic lung disease fungal sepsis gas gangrene gastric ulcer giant cell arteritis glomerular nephritis glomerulonephritides Goodpasture s syndrome goitrous autoimmune hypothyroidism Hashimoto s disease gouty arthritis graft rejection of any organ or tissue graft versus host disease gram negative sepsis gram positive sepsis granulomas due to intracellular organisms group B streptococci GBS infection Grave s disease haemosiderosis associated lung disease hairy cell leukemia hairy cell leukemia Hallerrorden Spatz disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis hay fever heart transplant rejection hemachromatosis hematopoietic malignancies leukemia and lymphoma hemolytic anemia hemolytic uremic syndrome thrombolytic thrombocytopenic purpura hemorrhage Henoch Schoenlcin purpurca Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Hepatitis C HIV infection HIV neuropathy Hodgkin s disease hypoparathyroidism Huntington s chorea hyperkinetic movement disorders hypersensitivity reactions hypersensitivity pneumonitis hyperthyroidism hypokinetic movement disorders hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis evaluation idiopathic Addison s disease idiopathic leucopaenia idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopaenia idiosyncratic liver disease infantile spinal muscular atrophy infectious diseases inflammation of the aorta inflammatory bowel disease insulin dependent diabetes mellitus interstitial pneumonitis iridocyclitis uveitis optic neuritis ischemia reperfusion injury ischemic stroke juvenile pernicious anaemia juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile spinal muscular atrophy Kaposi s sarcoma Kawasaki s disease kidney transplant rejection leishmaniasis leprosy lesions of the corticospinal system linear IgA disease lipidema liver transplant rejection Lyme disease lymphederma lymphocytic infiltrative lung disease malaria male infertility idiopathic or NOS malignant histiocytosis malignant melanoma meningitis meningococcemia microscopic vasculitis of the kidneys migraine headache mitochondrial multisystem disorder mixed connective tissue disease mixed connective tissue disease associated lung disease monoclonal gammopathy multiple myeloma multiple systems degenerations Mencel Dejerine Thomas Shi Drager and Machado Joseph myalgic encephalitis Royal Free Disease myasthenia gravis microscopic vasculitis of the kidneys myelodyplastic syndrome myocardial infarction myocardial ischemic disorders nasopharyngeal carcinoma neonatal chronic lung disease nephritis nephrosis nephrotic syndrome neurodegenerative diseases neurogenic I muscular atrophies neutropenic fever Non alcoholic Steatohepatitis occlusion of the abdominal aorta and its branches occlusive arterial disorders organ transplant rejection orchitis epidydimitis orchitis vasectomy reversal procedures organomegaly osteoarthrosis osteoporosis ovarian failure pancreas transplant rejection parasitic diseases parathyroid transplant rejection Parkinson s disease pelvic inflammatory disease pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus foliaceus pemphigoid perennial rhinitis pericardial disease peripheral atherlosclerotic disease peripheral vascular disorders peritonitis pernicious anemia phacogenic uveitis pneumonia pneumonia POEMS syndrome polyneuropathy organomegaly endocrinopathy monoclonal gammopathy and skin changes syndrome post perfusion syndrome post pump syndrome post MI cardiotomy syndrome postinfectious interstitial lung disease premature ovarian failure primary biliary cirrhosis primary sclerosing hepatitis primary myxoedema primary pulmonary hypertension primary sclerosing cholangitis primary vasculitis Progressive supranucleo Palsy psoriasis psoriasis type 1 psoriasis type 2 psoriatic arthropathy pulmonary hypertension secondary to connective tissue disease pulmonary manifestation of polyarteritis nodosa post inflammatory interstitial lung disease radiation fibrosis radiation therapy Raynaud s phenomenon and disease Raynoud s disease Refsum s disease regular narrow QRS tachycardia Reiter s disease renal disease NOS renovascular hypertension reperfusion injury restrictive cardiomyopathy rheumatoid arthritis associated interstitial lung disease rheumatoid spondylitis sarcoidosis Schmidt s syndrome scleroderma senile chorea Senile Dementia of Lewy body type sepsis syndrome septic shock seronegative arthropathies shock sickle cell anemia Sj gren s disease associated lung disease Sj rgren s syndrome skin allograft rejection skin changes syndrome small bowel transplant rejection sperm autoimmunity multiple sclerosis all subtypes spinal ataxia spinocerebellar degenerations spondyloarthropathy spondyloarthopathy sporadic polyglandular deficiency type I sporadic polyglandular deficiency type II Still s disease streptococcal myositis stroke structural lesions of the cerebellum Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis sympathetic ophthalmia Syncope syphilis of the cardiovascular system systemic anaphylaxis systemic inflammatory response syndrome systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus systemic lupus erythematosus associated lung disease systemic sclerosis systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung disease T cell or FAB ALL Takayasu s disease arteritis Telangiectasia Th2 Type and Th1 Type mediated diseases thromboangitis obliterans thrombocytopenia thyroiditis toxicity toxic shock syndrome transplants trauma hemorrhage type 2 autoimmune hepatitis anti LKM antibody hepatitis type B insulin resistance with acanthosis nigricans type III hypersensitivity reactions type IV hypersensitivity ulcerative colitic arthropathy ulcerative colitis unstable angina uremia urosepsis urticaria uveitis valvular heart diseases varicose veins vasculitis vasculitic diffuse lung disease venous diseases venous thrombosis ventricular fibrillation vitiligo acute liver disease viral and fungal infections vital encephalitis aseptic meningitis vital associated hemaphagocytic syndrome Wegener s granulomatosis Wernicke Korsakoff syndrome Wilson s disease xenograft rejection of any organ or tissue yersinia and associated arthropathy and the like.

The following abbreviations have the meanings indicated. ADDP means 1 1 azodicarbonyl dipiperidine AD mix 13 means a mixture of DHQD PHAL KFe CN KCO and KSO 9 BBN means 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonane Boc means tert butoxycarbonyl DHQD PHAL means hydroquinidine 1 4 phthalazinediyl diethyl ether DBU means 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DIBAL means diisobutylaluminum hydride DIEA means diisopropylethylamine DMAP means N N dimethylaminopyridine DMF means N N dimethylformamide dmpe means 1 2 bis dimethylphosphino ethane DMSO means dimethylsulfoxide dppb means 1 4 bis diphenylphosphino butane dppe means 1 2 bis diphenylphosphino ethane dppf means 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dppm means 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino methane EDAC.HCl means 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride Fmoc means fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl HATU means O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HMPA means hexamethylphosphoramide IPA means isopropyl alcohol MP BHmeans macroporous triethylammonium methylpolystyrene cyanoborohydride TEA means triethylamine TFA means trifluoroacetic acid THF means tetrahydrofuran NCS means N chlorosuccinimide NMM means N methylmorpholine NMP means N methylpyrrolidine PPhmeans triphenylphosphine.

Compounds of this invention may be made by synthetic chemical processes examples of which are shown herein. Exemplary schemes of the most useful and readily understood description of procedures and conceptual aspects of this invention are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 631 367 and 12 631 404. It is meant to be understood that the order of the steps in the processes may be varied that reagents solvents and reaction conditions may be substituted for those specifically mentioned and that vulnerable moieties may be protected and deprotected as necessary.

The following examples are presented to provide what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of procedures and conceptual aspects of this invention. The exemplified compounds and intermediates were named using ACD ChemSketch Version 12.01 13 May 2009 Advanced Chemistry Development Inc. Toronto Ontario or ChemDraw Ver. 9.0.5 CambridgeSoft Cambridge Mass. .

EXAMPLE 1A 10 g 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide 5.82 g 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 9.42 g and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 3.00 g were combined in dichloromethane 98 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight diluted with dichloromethane and poured into water. The organic layer was washed thoroughly with water and washed with 1M aqueous HCl solution and 5 aqueous NaHCOsolution. The organic layer was washed again with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography eluting with a gradient of 2 methanol dichloromethane to 10 methanol dichloromethane. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.08 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.37 d 1H 7.94 dd 1H 7.75 m 3H 7.54 m 4H 7.40 m 2H 7.35 d 2H 6.93 d 2H 4.39 br s 1H 4.02 m 1H 3.91 br s 2H 3.28 br s 2H 3.08 br s 3H 2.89 br s 2H 2.73 m 1H 2.40 m 1H 2.09 m 1H 1.97 m 1H 1.87 m 1H 1.64 m 1H 1.24 s 3H 1.12 d 3H 1.08 s 3H .

EXAMPLE 1B 40 mg and 1R 2R 3R 5S 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine 19.60 mg were combined in dioxane 1 ml . Triethylamine 0.027 ml was added. The mixture was heated to 90 C. overnight concentrated under vacuum and purified by preparative HPLC using a C18 column 250 21.20 mm 5 and eluting with a gradient of 20 100 CHCN vs. 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water giving the product as a trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.08 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.37 d 1H 7.94 dd 1H 7.75 m 3H 7.54 m 4H 7.40 m 2H 7.35 d 2H 6.93 d 2H 4.39 br s 1H 4.02 m 1H 3.91 br s 2H 3.28 br s 2H 3.08 br s 3H 2.89 br s 2H 2.73 m 1H 2.40 m 1H 2.09 m 1H 1.97 m 1H 1.87 m 1H 1.64 m 1H 1.24 s 3H 1.12 d 3H 1.08 s 3H .

EXAMPLE 45C 50 mg was dissolved in dichloromethane 2 mL . Triethylamine 0.022 mL 16 mg was added followed by acetyl chloride 0.010 mL 11 mg . The solution was mixed at room temperature for 16 hours and then purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 2A 55 mg was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 0.6 mL methanol 0.2 mL and water 0.2 mL and treated with lithium hydroxide monohydrate 22 mg . The solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The solution was acidified with 1M hydrochloric acid extracted with ethyl acetate dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound.

2 Fluoronitrobenzene 141 g 1.0 mol and chlorosulfonic acid 300 mL were heated at 60 C. for 10 hours. After the reaction mixture cooled to room temperature it was carefully poured to ice about 1 kg in a four liter Erlenmeyer flask and cooled efficiently by an ice brine bath. The mixture was extracted with ether 4 L and brine 2 L . The resulting solution was cooled to 40 C. Concentrated ammonium hydroxide 300 mL was then added with vigorous stirring and the addition rate was controlled to allow the reaction mixture to stay below 10 C. internal temperature . Dry ice cubes were added to the reaction mixture to lower the temperature when necessary. Immediately after the addition was complete the resulting mixture was separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 L . The combined organic phases were washed with the aqueous 4 M hydrochloric acid 300 mL and brine 100 mL dried on anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resulting solid was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane mixture. The mother liquid from the recrystallization was concentrated and recrystallized in the same manner and the resulting solids were combined to afford the title compound.

To a solution of EXAMPLE 2C 7.70 g in tetrahydrofuran 35 mL was added dropwise a solution of cyclohexylmethylamine 6.0 mL 5.22 g and diisopropylethylamine 8.0 mL 5.92 g in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL . After the addition tetrahydrofuran 20 mL was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The solution was added to water and extracted with a solution of ethyl acetate and dichloromethane 1 1 by volume . The solution was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the filtrate volume was reduced to isolate the title compound by crystallization.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 2B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 8.50 br s 1H 8.40 m 1H 7.88 dd 1H 7.73 d 1H 7.71 d 1H 7.06 dd 1H 6.86 d 1H 6.81 d 1H 4.16 m 1H 3.96 3.77 m 2H 3.25 t 4H 3.18 3.06 m 2H 2.77 m 4H 2.48 2.23 m 2H 2.14 1.95 m 8H 1.86 m 2H 1.77 1.60 m 11H 1.25 1.14 m 8H 1.07 1.00 m 4H 0.95 0.86 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 3B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.98 br s 1H 8.51 br s 1H 8.42 br s 1H 7.89 dd 1H 7.43 d 2H 7.42 m 3H 7.29 d 2H 7.08 d 1H 6.85 d 2H 4.03 3.75 m 3H 3.24 t 4H 2.86 m 2H 2.37 m 2H 2.11 m 2H 1.97 1.82 m 2H 1.78 1.55 m 10H 1.23 0.91 m 11H 0.79 d 2H 0.45 s 1H .

4 Methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid 1.55 g 8.63 mmol 1 bromo 3 iodobenzene 2.22 g 7.84 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.29 g 0.392 mmol and CsF 2.38 g 15.7 mmol in dioxane 40 mL were stirred at 80 C. for 8 hours. The reaction was cooled poured into ethyl acetate washed twice with water and brine and the combined organic layers were concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel using 2 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 4A 146 mg 0.50 mmol 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine 92 mg 0.60 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 23 mg 0.025 mmol tri t butylphosphonium tetrafluoroborate 11.7 mg 0.04 mmol and KPO 160 mg 0.75 mmol in diglyme 5 mL were stirred at 100 C. for 24 hours. The reaction was cooled and was chromatographed on silica gel using 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 4C in place of EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.90 s 1H 8.65 m 2H 7.97 d 1H 7.93 d 2H 7.68 d 2H 7.28 d 1H 7.17 t 1H 6.88 s 1H 6.82 d 1H 6.66 d 1H 5.70 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 2.55 m 2H 2.34 m 4H 1.72 m 6H 1.52 m 1H 0.99 1.49 m 16H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting phenyl acetyl chloride for acetyl chloride in EXAMPLE 2A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 5B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.98 br s 1H 8.63 m 2H 7.93 dt 1H 7.73 d 1H 7.71 d 1H 7.33 7.19 m 6H 6.91 d 2H 4.10 m 1H 3.95 m 2H 3.78 d 1H 3.29 t 4H 3.00 2.60 m 4H 2.34 m 1H 2.17 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.90 m 1H 1.80 1.53 m 9H 1.23 1.17 m 8H 0.99 m 2H 0.92 0.86 m 6H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 4A using 1 bromo 4 iodobenzene in place of 1 bromo 3 iodobenzene.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 6C in place of EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.90 s 1H 8.66 m 2H 7.97 d 1H 7.87 d 2H 7.66 d 2H 7.51 d 2H 7.26 d 2H 7.18 m 1H 6.79 d 2H 5.95 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 2.60 m 2H 2.33 m 2H 1.94 m 2H 1.72 m 6H 1.23 s 3H 1.19 m 4H 0.93 1.15 m 11H .

EXAMPLE 6C 100 mg 0.286 mmol 3 phenylpropanal 101 mg 0.715 mmol and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 182 mg 0.858 mmol was stirred in 1 2 dichloroethane 5 mL for 24 hours. The mixture was triturated with dichloromethane and ether to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 7A in place of EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide.

Benzyl 2 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 octane 6 carboxylate 300 mg was dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide 3 mL then ethyl 4 fluorobenzoate 172 mg and potassium carbonate 206 mg were added. The reaction was heated at 130 C. overnight. After cooling the reaction was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration of the filtrate the resultant crude material was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using 7 3 hexanes ethyl acetate to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 8A 82 mg was dissolved in methanol 6 mL then 10 palladium on carbon 13 mg was added and the reaction stirred under a hydrogen balloon for 3 hours. The reaction was then filtered through celite and the filtrate was concentrated giving the crude product that was used in the next step with no purification.

EXAMPLE 8B 45 mg and adamantane 1 carboxylic acid 31 mg were dissolved in dichloromethane 1 mL then 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 38 mg and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 7 mg were added and the reaction stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was then diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with twice with 1M HPO twice with saturated NaHCO and once with brine. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration the title compound was carried on with no further purification.

EXAMPLE 8C 70 mg was dissolved in tetrandyrofuran 2 mL then a 1.0M solution of borane in tetrahydrofuran 0.25 mL was added and the reaction heated at 70 C. for one hour. After cooling to room temperature 2.5M HCl in ethanol 2 mL was added and the reaction heated at 70 C. for one hour. After cooling and concentration the residue was redissolved in 2.5M HCl in ethanol 4 mL and heated at 70 C. for one hour. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature and partitioned between ethyl acetate and 2M aqueous NaCO. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration the resultant product was carried on without further purification.

EXAMPLE 8D 68 mg was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL and methanol 1 mL . Then 1N aqueous lithium hydroxide was added 0.32 mL and the mixture was heated at 65 C. overnight. The reaction was then cooled and concentrated and water was added adjusting the pH to 1 with 2N aqueous HCl. The reaction mixture was extracted with chloroform methanol and after drying the organic layer over sodium sulfate and filtration the filtrate was concentrated to afford the title compound as a hydrochloride salt.

EXAMPLE 8E 32 mg EXAMPLE 2D 30 mg 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride 32 mg and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 20 mg were stirred in dichloromethane 1.5 mL for 24 hours. The product was purified by preparative HPLC using a C18 column 250 50 mm 10u and eluting with a gradient of 20 100 CHCN vs. 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water giving the product as a trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 br s 1H 8.79 br s 1H 8.63 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.78 d 2H 7.26 d 1H 6.90 m 2H 4.90 br m 1H 4.15 br m 1H 3.90 br m 1H 3.76 br m 1H 3.26 m 4H 3.12 s 2H 2.08 br m 2H 1.99 br m 5H 1.60 m 18H 1.18 m 3H 1.00 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 3 phenylpropionyl chloride for acetyl chloride in EXAMPLE 2A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 9C for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 9A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 8.10 dd 1H 7.94 dt 1H 7.72 d 2H 7.39 7.13 m 10H 6.97 6.78 m 4H 4.20 m 1H 4.04 m 1H 3.88 m 2H 3.51 br s 4H 2.92 2.63 m 7H 2.45 2.03 m 8H 1.95 m 2H 1.85 1.54 m 4H 1.41 m 2H 1.24 1.15 m 8H 1.01 0.90 m 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 10D for EXAMPLE 8E and EXAMPLE 10E for EXAMPLE 2D in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 9.82 v br s 1H 9.02 v br s 1H 8.57 d 1H 8.30 d 2H 7.87 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.23 m 2H 7.16 m 4H 7.01 d 2H 4.20 m 2H 3.90 br m 2H 3.60 3.40 3.20 3.00 all br m total 18H 2.18 m 2H 1.99 br s 3H 1.62 br m 10H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting tert butyl 1S 4S 2 5 diazabicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2 carboxylate for benzyl 2 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 octane 6 carboxylate in EXAMPLE 8A.

EXAMPLE 11A 280 mg was dissolved in 4N HCl in dioxane 6 mL and stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated NaHCO. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration the resultant product was carried on with no purification.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 11E for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 br s 1H 8.63 m 2H 8.20 br s 1H 7.93 dd 1H 7.78 d 2H 7.26 d 1H 6.70 m 2H 4.78 br s 1H 4.44 br s 1H 3.70 m 2H 3.38 m 2H 3.30 t 2H 3.12 s 2H 2.38 m 1H 2.20 m 1H 1.99 br m 3H 1.60 m 18H 1.18 m 3H 1.00 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 10A for EXAMPLE 8B and 3 methyl 5 bromo adamantane 1 carboxylic acid for adamantane 1 carboxylic acid in EXAMPLE 8C.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 12C for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 v br s 1H 8.97 v br s 1H 8.63 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.25 d 1H 7.00 d 2H 3.90 br m 1H 3.60 3.40 3.20 3.00 all br m total 10H 2.21 s 5H 2.02 m 2H 1.70 m 7H 1.40 m 5H 1.20 m 4H 1.00 m 2H 0.86 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 10A for EXAMPLE 8B and 3 5 dimethyl adamantane 1 carboxylic acid for adamantane 1 carboxylic acid in EXAMPLE 8C.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 13C for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 v br s 1H 8.97 v br s 1H 8.63 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.25 d 1H 7.00 d 2H 3.90 br m 1H 3.55 br m 1H 3.30 m 8H 2.99 br s 2H 2.08 br m 1H 1.70 m 7H 1.45 s 2H 1.20 m 12H 1.00 m 2H 0.82 s 6H .

EXAMPLE 14 was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 1B substituting 4 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 azabicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 yl benzenesulfonamide for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d ppm 1.45 s 3H 1.56 dd 1H 1.92 1.98 m 1H 2.63 dd 1H 2.69 2.75 m 1H 2.79 2.99 m 2H 3.01 3.21 m 4H 3.30 3.35 m 4H 3.78 4.01 m 1H 4.39 s 2H 6.88 6.95 m 2H 7.29 7.36 m 1H 7.38 7.44 m 2H 7.47 7.58 m 6H 7.72 7.79 m 3H 7.99 8.06 m 2H 9.45 9.59 m 1H .

EXAMPLE 62A 100 mg 1S 4R 1 7 7 trimethylbicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 en 2 ylboronic acid 44.6 mg tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 11 mg tri t butylphosphonium tetrafluoroborate 4 mg and CsF 113 mg were dissolved in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the crude material was purified using flash chromotography with 0 15 ethyl acetate hexane to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 15B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.12 m 1H 8.66 m 2H 7.94 dd 1H 7.79 d 2H 7.64 m 1H 7.41 m 2H 7.30 d 1H 7.20 m 1H 6.99 d 2H 6.01 d 1H 4.28 m 2H 3.85 m 2H 3.28 m 12H 1.92 m 2H 1.62 m 3H 1.24 m 5H 0.94 s 3H 0.83 d 6H .

Ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl benzoate 1.5 g 1 bromomethyl 2 nitrobenzene 1.383 g and sodium carbonate 2.036 g were suspended in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 20 mL at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water and brine and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column purification with 10 40 ethyl acetate hexane to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 16A 1.5 g and 5 Pd C 0.3 g were suspended in anhydrous ethanol 75 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred under 1 atmosphere hydrogen for 2 hours. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to afford the product.

The title compound was prepared by substituting tricyclo 5.2.1.02 6 decan 8 one for 2 formylphenylboronic acid and EXAMPLE 16B for EXAMPLE 23C in EXAMPLE 40A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 16D for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.09 bs 1H 8.66 m 2H 7.94 dd 1H 7.79 d 2H 7.30 d 1H 7.22 t 2H 7.01 m 2H 6.72 d 1H 6.65 m 1H 4.26 m 2H 3.85 dd 2H 3.66 m 2H 3.28 m 10H 2.26 1.61 m 14H 1.40 0.92 m 8H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1R 4R 6S 5 5 6 trimethylbicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 2 one for 2 formylphenylboronic acid and EXAMPLE 16B for EXAMPLE 23C in EXAMPLE 40A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 17B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.06 bs 1H 8.64 m 2H 7.94 m 1H 7.79 d 2H 7.30 d 1H 7.20 m 2H 7.00 d 2H 6.65 m 2H 3.83 m 2H 3.61 m 2H 3.30 m 14H 2.05 s 1H 1.86 m 3H 1.61 m 4H 1.45 m 1H 1.28 m 3H 0.99 s 3H 0.86 s 3H 0.77 d 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1R 5S 6 6 dimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 2 one for 2 formylphenylboronic acid and EXAMPLE 16B for EXAMPLE 23C in EXAMPLE 40A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 18B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.09 s 1H 8.66 m 2H 7.94 dd 1H 7.79 d 2H 7.30 d 1H 7.19 m 2H 6.99 d 2H 6.59 m 2H 3.85 m 4H 3.29 m 14H 2.33 m 2H 2.17 m 1H 1.82 m 7H 1.27 dd 2H 1.18 s 3H 1.09 s 3H 1.03 d 1H .

 1R 5S 6 6 Dimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 2 one 0.938 mL 920 mg was added to tetrahydrofuran 50 mL and the mixture was cooled to 78 C. using an isopropanol dry ice bath. Lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1M in tetrahydrofuran 7.99 mL was added and the solution was stirred at 78 C. for 15 minutes. The solution was allowed to warm to 0 C. in a water ice bath and the mixture was stirred for 45 minutes. Paraformaldehyde 2000 mg was added. The solution was stirred at 0 C. for 15 minutes allowed to warm to room temperature and stir for an additional four hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride extracted with diethyl ether washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes.

EXAMPLE 19A 417 mg and ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl benzoate 520 mg were added to acetonitrile 6 mL . Bismuth III trifluoromethanesulfonate 113 mg was added and the mixture was heated at 50 C. for 5.5 hours. The mixture was cooled and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 5 methanol in dichloromethane.

EXAMPLE 19B 452 mg was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL and the mixture was cooled to 60 C. using a chloroform dry ice bath. 4 Chlorophenyl magnesium bromide 1M in tetrahydrofuran 2.35 mL was added drop wise. Upon completion of the addition the mixture was warmed quickly to 25 C. using a carbon tetrachloride dry ice bath and stirred for four hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride extracted with ethyl acetate dried on anhydrous sodium sulfate and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes.

EXAMPLE 19C 363 mg was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 6 mL and Burgess reagent methoxycarbonylsulfamoyl triethylammonium hydroxide inner salt 209 mg was added. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 19E for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 8.56 m 1H 8.48 m 1H 7.90 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.48 d 1H 7.40 d 1H 7.14 d 1H 6.91 d 2H 6.88 d 1H 6.42 d 1H 4.14 dd 1H 3.26 m 8H 2.71 br s 2H 1.95 m 2H 1.77 1.53 m 8H 1.33 1.11 m 6H 1.07 s 3H 0.97 s 3H 0.86 m 2H .

 2 Adamantylmethyl amine hydrochloride salt 195 mg ethyl 4 4 5 5 dimethyl 2 oxocyclohexypmethyl piperazin 1 yl benzoate 200 mg and sodium acetate 44 mg were suspended in anhydrous dichloroethane. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes followed by the addition of sodium triacetoxyborohydride 228 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution. The reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with water and brine. The organic phase was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column purification with 0 5 methanol dichloromethane to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 20B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 s 1H 8.65 m 2H 7.94 dd 1H 7.78 d 2H 7.30 d 1H 6.99 d 2H 3.83 m 2H 3.26 m 8H 2.98 m 4H 2.72 m 4H 2.27 m 2H 1.64 m 22H 1.25 m 5H 0.93 d 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1R 2S 3S 5S 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine for 2 adamantylmethyl amine hydrochloride salt in EXAMPLE 20B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 21B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.07 m 1H 8.65 m 2H 7.94 dd 1H 7.77 m 2H 7.30 d 1H 6.98 d 2H 3.84 dd 2H 3.29 m 10H 2.79 m 6H 2.30 m 4H 1.78 m 11H 1.28 m 3H 1.16 m 8H 0.95 m 9H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 45A using tert butyl piperazine 1 carboxylate in place of 1 4 dioxa 8 azaspiro 4.5 decane.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 22B in place of EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide.

A solution of EXAMPLE 22C 0.85 g 1.4 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL and triethylsilane 1 mL was stirred for 24 hours. The mixture was concentrated to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 22D 50 mg 0.081 mmol 2 1s 5s 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonan 3 yl 5 nitrobenzaldehyde 27 mg 0.097 mmol and polymer supported sodium cyanoborohydride 41 mg 0.097 mmol was stirred in tetrahydrofuran 1 mL and acetic acid 0.33 mL for 24 hours. The crude mixture was chromatographed on silica gel using 10 methanol in ethyl acetate without and then with 1 triethylamine to afford the title compound. MS ELSD m e 762 M H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 4 aminomethyltetrahydropyran for cyclohexylmethylamine in EXAMPLE 2D.

The title compound was prepared by substituting 4 4 carboxy phenyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B.

EXAMPLE 23B 3.813 g was added to dichloromethane 50 mL . Triethylsilane 5.5 mL 4.004 g was added followed by trifluoroacetic acid 6 mL 8.880 g . The solution was stirred at room temperature for five hours. Heptane was added and the solvents were removed under reduced pressure after which toluene was added and the solvents again removed under reduced pressure to isolate the title compound as the mono trifluoroacetic acid salt.

Sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1M in tetrahydrofuran 2.40 mL was added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. The solution was cooled to 78 C. using an isopropanol dry ice bath and 1 1 1 trifluoro N phenyl N trifluoromethylsulfonyl methanesulfonamide 857 mg was added. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with hexanes 20 mL filtered and again concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using a gradient of 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes.

EXAMPLE 23D 941 mg 2 formylphenylboronic acid 600 mg potassium phosphate tribasic 1416 mg and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 244 mg were added to tetrahydrofuran 15 mL which had been degassed and flushed with nitrogen three times. The solution was heated to 60 C. and stirred for 16 hours. The solution was concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes.

EXAMPLE 23C 60 mg and EXAMPLE 23E 26 mg were added to tetrahydrofuran 1 mL and acetic acid 0.33 mL . Sodium cyanoborohydride 2.38 mmol g on resin 45 mg was added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. The solution was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 5 methanol in dichloromethane to isolate the title compound as the mono acetic acid salt. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.94 br s 1H 8.63 t 1H 8.62 d 1H 7.93 dd 1H 7.73 d 2H 7.42 d 1H 7.28 7.20 m 4H 6.92 d 2H 6.25 d 1H 3.85 dd 4H 3.60 3.41 m 6H 3.37 3.26 m 8H 3.22 br s 2H 2.75 br s 2H 2.64 br s 2H 2.13 m 4H 1.95 1.76 m 6H 1.91 s 3H 1.64 1.50 m 6H 1.32 1.19 m 3H 1.03 m 2H .

1 Adamantan 1 yl 4 bromo 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylic acid diphenylamide 47 mg 2 formylphenylboronic acid 18 mg sodium carbonate 32 mg and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 7 mg were combined in dimethoxyethane ethanol water 12 3 4 1 mL and heated in a CEM Discover microwave reactor at 180 C. for 5 minutes. The reaction was cooled diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration the crude material was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using hexanes ethyl acetate 4 1.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 24A for 2 formylphenylboronic acid in EXAMPLE 40A except here product was purified by preparative HPLC using a C18 column 250 50 mm 10 and eluting with a gradient of 20 100 CHCN vs. 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water giving the product as a trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 9.70 br s 1H 8.70 t 1H 8.66 d 1H 7.96 dd 1H 7.89 br s 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.63 br s 1H 7.50 br s 2H 7.32 m 6H 7.19 m 6H 6.98 d 2H 4.15 br s 1H 3.80 m 4H 3.40 m 4H 3.25 m 4H 2.97 br s 1H 2.00 1.80 1.60 all m total 18H 1.24 m 4H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1R nopinone for tricyclo 5.2.1.02 6 decan 8 one in EXAMPLE 23D.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 27B for EXAMPLE 23E in EXAMPLE 23F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.94 br s 1H 8.63 t 1H 8.62 d 1H 7.93 dd 1H 7.74 d 2H 7.47 7.35 m 2H 7.24 m 2H 7.03 m 1H 6.92 d 2H 5.55 1H 3.85 dd 2H 3.63 3.41 m 2H 3.37 3.23 m 8H 2.41 m 2H 2.37 2.29 m 4H 2.15 m 2H 1.91 s 3H 1.62 d 2H 1.40 d 1H 1.30 s 3H 1.26 m 4H 0.98 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 5 5 6 trimethylbicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 2 one for tricyclo 5.2.1.02 6 decan 8 one in EXAMPLE 23D.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 28B for EXAMPLE 23E in EXAMPLE 23F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.93 br s 1H 8.60 m 2H 7.93 d 1H 7.74 d 2H 7.44 m 1H 7.27 7.17 m 4H 6.90 d 2H 6.20 br s 1H 3.85 dd 2H 3.56 m 2H 3.36 3.23 m 8H 2.62 br s 2H 2.42 br s 2H 1.91 br s 3H 1.82 d 2H 1.62 dd 2H 1.52 d 1H 1.28 m 5H 1.04 1.00 m 6H 0.90 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1R 5S 8 methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octan 3 one for 2 formylphenylboronic acid and EXAMPLE 16B for EXAMPLE 23C in EXAMPLE 40A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 31B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 9.42 s 1H 8.64 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.76 m 2H 7.28 d 1H 7.17 m 1H 6.96 m 3H 6.63 s 1H 3.84 m 5H 3.26 m 15H 2.67 d 3H 2.29 m 8H 1.90 m 2H 1.59 m 2H 1.24 m 2H .

2 Fluorobenzonitrile 100 mg 1R 2S 3S 5S 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine 380 mg triethylamine 1.5 mL were dissolved in anhydrous dimethylsulfoxide 5 mL and heated at 130 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column purification with 0 5 methanol dichloromethane to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 32A 80 mg was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 5 mL . The solution was cooled at 0 C. and diisobutylaluminum hydride 1M in dichloromethane solution 0.7 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched with methanol and 5 L tartaric acid aqueous solution. The solution was extracted with ethyl acetate dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column purification with 0 30 ethyl acetate in hexane to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 32B for 2 formylphenylboronic acid and ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl benzoate for EXAMPLE 23C in EXAMPLE 40A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 32D for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.10 s 1H 8.65 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.78 d 2H 7.26 m 3H 7.00 d 2H 6.73 d 1H 6.64 t 1H 4.26 m 1H 3.83 dd 2H 3.65 m 2H 3.25 m 14H 2.63 m 1H 2.32 d 1H 2.13 m 1H 1.88 m 3H 1.60 m 2H 1.48 m 1H 1.26 m 5H 1.07 m 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 2 fluorobenzaldehyde for 2 fluorobenzonitrile and 1s 5s 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonane for 1R 2S 3S 5S 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine in EXAMPLE 32A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 33A for 2 formylphenylboronic acid and ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl benzoate for EXAMPLE 23C in EXAMPLE 40A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 33C for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.07 m 1H 8.65 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.79 d 2H 7.56 d 1H 7.44 d 2H 7.26 m 2H 7.00 d 2H 4.48 s 2H 4.01 s 2H 3.83 dd 2H 3.28 m 10H 2.98 d 4H 1.90 m 7H 1.62 m 6H 1.25 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting tricyclo 4.3.1.1 undecan 4 one for tricyclo 5.2.1.02 6 decan 8 one in EXAMPLE 23D.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 34B for EXAMPLE 23E in EXAMPLE 23F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.97 br s 1H 8.65 t 1H 8.62 d 1H 7.93 dd 1H 7.74 d 2H 7.41 m 1H 7.28 7.21 m 3H 7.08 m 1H 6.92 d 2H 5.52 m 1H 3.84 dd 2H 3.54 m 2H 3.37 3.24 m 8H 2.57 2.44 m 2H 2.29 2.09 m 4H 1.94 1.84 m 2H 1.91 s 3H 1.62 d 2H 1.36 1.18 m 4H 0.88 s 9H .

EXAMPLE 23C 151 mg and 2 formylphenylboronic acid 54 mg were combined in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 3.5 mL and acetic acid 1.1 mL . Sodium cyanoborohydride resin 252 mg of 2.38 mmol g resin was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was quenched with aqueous NaHCOsolution and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed thoroughly with water and with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was then triturated with ether to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 40A 45 mg 8 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane hydrochloride 27 mg bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 5 mg and lithium hydroxide 7 mg were combined in a mixture of dimethoxyethane 1.6 mL methanol 0.5 mL and water 0.7 mL in a microwave vial. The reaction mixture was heated in a CEM Discover microwave reactor at 150 C. for 15 minutes. The crude material was purified by preparative HPLC using a C18 column 250 21.20 mm 5 and eluting with a gradient of 20 100 CHCN vs. 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.79 br s 1H 8.51 d 1H 8.41 t 1H 7.90 dd 1H 7.73 m 4H 7.60 d 2H 7.41 m 2H 7.35 m 1H 6.81 m 2H 3.83 dd 2H 3.65 s 2H 3.51 s 2H 3.17 m 4H 3.08 m 4H 2.45 m 6H 1.92 m 2H 1.62 m 4H 1.54 m 3H 1.38 m 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 amine for cyclohexylmethylamine in EXAMPLE 2D.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 41B for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.56 d 2H 7.38 d 1H 6.95 d 2H 3.94 m 1H 3.76 m 2H 3.70 m 4H 3.45 m 2H 3.29 m 4H 1.90 m 11H 1.65 m 8H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 10A for EXAMPLE 8B and adamantane 2 carboxylic acid for adamantane 1 carboxylic acid in EXAMPLE 8F.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 42B for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.56 d 2H 7.38 d 1H 6.95 d 2H 3.94 m 1H 3.76 m 2H 3.70 m 4H 3.45 m 2H 3.29 m 4H 2.86 s 1H 2.22 s 1H 2.18 s 1H 1.90 m 5H 1.78 m 5H 1.65 m 4H 1.50 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 43A for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.94 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.38 d 1H 6.62 d 2H 5.03 v br s 1H 4.63 s 1H 3.87 m 3H 3.61 br s 1H 3.48 m 2H 3.30 m 2H 3.04 d 1H 1.90 m 8H 1.80 m 5H 1.60 m 8H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1S 5S benzyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 4 methylbenzenesulfonate for benzyl 2 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 octane 6 carboxylate in EXAMPLE 8A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 44D for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.94 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.56 d 2H 7.38 d 1H 4.71 t 1H 4.29 d 1H 4.20 d 1H 3.97 m 2H 3.86 m 2H 3.48 m 3H 3.21 m 2H 3.11 m 1H 1.85 m 6H 1.76 m 6H 1.60 m 7H .

Ethyl 4 fluorobenzoate 11.65 g 69.3 mmol 1 4 dioxa 8 azaspiro 4.5 decane 9.92 g 69.3 mmol and triethylamine 9.66 mL 69.3 mmol in N N dimethylacetamide 80 mL were stirred at 80 C. for 24 hours. The reaction was cooled poured into ethyl acetate washed with 3 water and brine and concentrated to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 45A 20 g 68 mmol was stirred at 90 C. for 24 hours in a mixture of dioxane 200 mL acetic acid 70 mL and water 150 mL . The reaction mixture was concentrated and partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel using 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford the title compound.

EXAMPLE 45B 2.72 g 11 mmol and 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine 1.69 g 11 mmol were refluxed for 24 hours in toluene 50 mL under a Dean Stark trap. The resulting mixture was cooled and ethanol 50 mL was added followed by the portionwise addition of NaBH 2.0 g . The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes and water was added. The solution was extracted three times with ether and the combined extracts were washed with water and brine and concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel using ethyl acetate to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 45E in place of EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 41A in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.90 s 1H 8.54 s 1H 8.14 d 1H 7.89 d 1H 731 d 2H 7.10 7.30 m 6H 6.84 d 2H 3.87 m 4H 3.47 t 2H 3.07 m 2H 2.75 m 2H 2.52 m 2H 2.19 m 2H 1.78 1.99 m 6H 1.53 1.75 m 7H 1.27 m 2H 1.17 m 2H 1.15 s 3H 1.00 m 2H 0.94 s 3H 0.76 d 2H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 45C 192 mg 0.5 mmol triethylamine 0.077 mL 0.55 mmol and 4 dimethylaminopyridine 6 mg 0.05 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was added 3 phenylpropanoyl chloride 0.082 mL 0.55 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 24 hours. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel using 20 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 46B in place of EXAMPLE 1B and EXAMPLE 2D in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.90 s 1H 8.61 m 2H 7.92 d 1H 7.72 d 2H 7.20 m 5H 6.90 m 2H 4.07 m 4H 3.93 m 2H 3.18 m 4H 2.65 2.95 m 6H 2.08 m 2H 1.91 m 2H 1.78 1.99 m 6H 1.55 1.76 m 11H 1.22 s 3H 1.17 m 2H 1.01 s 3H 0.99 d 2H 0.90 d 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 10D for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 br s 1H 8.82 br s 1H 8.62 m 2H 7.96 dd 1H 7.78 d 2H 7.26 d 1H 7.00 d 2H 3.86 br s 1H 3.55 br s 2H 3.30 m 8H 2.96 br s 1H 1.99 s 3H 1.60 m 18H 1.18 m 3H 1.00 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 6 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 naphthalenecarboxylic acid for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.57 br s 1H 9.52 s 1H 8.68 d 1H 8.61 m 1H 8.54 s 1H 8.27 8.21 m 1H 8.14 s 1H 8.07 d 1H 8.02 7.95 m 3H 7.56 7.47 m 2H 7.25 d 1H 6.91 d 1H 2.16 br s 6H 2.07 br s 4H 1.76 1.65 m 12H 1.25 1.13 m 4H 1.01 t 2H .

Ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl benzoate 100 mg 1 admantyl bromomethyl ketone 110 mg and sodium carbonate 46 mg were suspended in anhydrous acetonitrile 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 49B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.16 m 1H 8.65 m 2H 7.94 dd 1H 7.81 d 2H 7.26 d 1H 7.02 d 2H 4.58 s 2H 4.01 s 2H 3.29 m 10H 1.71 m 18H 1.17 m 3H 1.00 m 2H .

Ethyl 4 fluorobenzoate 336 mg 2 adamantylmethyl amine hydrochloride 504 mg and sodium carbonate 636 mg were combined in dimethylsulfoxide 5 mL . The reaction was heated to 130 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate poured into water and the organic layer was washed thoroughly with water and with brine. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 9 1 hexanes ether.

EXAMPLE 50A 365 mg was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 6 mL methanol 2 mL and water 2 mL . The reaction was heated to 60 C. overnight. The solution was then acidified with 1M aqueous HCl solution. The product was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 50B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 41A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.80 s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.29 d 1H 7.94 dd 1H 7.62 d 2H 7.38 d 1H 6.57 m 3H 3.94 m 1H 3.87 m 2H 3.47 m 2H 3.17 t 2H 1.91 m 6H 1.81 m 5H 1.65 m 6H 1.50 d 2H .

Ethyl 4 hydroxybenzoate 83 mg and 1 adamantaneethanol 90 mg were combined in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL . Polymer supported triphenylphospine 250 mg of 3 mmol g and di tert butyl azodicarboxylate 173 mg were added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The resin was removed by filtration through celite. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum and the residue was triturated with 95 5 hexanes ether to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 51B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 41A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.25 s 1H 8.65 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.83 d 2H 7.40 d 1H 7.00 d 2H 4.09 t 2H 3.95 m 1H 3.87 m 2H 3.47 m 2H 1.92 m 5H 1.64 m 8H 1.54 d 6H 1.52 t 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1 adamantaneacetic acid for EXAMPLE 1A and ethyl 3 benzylamino propanoate for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 52B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.12 br s 1H 8.66 t 1H 8.56 d 1H 7.86 m 1H 7.37 7.21 m 4H 7.09 t 2H 4.45 s 1H 4.34 s 1H 3.39 t 1H 2.47 t 1H 1.97 s 2H 1.86 m 3H 1.78 1.52 m 18H 1.24 s 1H 1.22 1.12 m 6H 0.98 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by the methods described in Soloway A. H. Nyilas E. J. Org. Chem. 26 1091 1961 .

EXAMPLE 53A 506 mg was dissolved in dichloromethane 10 mL and the mixture was cooled to 14 C. acetone ice bath . Triethylamine 0.83 mL was added followed by the addition of methanesulfonyl chloride 0.46 mL dropwise keeping the temperature below 2 C. The acetone ice bath was removed and reaction continued at room temperature under nitrogen for 3.5 hours. The reaction was partitioned between saturated aqueous NaHCOand ether. The organic layer was washed twice with 1M HPO and crystals formed in the organic layer. The mixture was filtered and the solid material was washed with ether and dried to give the product.

EXAMPLE 53B 409 mg was dissolved in acetonitrile 10 mL then 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine 0.17 mL potassium carbonate 375 mg and lithium bromide 183 mg were added. The reaction was heated under reflux overnight. The reaction was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. The mixture was filtered and the crude material was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using 85 15 hexanes ethyl acetate.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 53D for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.15 br s 1H 9.40 br s 1H 8.62 m 2H 7.96 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.26 d 1H 7.03 d 2H 4.14 br s 2H 3.72 br m 2H 3.28 t 2H 3.17 br m 4H 2.30 m 3H 2.00 m 2H 1.83 m 1H 1.70 m 6H 1.20 m 8H 1.07 m 4H 0.95 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting adamantane 1 amine hydrochloride for 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine in EXAMPLE 53C.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 54B for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.10 br s 1H 9.18 br s 1H 8.62 m 2H 7.96 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.24 d 1H 7.03 d 2H 4.09 br d 2H 3.65 br m 2H 3.28 t 2H 3.10 br m 4H 2.20 s 3H 1.95 s 6H 1.70 m 12H 1.18 m 3H 1.00 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 3 5 dimethyladamantane 1 amine hydrochloride for 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine in EXAMPLE 53C.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 55B for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.10 v br s 1H 9.18 v br s 1H 8.62 m 2H 7.96 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.24 d 1H 7.03 d 2H 4.07 br s 2H 3.62 br s 2H 3.28 t 2H 3.10 br m 4H 2.25 m 1H 1.70 m 12H 1.35 s 3H 1.18 m 6H 1.00 m 2H 0.89 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 3aS 5aR 8aR 8bS 2 2 7 7 tetramethyltetrahydro 3 aH bis 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 b 4 5 d pyran 3a yl methyl sulfamate for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 7.81 d 2H 7.75 m 1H 7.55 m 4H 7.41 d 2H 7.35 m 1H 6.96 d 2H 4.54 dd 1H 4.35 br s 1H 4.31 d 1H 4.22 t 2H 4.14 d 1H 3.91 br s 2H 3.72 m 2H 3.60 m 3H 3.11 br s 2H 2.91 br s 2H 1.45 s 3H 1.35 s 3H 1.14 d 6H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using 41R 4S 7 7 dimethyl 2 oxobicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 1 yl methanesulfonamide in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.95 s 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.48 m 5H 7.38 m 2H 7.27 d 1H 6.93 d 2H 3.77 d 1H 3.42 m 3H 3.24 m 4H 2.40 m 4H 2.30 m 1H 2.03 m 1H 1.92 m 2H 1.55 m 1H 1.40 m 1H 1.02 s 3H 0.88 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 10A for EXAMPLE 8B and 1 adamantylacetic acid for adamantane 1 carboxylic acid in EXAMPLE 8C.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 58C for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.10 v br s 1H 9.44 v br s 1H 8.62 m 2H 7.96 dd 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.26 d 1H 7.02 d 2H 4.07 br s 2H 3.60 br s 2H 3.29 t 2H 3.10 m 6H 1.95 s 3H 1.65 m 12H 1.45 m 8H 1.18 m 3H 1.00 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using 1S 4R 7 7 dimethyl 2 oxobicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 1 yl methanesulfonamide in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.95 s 1H 7.80 d 2H 7.48 m 5H 7.38 m 2H 7.27 d 1H 6.91 d 2H 3.75 d 1H 3.40 m 3H 3.25 m 4H 2.40 m 4H 2.30 m 1H 2.03 m 1H 1.91 m 2H 1.50 m 1H 1.38 m 1H 1.02 s 3H 0.80 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 4A using 4 iodobenzaldehyde in place of 1 bromo 3 iodobenzene.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 7A using 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine in place of EXAMPLE 6C and EXAMPLE 60A in place of phenylpropanal.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 46A using EXAMPLE 60B in place of EXAMPLE 45C.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 60D in place of EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.90 s 1H 8.63 d 1H 8.59 m 1H 7.94 m 3H 7.73 d 2H 7.68 d 1H 7.62 d 1H 7.05 7.26 m 7H 4.61 m 1H 4.36 m 1H 2.88 m 3H 2.30 m 3H 1.66 m 10H 1.20 m 2H 1.19 s 3H 1.17 s 3H 0.87 1.06 m 10H .

Dimethylsulfoxide 22.88 mL with sodium hydride 0.332 g was heated to 70 C. for 1 hour the mixture was cooled to room temperature and 2 bromobenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide 3.40 g was added in several portions. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. A solution of EXAMPLE 61A 1.8 g in dimethylsulfoxide 5.20 mL was then added and the reaction was heated at 70 C. over the weekend. The reaction mixture was acidified with 1M aqueous HCl solution and extracted with ether. The organic layer was washed thoroughly with water and with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 100 hexanes to 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes.

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1S 1 7 7 trimethylbicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 en 2 ylboronic acid for EXAMPLE 40A and EXAMPLE 61B for 8 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane hydrochloride in EXAMPLE 40B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 61C for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.97 s 1H 8.64 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.74 d 2H 7.30 d 1H 7.21 m 2H 7.14 m 1H 6.95 d 2H 6.36 s 1H 5.87 d 1H 3.84 m 2H 3.48 m 2H 3.40 3.32 3.24 all m total 6H 2.40 t 1H 2.34 m 4H 1.90 m 2H 1.61 m 3H 1.27 m 3H 1.06 m 1H 0.94 s 3H 0.83 s 3H 0.79 s 3H .

A solution of tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.284 g and tricyclohexylphosphine 0.417 g in dioxane 75 mL was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. EXAMPLE 62A 5 g 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 3.46 g and potassium acetate 1.825 g were added and the reaction was heated to 85 C. for 36 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed thoroughly with water and with brine. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude solid was washed with hexanes and with hexanes ether 2 1 to obtain the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 62B for EXAMPLE 40A and 2 5 bromothiophen 2 yl 4 phenylthiazole for 8 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane hydrochloride in EXAMPLE 40B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 62C for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.79 s 1H 8.64 s 1H 8.59 s 1H 8.06 br s 1H 7.99 d 1H 7.83 d 2H 7.60 d 2H 7.50 m 3H 7.36 d 1H 7.11 m 3H 7.01 m 4H 6.97 d 1H 3.71 m 2H 3.60 m 4H 3.45 m 4H 3.02 m 2H 2.60 m 4H 1.83 m 1H 1.56 m 4H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 62B for EXAMPLE 40A and bromotriphenylethylene for 8 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane hydrochloride in EXAMPLE 40B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 65A for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.97 s 1H 8.63 s 1H 8.07 br s 1H 7.99 d 1H 7.60 d 2H 7.42 m 6H 7.30 m 4H 7.26 m 6H 7.07 m 2H 6.99 m 4H 3.82 br s 2H 3.60 m 4H 3.45 m 4H 3.02 m 2H 2.62 m 4H 1.83 m 1H 1.56 m 4H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 2 5 methyl 5 6 dihydro phenanthridin 6 yl benzaldehyde for EXAMPLE 23E in EXAMPLE 23F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.03 br s 1H 8.57 d 1H 8.53 t 1H 7.92 dd 1H 7.90 d 2H 7.83 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.41 d 1H 7.28 6.99 m 6H 6.92 d 2H 6.77 td 1H 6.59 dd 1H 6.13 s 1H 3.91 d 1H 3.85 dd 2H 3.65 d 1H 3.30 3.23 m 2H 2.78 s 3H 2.70 2.53 m 5H 1.91 s 3H 1.90 m 1H 1.62 dd 2H 1.38 1.20 m 6H 0.86 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 2 formylphenyl boronic acid pinacol ester for EXAMPLE 23E in EXAMPLE 23F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.94 br s 1H 8.60 d 1H 7.94 7.89 m 1H 7.75 d 2H 7.62 m 1H 7.50 7.21 m 4H 7.25 d 1H 6.92 d 2H 3.84 dd 2H 3.36 3.32 m 8H 2.51 br s 2H 1.91 s 3H 1.62 dt 2H 1.30 br s 9H 1.26 dd 2H 1.16 s 6H 1.07 s 2H .

EXAMPLE 61B 259 mg bis pinacolato diboron 206 mg 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane 22 mg and potassium acetate 159 mg were combined in dimethylsulfoxide 2.7 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at 90 C. for 36 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed thoroughly with water and with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude solid was washed with hexanes and with hexanes ether 2 1 to obtain the title compound.

EXAMPLE 68A 0.043 g 3 bromothiophen 2 yl 2 6 dimethoxyphenyl methanone 0.03114 g tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 11.00 mg and cesium fluoride 0.043 g were combined in 1 2 dimethoxyethane 0.333 ml and ethanol 0.143 ml . The reaction was heated to 90 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate poured into water and washed thoroughly with water and with brine. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography eluting with a gradient of 1 methanol dichloromethane to 5 methanol dichloromethane.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 68C for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.95 s 1H 8.63 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.87 d 1H 7.72 d 2H 7.27 d 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.09 m 3H 6.93 m 4H 6.40 d 2H 5.99 s 1H 3.83 dd 2H 3.60 s 6H 3.26 m 6H 2.31 m 2H 2.22 m 2H 1.90 br s 1H 1.60 m 2H 1.26 m 4H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1 adamantan 1 yl 4 bromo 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylic acid diphenylamide for 3 bromothiophen 2 yl 2 6 dimethoxyphenyl methanone in EXAMPLE 68B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 69B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.95 s 1H 8.64 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.43 d 2H 7.52 s 1H 7.26 m 4H 7.19 m 4H 7.13 m 3H 6.91 m 6H 5.58 s 1H 3.83 dd 2H 3.47 t 2H 3.25 m 6H 2.23 m 4H 2.07 m 3H 1.89 m 6H 1.62 m 8H 1.26 m 3H .

EXAMPLE 16C 60 mg 3 phenylpropanoyl chloride 22 mg and diisopropylethylamine 0.05 mL were dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 3 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column purification with 0 5 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the title compound.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 70B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 400 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.03 m 1H 8.64 m 2H 7.93 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.58 s 1H 7.39 m 2H 7.28 d 1H 7.18 m 3H 7.00 m 5H 4.32 m 1H 3.83 m 2H 3.26 m 8H 2.81 m 6H 2.19 m 2H 1.90 m 4H 1.67 m 7H 1.22 m 11H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 8 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane hydrochloride for 3 bromothiophen 2 yl 2 6 dimethoxyphenyl methanone in EXAMPLE 68B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 71B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 23A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.54 s 1H 9.36 br s 1H 8.48 d 1H 7.76 dd 1H 7.53 m 3H 7.34 m 3H 7.00 m 1H 6.84 d 2H 6.81 dd 1H 6.44 d 1H 6.37 br s 1H 4.36 d 2H 3.82 m 3H 3.36 m 2H 3.26 m 4H 3.18 m 2H 2.36 m 3H 2.23 m 4H 1.90 m 3H 1.81 m 2H 1.62 m 5H 1.40 m 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 4 bromobenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide for 2 bromobenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in EXAMPLE 61B.

EXAMPLE 72A 40 mg 1S 2S 3S 5R 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 amine 100 l 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl 9.2 mg palladium II acetate 2.4 mg and sodium tert butoxide 14 mg were added to toluene 0.2 mL the reaction was purged with nitrogen and heated at 100 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled then diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration the crude material was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using 94 6 hexanes ethyl acetate.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 72C for EXAMPLE 8E and EXAMPLE 23A for EXAMPLE 2D in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.97 br s 1H 8.65 t 1H 8.63 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.28 d 1H 7.06 br s 2H 6.95 d 2H 6.90 v br s 2H 6.26 s 1H 3.85 m 2H 3.50 m 5H 3.33 t 2H 3.25 m 2H 2.38 m 3H 2.00 m 1H 1.94 m 2H 1.80 m 1H 1.60 m 3H 1.25 m 5H 1.21 s 3H 1.09 d 1H 1.00 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 3 bromobenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide for 2 bromobenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in EXAMPLE 61B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 73C for EXAMPLE 8E and EXAMPLE 23A for EXAMPLE 2D in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.00 br s 1H 8.68 t 1H 8.63 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.30 d 1H 7.18 v br s 2H 6.96 d 2H 6.75 v br s 2H 6.26 s 1H 3.85 m 2H 3.50 m 5H 3.37 t 2H 3.25 m 2H 2.40 m 2H 2.37 m 1H 2.00 m 1H 1.94 m 2H 1.80 m 1H 1.60 m 3H 1.25 m 5H 1.20 s 3H 1.12 d 1H 1.00 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 4A using 4 boronobenzoic acid in place of 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid and 6 bromo 4H chromen 4 one in place of 1 bromo 3 iodobenzene.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 76A in place of EXAMPLE 1A and 4 adamantan 1 ylmethyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.95 s 1H 8.52 d 1H 8.40 t 1H 8.33 d 1H 8.25 d 1H 8.15 d 1H 8.00 d 2H 7.89 d 1H 7.73 m 2H 7.16 d 1H 6.40 d 1H 4.03 m 1H 3.13 d 2H 1.99 m 3H 1.65 m 3H 1.58 s 6H .

To a slurry of NaH 60 in mineral oil 271 mg 6.77 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 20 mL was added 4 iodo 1H pyrazole 1.25 g 6.44 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 30 minutes. 1 Octyl bromide 1.22 mL 7.08 mmol was then added and the reaction stirred for 24 hours. The mixture was poured into water 200 mL and the resulting solution was extracted three times with ether. The combined ether extracts were washed three times with water and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the title compound.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 4A using 4 boronobenzoic acid in place of 4 methoxycarbonyl phenylboronic acid and EXAMPLE 77A in place of 1 bromo 3 iodobenzene.

The title compound was prepared as described in EXAMPLE 1B using EXAMPLE 77B in place of EXAMPLE 1A and 4 adamantan 1 ylmethyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in place of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.95 s 1H 8.55 d 1H 8.43 t 1H 8.23 s 1H 7.90 m 3H 7.55 d 2H 7.19 d 1H 4.03 m 1H 3.14 d 2H 1.97 m 3H 1.78 t 2H 1.65 m 5H 1.58 s 6H 1.23 br s 10H 0.84 t 3H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1 adamantanemethylamine for cyclohexylmethylamine in EXAMPLE 2D.

5 Bromo 2 methylbenzothiazole 1000 mg was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 25 mL and the mixture was cooled to 78 C. using an isopropanol dry ice bath. Lithium diisopropylamide 1.5M in cyclohexane 4.40 mL was added and the solution stirred for 30 minutes at 78 C. Methyl 3 bromopropionate 1.20 mL 1836 mg was added and the solution stirred at 78 C. for two hours. The reaction was quenched with 1M aqueous hydrochloric acid extracted with ethyl acetate washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 10 ethyl acetate hexanes.

EXAMPLE 78B 275 mg 4 carboxyphenylboronic acid 160 mg sodium carbonate 2M aqueous 1.1 mL and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II dichloromethane adduct 65 mg were added to dimethylformamide 1.5 mL ethanol 1.5 mL and water 0.5 mL which had been degassed and flushed with nitrogen three times. The solution was heated to 90 C. and stirred for 16 hours. The solution was cooled added to water extracted with ethyl acetate washed with brine dried on anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel using 5 methanol in ethyl acetate to obtain the ethyl ester product via transesterification with the ethanol solvent.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 78C for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 78A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 78D for EXAMPLE 2A in EXAMPLE 2B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.52 br s 1H 12.13 br s 1H 8.68 d 1H 8.59 t 1H 8.31 d 1H 8.17 d 1H 8.00 7.91 m 5H 7.78 dd 1H 7.38 d 1H 3.22 3.13 m 4H 2.39 t 2H 2.05 m 2H 1.97 br s 4H 2.66 m 4H 1.58 br s 6H 0.86 m 1H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1R 5S 1 8 8 trimethyl 3 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane for benzyl 2 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 octane 6 carboxylate in EXAMPLE 8A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 79B for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.99 br s 1H 8.63 d 1H 8.28 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.74 d 2H 7.39 d 1H 6.80 d 2H 3.95 m 1H 3.88 m 2H 3.47 m 2H 3.40 d 1H 3.22 d 1H 3.18 d 1H 2.84 d 1H 1.90 m 4H 1.62 m 4H 1.40 m 1H 0.92 s 3H 0.90 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 6 3 adaman 1 yl 4 methoxy phenyl naphthalene 2 carboxylic acid for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 2D for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.57 br s 1H 8.70 d 1H 8.65 t 1H 8.57 s 1H 8.21 s 1H 8.10 d 1H 8.06 d 1H 8.00 dd 1H 7.88 m 2H 7.66 dd 1H 7.58 d 1H 7.28 d 1H 7.13 d 1H 3.87 s 3H 2.63 br s 6H 2.07 br s 4H 1.78 1.62 m 12H 1.26 1.15 m 4H 1.01 t 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 81A for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.05 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.40 d 1H 6.95 d 2H 3.94 m 1H 3.87 m 2H 3.60 m 4H 3.45 m 2H 3.29 m 4H 2.15 s 2H 1.90 m 5H 1.60 m 14H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 1 adamantanemethylamine for 2 adamantylmethyl amine hydrochloride in EXAMPLE 50A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 82B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 41A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B.

The title compound was prepared by substituting tert butyl piperidin 4 ylcarbamate for benzyl 2 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 octane 6 carboxylate in EXAMPLE 8A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 41A for EXAMPLE 2D and EXAMPLE 83D for EXAMPLE 8E in EXAMPLE 8F. H NMR 300 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.00 br s 1H 8.64 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.76 d 2H 7.39 d 1H 7.10 d 1H 6.92 d 2H 3.90 m 6H 3.45 m 2H 2.92 m 2H 1.90 br s 6H 1.70 m 15H 1.45 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared by substituting 2 adamantanamine hydrochloride for 2 adamantylmethyl amine hydrochloride in EXAMPLE 50A.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 84B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 41A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 11.82 s 1H 8.63 d 1H 8.29 d 1H 7.94 dd 1H 7.61 d 2H 7.38 d 1H 6.64 d 2H 3.95 m 1H 3.88 m 2H 3.36 m 1H 3.47 m 2H 2.01 m 2H 1.92 m 4H 1.83 m 6H 1.70 m 4H 1.50 m 2H .

Ethyl 4 iodobenzoate 276 mg 1R 2R 3R 5S 2 6 6 trimethylbicyclo 3.1.1 heptan 3 ol 154 mg 1 10 phenanthroline 36 mg copper iodide 19 mg and cesium carbonate 652 mg were combined in toluene 0.5 mL . The reaction was heated to 120 C. over 36 hours. The reaction mixture was removed from heat allowed to cool diluted with ethyl acetate and poured into water. The organic layer was washed thoroughly with water and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was purified by flash chromatography eluting with 95 5 hexanes ether.

The title compound was prepared by substituting EXAMPLE 85B for EXAMPLE 1A and EXAMPLE 41A for 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide in EXAMPLE 1B. H NMR 500 MHz dimethylsulfoxide d 12.26 br s 1H 8.66 d 1H 8.30 d 1H 7.95 dd 1H 7.82 d 2H 7.40 d 1H 7.03 d 2H 4.67 m 1H 3.96 m 1H 3.88 m 2H 3.47 m 3H 2.65 m 1H 2.36 m 1H 2.25 m 1H 1.93 m 3H 1.85 m 1H 1.64 m 3H 1.23 s 3H 1.10 d 3H 0.99 s 3H .

