---

title: Messaging system having multiple number, dual mode phone support
abstract: A social messaging hub provides communication services for a data enabled device having Internet network access capabilities. The social messaging hub communicates with the data enabled device over the Internet or cellular data networks, and interfaces with a message infrastructure including mobile carriers, message aggregators, message exchanges and various specialized social messaging services to enable bi-directional messaging communication. The user is given a registered phone number and unique IP addressable identification which serve as a source and destination identifier of the associated data enabled device. Messages may originate in or be delivered to other users' mobile telephones or in similarly equipped and provisioned IP data enabled devices. An application operating on the IP enabled device determines in conjunction with the social messaging hub a mode of transmission as a function of parameters including device location and destination of a message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356907&OS=09356907&RS=09356907
owner: HeyWire, Inc.
number: 09356907
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120406
---
This application is a continuation in part of United States Patent Application having Ser. No. 13 111 109 entitled SOCIAL MESSAGING HUB filed May 19 2011 that shares inventorship with the present application and which is a continuation in part of United States Patent Application having Ser. No. 12 535 323 entitled SMS TECHNOLOGY FOR COMPUTERIZED DEVICES filed Aug. 4 2009 that shares inventorship with the present application and which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 61 137 918 entitled Apparatus and methods for TV social applications filed Aug. 5 2008 61 164 705 entitled SMS Technology for Computerized Devices filed Mar. 30 2009. This application claims the benefit of the filing date of earlier filed United States Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 346 133 entitled SOCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM AND DEVICES filed May 19 2010 that shares inventorship with the present application earlier filed United States Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 473 508 entitled SOCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM filed Apr. 8 2011 that shares inventorship with the present application and earlier filed United States Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 473 542 entitled SOCIAL MESSAGING SYSTEM HAVING MULTIPLE NUMBER DUAL MODE PHONE SUPPORT filed Apr. 8 2011 that shares inventorship with the present application. The entire teachings and contents of these Patent Applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates to messaging and communications and to mobile telephony text messaging instant messaging multimedia messaging personal computers and data enabled digital devices.

People around the world are confronted by a number of communications and writing devices which have evolved relatively recently from the separate areas of telephone communications networks wireless networks television or cable networks and computer networks and personal computers. The more recent devices mobile phones with message picture video texting personal digital devices for Internet browsing and computer based blogging and social networking sites have been shaped in part by the separate networks of origin but the nature and capabilities of many of these now ubiquitous devices have both converged and also advanced quickly in different directions as the industries controlling each sector have capitalized on their market power reservoir of legacy subscribers and in some cases regulatory barriers and proprietary network equipment and connection protocols to introduce new consumer features often employing developments from other consumer products and aiming to lure subscribers by mimicking those products. However in doing so each industry has also been limited by its own equipment data transfer speeds and connection abilities.

Thus as digital imaging advanced and consumers learned to take and handle images and to attach the images to e mail messages imaging chipsets were incorporated into mobile telephones and the mobile phones were configured to display images and allow their transmission between phones. Text and message protocols allowed transmission of instant messages and coded standardized greetings and messages between phone users filling a niche for immediate portable personal communication that was not met by existing personal computer devices. Devices like the iPhone introduced in 2007 allowed a user to access his Internet based email from his mobile phone via a specially configured data connection with his mobile service provider and to exchange content via wireless connection to his personal computer.

However despite these developments blurring boundaries between the classical phone mobile telephone Internet wireless and television or cable networks there has not been a convergence. Rather although industry and government groups have promoted interface standards for several different classes of data or communication each industry has retained much of its special structure and the devices served by an industry such as mobile telephones may find their feature set constrained by intrinsic limitations of bandwidth and connectivity by available networking equipment base and by the level of contractual cooperation agreements of its provider. The many different classes of communications systems now available and the many separate provider networks in each class have also required the development of new supporting entities such as nationally or internationally extending registries aggregators exchanges and other entities in order to affect timely transfer of data messages and or entertainment content. This second level infrastructure imposes further constraints of the feasible or economically feasible set of features that a consumer may exercise. Thus for example mobile telephones have been augmented with a display and the ability to run small applications such as games MP3 players Internet browsers applications and email retrieval while personal computers have the capability to run larger programs employ wireless connectivity and perform voice over IP VoIP Internet communications. Various special purpose applications requiring cross platform connections may be provided or applications simulating cross platform capabilities may be developed by a service provider such as a television displayed chat session available for subscribers of a TV provider. However many other personal devices while having large data capacity ability to connect to another user device and ability to run entertainment apps may entirely lack the mobile telephone electronic circuitry necessary for exchanging mobile messages with telephone users. Additionally the delivery of messages in some social messaging systems is affected by limitations of carrier networks and international boundaries. It is therefore desirable to provide a system for enhanced communication between personal devices.

Enhanced communication between personal devices is achieved in accordance with one aspect of the invention by a system for communication with a data enabled device although lacking mobile phone hardware and software includes Internet network access capabilities. Such data enabled devices include but are not limited to an iPod Touch iPad portable e Reader a personal computer a portable game player a game console a laptop a television settop receiver a television set or a netbook computer. The user of a non telephony data enabled personal electronic device or a data enabled telephony device e.g. smartphone iPhone is given a registered phone number or an additional phone number for data enabled telephony devices which serves to identify the source device in messages originating from the user of service on the data enabled device. The phone number also serves to indicate destination in messages directed to the user of the service on the non telephony data enabled device. Such messages may originate in mobile telephones of other users or in similarly equipped and provisioned non telephony or telephony data enabled devices of other users. A social messaging hub operates such that incoming mobile text messages multi media messages are transparently routed locally or internationally through existing Short Message Service Multimedia Messaging Service Enhanced Messaging Service SMS MMS EMS messaging infrastructures including messaging aggregation and delivery organizations thus messaging bi directionally between mobile phones and the user s non telephony data device or smartphone. Instant messaging communications is also facilitated by the social messaging hub.

The registered phone number may be acquired through or serviced by a competitive local exchange carrier CLEC local exchange carrier LEC or other provider that is authorized to issue registered phone numbers and the set of numbers so issued may be serviced by that carrier s network or by a separate entity or sub entity herein called a network unaffiliated virtual operator NUVO that serves as the service provider to users and functions as a destination carrier to receive messages directed to its telephone numbers i.e. the numbers assigned by the NUVO to the user s data enabled device from the message aggregator or carrier and to provide an Internet interface for delivery of the messages to users non telephony devices. The NUVO operating the social messaging hub receives messages from the user s data device over the Internet and transmit the messages through a connection to entities in a messaging infrastructure e.g. a message aggregator or a carrier for delivery to the mobile phones or non telephony or telephony data enabled devices of intended recipients. The NUVO also receives SMS MMS messages via the aggregator entity or carrier when these are directed to the registered phone number of a user served by the NUVO and transmits these messages to or allows web access from the user s non telephony or telephony data enabled device or mobile phone over the Internet. In this manner the non telephony data enabled device lacking a mobile telephony chip set or software simulates the messaging abilities of a mobile phone. The non telephony personal device is thus rendered SMS MMS and EMS capable. For data enabled devices the registered phone number may be seen as and is sometimes referred to below as a virtual phone number making the device addressable by mobile phones without the need for any special applications or software updates. When a data enabled mobile phone is enabled by the NUVO a secondary or alternative phone number to the one assigned by default can be used to send and receive messages separately under the NUVO phone number. This allows a user to operate two lines for example with personal and business numbers in a single mobile device such as a smart phone.

In one embodiment a technique for messaging communications with a data enabled device includes obtaining a plurality of unique identifiers assigning to a user of the data enabled device a unique identifier from the plurality of unique identifiers associating the unique identifier with a data enabled device identifier. The technique further includes registering the unique identifier to data enabled device identifier association in a database receiving a message from a message source through a message service directed to the user s data enabled device having the registered unique identifier obtained from the message source providing the message using the database to identify the destination of message to an inbound service establishing a connection between a data enabled device and the inbound service and pushing the message from the inbound service to an application running on the data enabled device.

Such a technique overcomes the limitations of carrier networks and international boundaries. Significantly this technique provides a telephone number to the user thus invoking many of the legal rights enjoyed by telephone subscribers in the user s jurisdiction. The service may appeal especially to parents who do not want their children to have mobile phones but understand the value of texting and other messaging for the child s social life enabling communications and educational development or who wish to have each family member in a family plan service but without the high costs associated with full mobile telephony plans. In this case the virtual phone number may be viewed as a placeholder for later telephone service for example when the child graduates beyond elementary school. From the provider perspective because the use of a virtual phone number for addressing SMS MMS EMS messages neither requires nor involves the extensive tracking and routing infrastructure that supports mobile voice calling but can be supported by a simple web based server network they may offer virtual number messaging services at attractive and affordable rates without incurring incremental capital requirements.

Indeed all subscriber messages are transmitted over the Internet through one or more servers and a message aggregation entity in the messaging infrastructure so the entire service may be set up as a small third party or outside NUVO or as similarly small Internet coupled server operation within an existing mobile carrier or land line network. When offered by an existing mobile carrier to a subscriber with an existing mobile phone the system enables a user to additionally log onto a web based service to send and receive SMS MMS messages with his PC or other data enabled device. Such a web based service may also operate to send and receive messages identified by a user s land line phone number even if the user s land line fixed phone is not SMS MMS EMS capable. The social messaging hub may be configured to exchange user messages with common messaging entities such as Microsoft Windows Live Messenger AIM Yahoo GoogleTalk Twitter Facebook and others so that texting mobile phones and non telephony data devices can enjoy substantially similar messaging capabilities. When offered by an existing mobile carrier to a subscriber with an existing mobile phone the system enables a user to additionally use a secondary phone number simultaneously with his primary phone number to send and receive SMS MMS EMS messages with his mobile phone in essence providing a duality of identifications on a single device.

An exemplary social messaging hub for Short Message Service Multimedia Messaging Service Enhanced Messaging Service SMS MMS EMS communications includes an SMS provider a inbound service coupled to the SMS provider a database coupled to the inbound service and a web server a Representational State Transfer REST service coupled to the web server and a data push server coupled to the REST service. In other aspects of the social messaging hub the data push server includes an interface to a push notification server a notification queue and a queue listener. Another aspect of the social messaging hub the messaging hub includes a common message conversation queue.

Advantageously the social messaging hub runs software for converting messages into the different formats and employed in each of the foregoing messaging environments and may include software for filing and maintaining all the text multi media messages of a user for later or simultaneous access transmission or retransmission to the user s blogs Facebook and other contacts. The social messaging hub allows a user to send one message across several social networks via text messaging instant messaging IM and other Internet protocol IP based messaging formats to multiple contacts in one operation.

A data enabled device also referred to as the Wi Fi mobile device having dual mode Internet network access capabilities operates with software to optimize cost and to efficiently display content or effect communications when traveling internationally away from a home locale or when using a limited data transmission plan. Internal software controls SMS transmission so as to minimize international text messaging charges and preferably also establishes Internet connection via Wi Fi connection for accessing content such as advertising content appearing on the device s display. For use in a foreign country the device may be fitted with a SIM card of the foreign country carrier a local SIM card and operate as a normal mobile phone to receive local calls while it is configured to automatically send SMS messages via Wi Fi or using data capabilities associated with the data local SIM card when Wi Fi connectivity is unavailable.

Another embodiment implements multiple telephone numbers per single account software client hardware device. Since the invention of the telephone there has typically been a 1 to 1 relationship one telephone number and one device account. Even with the introduction of software based applications on devices such as smartphones and PC s e.g. Skype a secondary or multiple telephone numbers is possible on a single device but requires different accounts and different software clients for each telephone number. In this embodiment A social messaging hub for Short Message Service Multimedia Messaging Service Enhanced Messaging Service SMS MMS EMS communications includes an SMS provider an inbound service coupled to the SMS provider a database coupled to the inbound service and a web server a Hub application operating on the web server and comprising a plurality of message services and a transmission mode selector wherein the transmission mode selector comprises an ad controller. The system further includes a common inbox where messages addressed to multiple phone numbers and messages addressed to multiple accounts associated with an IP address are delivered to the common inbox.

Such a system enables the user to utilize multiple country or domestic telephone numbers identities on same account software client and a single device. In addition because the technique is IP based in network technology it is geographically independent of country borders operate globally without consideration to factors such as roaming . This technique reduces costs to users and enables geographic independence.

The ability to utilize multiple telephone numbers and or IP based address accounts on a single account software hardware device without having to setup or utilize different account software clients hardware device including dual multiple SIM devices while reducing message transmission and data charges is desirable. In one embodiment a technique for selecting a wireless device mode of transmission includes communicating with a messaging hub determining an identity of the wireless device determining a location of the wireless device and determining a mode of transmission to reduce transmission charges. The technique further includes determining a destination of an SMS message and notifying the messaging hub to delay sending advertising content. Such a technique can reduce the costs associated with sending and receiving SMS text messages.

Embodiments of the invention include any type of computerized device workstation handheld tablet or laptop computer or the like configured with software and or circuitry e.g. a processor to process any or all of the method operations disclosed herein. In other words a computerized device or a processor that is programmed or configured to operate as explained herein is considered an embodiment of the invention.

Other embodiments of the invention that are disclosed herein include software programs to perform the steps and operations summarized above and disclosed in detail below. One such embodiment comprises a computer program product that has a computer readable medium including computer program logic encoded thereon that when performed in a computerized device having a coupling of a memory and a processor and a display programs the processor to perform the operations disclosed herein. Such arrangements are typically provided as software code and or other data e.g. data structures arranged or encoded on a computer readable medium such as an optical medium e.g. CD ROM floppy or hard disk or other a medium such as firmware or microcode in one or more ROM or RAM or PROM chips or as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . The software or firmware or other such configurations can be installed onto a computerized device to cause the computerized device to perform the techniques explained herein. Other configurations include web applications browsers IP applications and data enabled device applications as will be explained in more detail.

It is to be understood that the features of the social messaging hub can be embodied strictly as a software program as software and hardware or as hardware alone such as within a single processor or multiple processors or within an operating system or within a software application.

A social messaging hub combines text chat and IM across multiple screens and enables users to access social media via SMS from anywhere in the world. The social messaging hub enables users to stay socially connected via social media sites regardless of their geographic location. The social messaging hub enables users to seamlessly interact with their favorite social sites and communication platforms.

Now referring to an exemplary social messaging hub operates in network environment which includes messaging infrastructure . The social messaging hub includes one or more processors and is coupled to the network environment and messaging infrastructure through a firewall . The firewall is typically located at a social messaging hub hosting facility.

The messaging infrastructure includes but is not limited to a Short Message Service Center SMSC a third party SMS aggregator also referred to a SMS aggregator a billing and provisioning system an SMS Gateway SMS GW social messaging gateways and a cellular phone infrastructure . Other components of the messaging infrastructure include a Mobile Switching Centre MSC and additional SMS Gateways and other SMSCs and billing and provisioning systems provided by additional mobile carrier service providers not shown . The SMSC and the billing and provisioning system are typically operated by a mobile carrier service provider. The MSC is also typically operated by a mobile carrier service provider. The social messaging gateways include connections to IM services for example AOL instant messenger AIM Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger Jabber Skype Tencent QQ ICQ and GoogleTalk gTalk and other social networks such as Facebook and Twitter.

In one embodiment the social messaging hub communicates with the systems in the messaging infrastructure e.g. SMSC the third party SMS aggregator and the billing and provisioning system using various network protocols including the Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol Signaling Transport SIGTRAN protocol or SS7 protocol. The SMPP protocol is a telecommunications industry protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities.

In this embodiment the link between the social messaging hub and the messaging infrastructure is secured by the firewall using for example a virtual private network VPN connection with HTTPS using 1024 bit 3DES SHA1 encryption. Messages are transferred over SMPP link and provisioning and single sign on SSO XML and SOAP messages and other control traffic are interchanged over control link . In another embodiment messages are transferred over SIGTRAN SS7 over IP depending on the connection e.g. a connection to a European Mobile Operator .

The social messaging hub is connected via the Internet or a dedicated connection to the messaging infrastructure that relays messages between existing customer equipment for example a mobile phone a data enabled mobile phone a data enabled WiFi phone and other data enabled devices not shown such as a laptop netbook tablet and a smart phone. The mobile phone can be connected to the social messaging hub over the cellular phone infrastructure through the SMSC using an SMS protocol. The MSC is also connected to the cellular phone infrastructure . The data enabled mobile phone can be connected to the social messaging hub over the cellular phone infrastructure using a data connection provided by OTA WAP protocols. A data enabled WiFi phone can be connected to the social messaging hub via a WiFi connection to the Internet. It is understood that a mobile phone can be data enabled via both a WAP connection and a WiFi connection. The data enabled WiFi phone is sometimes referred to as a dual mode phone if it can also connect over WAP. As referred to herein a non telephony device is a data enabled device which does not incorporate mobile phone hardware and software and which sends and receives SMS messages over a IP channel in contrast to mobile phone which sends and receives SMS messages over standard cellular phone control channel.

A laptop personal computer can be connected to the social messaging hub via a wired Internet connection or a wireless Internet connection not shown . Other mobile portable data enabled devices not shown include but are not limited to a portable media players personal digital assistants Wi Fi mobile platforms pad tablet computers portable e Readers personal computers portable game players game consoles and netbook computers which can be connected to the social messaging hub via the Internet using a WiFi wired or other wireless connection. These devices the data enabled mobile phone and the data enabled WiFi phone are collectively referred to as adata enabled device or devices and these devices generally establish an Internet protocol IP session or connection with the social messaging hub . Some data enabled devices interface with the social messaging hub using a client browser and other data enabled devices interface with the social messaging hub using a client software component also referred to as a client application or simply app . The client browser communication to a corresponding web application and the client application app are collectively referred to as application .

In operation and as described below in more detail the social messaging hub obtains a plurality of unique identifiers which in one embodiment are telephone numbers acquired through or serviced by a competitive local exchange carrier CLEC local exchange carrier LEC or other provider that is authorized to issue or service registered phone numbers and the set of numbers so issued may be serviced by that carrier s network another carrier network or by a separate entity or sub entity such as a network unaffiliated virtual operator NUVO that serves as the service provider to users and functions as a destination carrier to receive messages directed to its telephone numbers from the SMS aggregator an SMS operator e.g. a mobile carrier a content provider or another NUVO and to provide an Internet interface for delivery of the messages to users data enabled devices .

The social messaging hub assigns a user of a data enabled device a unique identifier from the plurality of unique identifiers and the social messaging hub associates the unique identifier with a data enabled device identifier. The data enabled device identifier includes but is not limited to a network address a Unique Device Identifier UDID a Media Access Control address MAC address a International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID a Electronic Serial Number ESN and a CPU serial number of the data enabled device . The social messaging hub registers the association between the unique identifier with a data enabled device identifier in a database. After the user is assigned a unique identifier a userid and password is when the application is started. When the user registers the enabled device and signs in to an IM service or social media account e.g. AIM Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger and GoogleTalk Facebook Twitter etc. the account information is stored in certain embodiments on the user s data enabled device in a mini database for app. Previously stored login signon information can be retrieved in order to sign on the user automatically.

In one embodiment the user is given a registered phone number and unique IP addressable identification. The IP addressable identification is a connectionless method by which the user supplied email address supplied as part of the registration process for contact purposes is combined with the unique registered phone number. By affecting such a combination of two unique identifiers each supplied by separate parties a unique identification is created that can be located in a connectionless manner on the Internet.

For inbound messages i.e. sent to the data enabled device the social messaging hub receives the text message from the messaging infrastructure e.g. message service SMSC or SMS aggregator . The message is directed to the user s data enabled device having the registered unique identifier obtained from the text message source and the social messaging hub provides the message to an inbound service establishes a connection between a data enabled device and the inbound service and pushes the text message from the inbound service to an application or web browser running on the data enabled device .

For outbound messages i.e. sent from the data enabled device . the social messaging hub receives the text message from the data enabled device including a destination identifier for the message processing the message and provide the message to SMS destination through the messaging infrastructure e.g. SMSC or SMS aggregator for delivery to the message recipient.

The social messaging hub can submit multiple messages in one transmission using a 1 to many feature in conjunction with the application i.e. web client or smart phone app . The social messaging hub transfers messages between data enabled devices without the use of the message infrastructure even if phone numbers are used as the addresses. Provisioning and SSO are incorporated in the social messaging hub such that once a registered phone number and other user information is stored in database connections and logins can be established automatically.

As described below in conjunction with the social messaging hub may be configured to interface and exchange messages with various specialized social messaging services such as AIM Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger GoogleTalk Facebook Twitter as well as SMS MMS capable mobile phones and smart phones and operates such that incoming mobile text messages are transparently routed locally or internationally through existing SMS MMS delivery organizations in the messaging infrastructure.

More generally embodiments of the social messaging hub include an application which enables a user sometimes referred to herein as a subscriber to perform SMS MMS EMS or chat activities using a data enabled device such as an iPod Touch iPad portable e Reader a personal computer a portable game player a game console a laptop a television set or a netbook computer all of which can connect to the Internet. Messaging is carried out bi directionally between the data enabled device non telephony device smartphone or other data devices and other SMS capable devices. The social messaging hub is implemented without any add ons that is without requiring the user to attach accessory electronic devices and is implemented via a the social messaging hub that maintains an Internet connected server that interfaces with certain wireless messaging facilities in the messaging infrastructure to establish device to wireless communications. In different embodiments the social messaging hub may be a separate dedicated entity or may be a service entity set up within a mobile service provider to service data enabled devices of some of the provider s subscribers. Further the social messaging hub may provide applications for managing the address books messages and account information of the user.

When the social messaging hub is a separate message service center entity the social messaging hub operations may be incorporated by one or more mobile providers to extend their subscriber service capabilities and the provider entity may provide dedicated connections for affecting coordination between services call logs and billing for the affected accounts.

Features of the social messaging hub may be provided within or as external hosting services communicating with an existing mobile network provider as a web based application using advanced web capabilities and may be configured to handle all forms of messaging for the subscribers. In such embodiments a web client application provides the user with a single integrated interface wherein the subscriber can view or send SMS MMS EMS messages tweets integrated with Twitter chat for which the system supports MSN or AIM or Yahoo or GoogleTalk or Facebook or other similar IM service as the chat client or status for example Facebook Status. Subscription Unsubscription operations can be performed from a web client running on any data enabled device that supports standard Internet browsers or from IP based applications.

The SMS provider is interfaced to a web farm having one or more servers collectively referred to as web server . The servers store the SMS MMS EMS messages received and SMS MMS EMS messages to be delivered in conjunction with database server and database . The servers also support a Hub application which runs in conjunction an application on data enabled device here laptop or smart phone . The web farm is coupled to a database server and corresponding database which is used to store user information including the association between the assigned unique identifiers and data enabled device identifiers.

The social messaging hub further includes a common message conversation queue which is interfaced to the database and the message processing engine . The social messaging hub further includes a Twitter service connected to a Twitter application programming interface API a Facebook Service connected to a Facebook API and an IM Service connected to an IM services API . The Hub application provides support the Twitter service the Facebook Service and the IM Service and connection from these services to the applications including browsers and apps running on the data enabled devices .

The database server is connected to a message processing engine which has an associated message processing database . Database server in conjunction with database primarily stores SMS messages and certain user information and it is used when interfacing to the messaging infrastructure . Database is used in conjunction with other messaging functions such as IM Chat etc.

The components of the social messaging hub in one embodiment are developed in C C JAVA or other suitable programming language and include web servers such as Apache Microsoft Internet Information Services platform IIS or other suitable server systems operating on a UNIX Microsoft or other operating system platform to store and communicate messages to Internet devices. An exemplary software framework for the social messaging hub includes the following 

The Hub application on servers runs on a .Net framework and is hosted on a Microsoft IIS7 system on a windows 2008 server.

The database is a relational database implemented in this embodiment using a 2008 SQL Server and the message processing engine is implemented as a COMET server using Frozen Mountain s COMET engine using .net framework on IIS7 .

The Twitter service is a .Net WCF based service which communicates with Twitter via a Twitter API to provide the Twitter feed to the applications .

Implementations for specific social messaging entities and devices are schematically illustrated in which for purposes of discussion reference the above described software and other communications elements. It is understood however that the servers interfaces and other hardware and software elements of each system may vary within a broad range so long as the system is well integrated with its operative components and is configured to communicate effectively with the other messaging entities involved.

In operation the SMS provider determines from the destination of a received message where to route the message through the messaging infrastructure . The message may be routed through to one of the SMSC the SMS aggregator the SMS GW or other communications entity operated by a mobile operator aggregator or some other intermediary.

The social messaging hub consolidates message delivery into a common message conversation queue and intermixes messages from other messaging services including presence activity and geographic location data into the common message conversation queue . This consolidation allows the social messaging hub to enable personal replies to be threaded back to the user s social inbox so individual chat conversations can continue across multiple data enabled devices to provide multi screen messaging. Texting conversations follow users from the Facebook App to their smartphone or tablet and vice versa. A user can read a message from anywhere and respond on any device with the same phone number. Chat based systems such as Facebook are operated using the common message conversation queue to facilitate combined common message conversations.

When used to support multiple mobile network providers advantageously the social messaging hub is configurable for each provider. An instance of the social messaging hub is set up for each provider and includes separate instances of the database Twitter service Facebook service IM services message processing engine and the SMS provider . It is understood that the various server functions of the social messaging hub could be run on a single computer or multiple computers storage could be provided by individual storage media or a storage area network.

The social messaging hub includes a transmission mode selector which operates in conjunction with the message processing engine and an interface management program of the smart phone client app to select a mode of transmission as a function of user preferences user location and other parameters as described below in further detail in conjunction with . The transmission mode selector also operates to control transmission of mobile advertisements in conjunction with an ad selector blocker which is also coupled to the message processing engine and a real time ad network. The operation of the ad selector blocker is described below in further detail. The social messaging hub includes a common inbox which collects messages directed to several numbers phone numbers IP addresses and email addresses . The operation of the common inbox is described below in further detail in conjunction with .

Outbound SMS MMS messages are sent to the SMS provider which in turn relays the message to the messaging infrastructure e.g. SMS Aggregator or the SMSC . It is the responsibility for example of the SMSC to send this message to the receiving party s addressee s device. Inbound SMS MMS EMS messages for a user of the social messaging hub are received by the SMS provider from the SMSC . The SMS provider relays the message to an inbound service which stores the message in the social messaging hub database and also relays it to the message processing engine . The message processing engine sends this message to the subscribed application if an active session is available. If an active session is not available the messages are stored in queue for delivery upon next login of the recipient

Now referring to in one embodiment a social messaging hub includes the Twitter service subsystem and the Twitter API . The Twitter service subsystem can provide a web or application interface Twitter Hub Application . In operation the application on the data enabled device connects to the Twitter hub application . In the case of PC the Twitter hub application provides a web application to run in conjunction with a browser on the data enabled device . In one embodiment the user uses a short code e.g. 40404 and sends an SMS message Start in establish a connection with the Twitter Service . The user then can proceed to send and receive Tweets via SMS messaging.

When used from a data enabled device operating a web browser a web client connects to the Twitter Service through the web server running the Twitter Hub application component of the Hub application . After user login and authentication the user opens a Twitter Panel and the Twitter Hub application displays recent Twitter feeds to the user. The web server sends the Twitter user information to the Twitter service also referred to a SocialServicePolling web service which polls the Twitter service through a Twitter API periodically for feed updates. When a new feed is received from Twitter the Twitter service forwards the feed to the web server through the inbound service . The inbound service relays this feed to the message processing engine which sends the feed to the subscribed web client if it is connected.

The social messaging hub implementation of Twitter messaging advantageously enables users of the social messaging hub to receive the Tweets of the people that they are following on Twitter via SMS on a global basis with no regard to national country borders. In conventional implementations service a person can only receive the Tweets of the people they are following on Twitter via SMS within the home native country of their mobile carrier provider. For example if a local carrier is the providing mobile carrier for a user once the person leaves the US the Tweets delivered by SMS directed to the user s mobile phone are not delivered. This is due partly to cost partly business contracts lack of contracts between Twitter and mobile carriers and technology limitations.

Using the assigned unique identifier the user can use multiple devices in conjunction with the unique identifier to send and receive messages worldwide without having to constantly change messaging services. The Facebook service operates in a manner similar to the Twitter Service described above in conjunction with . The common message conversation queue enables personal replies to be threaded back to the user s social inbox so individual chat conversations can continue across multiple data enabled devices to provide multi screen messaging. The user can also use a Group Message feature by sending text and chat messages out to Facebook IM s and through SMS to contacts in the user s mobile address book. Texting conversations follow users from the Facebook App to their smartphone or tablet and vice versa. A user can read a message from anywhere and respond on any device with the same phone number.

In another embodiment not shown the social messaging hub provides the ability to send and receive SMS message with a user s own phone number from within the user s Facebook account. A Facebook application executes within Facebook to utilize SMS with the user s assigned phone number for sending and receiving SMS. The Facebook application logs onto servers in the social messaging hub establishing an IP session while the user is within Facebook. Operationally this is similar to when the user is connected to the social messaging hub from a data enabled device with an IP connection but the messages are received from and delivered to the Facebook application. The connection of the Facebook application to the social messaging hub allows a Facebook user to send and receive SMS from within Facebook without having to exit Facebook. Other users in the outside world are not aware of whether the user is in Facebook or on their phone or other data enabled device .

Now referring to in another embodiment a social messaging hub includes an Instant Messaging IM service and an IM Hub application component of the Hub application . In operation the web client connects to the web server which is running the IM Hub application . After user login and authentication and the user opens an IM Panel supplied by the social messaging hub in the web client the user is authenticated by the IM web site. Once authenticated the user can chat with friends through the IM panel. The chat messages are not handled directly by the social messaging hub but are handled by IM services . Only the social messaging hub web page is used to send and view the chat messages.

Additionally presence information with regard to the user s IM service address book is communicated through the social messaging hub IM service and displayed in the user s address book for the IM service. The IM services include IM communication using for example AIM Yahoo Messenger Windows Live Messenger and GoogleTalk 

Now referring to another embodiment of a social messaging hub operates with smart phones and other data enabled devices having additional messaging and application features supported by the mobile carrier provider and the phone manufacturer. Examples of such smart phones include smart phones running the Android operating system and Apple Corporation s iPhones and iPods. The social messaging hub includes a set of Representational State Transfer REST web services also referred to as REST web services . The social messaging hub further includes a notification queue and a queue listener which is interfaced to an external Push notification server .

The smart phone client app communicates with the social messaging hub via the REST web services . The first time the smart phone runs the smart phone app the application requests an Auth Token from the REST service. The Auth Token is delivered by the web service via the Push Notification Server . This Auth Token is stored by the smart phone app and passed to the Push Notification service with every subsequent call for verification security purpose.

After getting the Auth Token the smart phone app requests a telephone number. This number is then used by the smart phone app to send and receive SMS MMS EMS messages. The REST web services deliver a unique identifier e.g. a telephone number and also create a User login account that can be used for logging onto the web application. The inbound messages enter the social messaging hub through the SMS provider which connects to the inbound service . The inbound service pushes out a Message Received notification via the Push Notification Server using the notification queue and the queue listener . When the smart phone app gets the Message Received Notification it retrieves the message from the social messaging hub through a connection to the social messaging hub REST services . All the notifications are delivered to the Notification Queue from where they are picked up by the Queue Listener and delivered to the Push Notification Server . The Hub application can initiate a request to upload contacts from the smart phone . This request goes through the notification server and the smart phone app uploads the contacts by calling the REST service . Uploaded contacts allow the social messaging hub to cross reference the contacts allowing a user to send a message via name and be notified of a received message by name instead of phone number. Additionally locator tracking features by name are enabled by contact information. Outbound messages are process by the REST web services as part of the Hub application . The messages are transferred to the SMS provider for delivery through the messaging infrastructure .

To insure that a text message is delivered to the right device and to prevent anyone spoofing the address when a push notification is not available the social messaging hub architecture utilizes a session based communications model requiring authentication by login with userid and password registered devices or a non registered device is being used e.g. a PC Thus it is virtually impossible to have a combination of an unregistered unauthorized or unrecognized device receive messages without some form of legitimate userid password combination to establish the session.

In one specific embodiment supporting the Apple iOS environment i.e. Apple iOS devices iPhone iPod touch iPad etc. the Push Notification Server is an Apple Push Notification Server. When used with a smart phone such as an iPhone a Droid a Windows Mobile based phone or any phone having a GPS chip the system may also be configured with a safety or monitoring application. In one such configuration the system accesses the GPS chip of the mobile device and if the user or account holder such as a parent paying the telephone bill so elects the social messaging hub client application may be set to disable the sending receiving of SMS MMS. In one embodiment the social messaging hub in conjunction with application provides the geographic distance of a user s contacts from the user s present location. In addition use of cell tower triangulation data in combination of IP geo location estimation provides a 3 way or 2 way or 1 way estimation of geographic location.

In flowchart diagrams the overall process of the transmission and reception of SMS messages facilitated by the social messaging hub . In step the social messaging hub obtains a plurality of unique identifiers. In step a user of the data enabled device is assigned a unique identifier from the plurality of unique identifiers. In step the unique identifier is associated with a data enabled device identifier and in step the unique identifier to data enabled device identifier association is registered in the database .

In step a message is received from a message source through a message service in the messaging infrastructure directed to the user s data enabled device having the registered unique identifier obtained from the message source. In step the message is provided by the SMS Provider using the database to identify the destination of message to an inbound service . In step a connection is established between the data enabled device and the inbound service and finally in step the message is pushed from the inbound service to an application running on the data enabled device.

In one embodiment the step of assigning a user a unique identifier includes creating a User login account for logging onto the social messaging hub application at step . A user supplied email address supplied as part of the registration process for contact purposes is combined with the unique registered phone number. Such a combination of two unique identifiers each supplied by separate parties provides a unique identification that can be located in a connectionless manner on the Internet.

In step message delivery is consolidated into a single common message conversation queue followed by step where the intermixing messaging services and presence activity data are intermixed into the single common message conversation queue .

Embodiments disclosed herein provide the ability to utilize multiple telephone numbers and or IP based address accounts on a single account software hardware device without having to setup or utilize different account software clients hardware device including dual multiple SIM devices. This capability is provided in a new feature that enables a person to have assigned multiple telephone numbers that enables on a single device e.g. iPhone tablet iPod smartdevice etc. with the same software application client.

For example an international traveler or even vacation traveler has a US 1 telephone number a UK 44 telephone number and a Hong Kong 852 telephone number all simultaneously. When communicating with someone in the US UK or HK the user can selects and provide the telephone number for that country saving international rates that would be the norm if using a foreign telephone number.

Conventional solutions for international travelers include dual SIM card mobile phones. Unfortunately this solution is difficult to implement and has an awkward human interface. Two SIM cards limit the number of multiple telephone numbers that can be associated to the device.

Previously having multiple telephone numbers from different countries on same device same software client was unavailable due to restrictions involving mobile network operators MNOs also known as mobile phone operator or simply mobile operator or mobo being country specific e.g. ATT is a US operator and even MNO s where they operate in multiple countries e.g. Vodafone each Vodafone entity in a country operates as a separate operating company issuing only that country s telephone numbers .

In one embodiment as shown in through a data enabled device application and corresponding software user interface the user has the ability to have multiple telephone numbers and multiple IP based address accounts . incoming messages directed to any one of the collective addresses are received in a single common Inbox . Outgoing messages are created in step and a determination is made in step as to what telephone number or IP account to use for the origin address of the message from the list of collective address . finally the message is sent to an outbox in step .

Networks e.g. the Comcast network the Verizon network Vodafone network etc. and network status e.g. home vs. roaming 3G vs. WiFi etc. .

In addition to conventional GSM or CMDA mobile phones manufacturers are now adding a Wi Fi capability to mobile phones. For example GSM Wi Fi dual mode IP phones are now available from several manufacturers. Also available are GSM mobile phones with the ability to accommodate multiple Subscriber Identity Module cards SIM cards .

The application can transmit SMS messages via a Wi Fi Internet connection in any device which is Wi Fi enabled or via an Internet data connection in a 3G or 4G or Long Term Evolution LTE mobile phone or other 3G or 4G or LTE enabled devices e.g. the Amazon Kindle Reader Apple iPad etc . In certain embodiments the application takes advantage of this Wi Fi capability in dual mode phones to provide cost optimized content control and cost optimized call connections. The application can also process information from a user s contacts to further enhance the cost optimized content control and cost optimized call connections features by determining the most cost effective method and routing path to send and receive SMS text messages and other associated data items e.g. advertisements meta data etc .

When traveling internationally and using a mobile device provisioned with a user s home local carrier the transmission and reception of SMS messages and the reception of advertising content can be quite expensive. One way to reduce these costs is to provision the mobile device with a SIM card which provides service in a particular country to be visited to use a so called international SIM card or to use a multiple SIM card phone. However even with a SIM card there is typically a charge for SMS text messages or for a data plan with a restricted data allotment typically monthly . In the absence of a Wi Fi connection the application uses a portion of the data allotment usually monthly even when sending free SMS text messages.

As described above advertising content is provided through the application . Ads comprise iAds or clickable banner ads which can either link to a phone optimized microsite a Web page. Clicking on the ad takes you to this microsite. This advertising monetizes the application and the revenue offsets the cost of operating the HeyWire service. Advertising can be turned off when the connection is made through the mobile carrier s data network when an IP connection to free Wi Fi service is not available. Some of the parameters involved in making a determination whether to receive ads are Wi Fi connectivity cost of Wi Fi service details of a user s data plan roaming charges etc. In one embodiment the app once installed prompts the user having a dual mode phone to specify SIM card numbers the availability of Wi Fi connectivity costs data plan details etc. Additionally country appropriate promotional material is provided to the device by the Wi Fi Internet connection when a mobile phone is operated abroad.

When traveling outside a home region or country SMS and data plans are generally charged at much higher rates associated with roaming. For example the rates associated with data plans while roaming can be orders of magnitude more costly than non roaming rate. When roaming SMS text messages outside of the users home region or home country are charged at international rates e.g. US 0.50 roaming vs. US 0.02 local per msg . Therefore the ability to switch to a Wi Fi Internet connection would save a user a considerable amount on SMS messaging charges.

In one aspect of the invention a personal communication device includes multiple communications modes including telephony and Internet communication interfaces either through a Wi Fi connection or through a carrier data interface and the device includes an interface management program which can be incorporated in an application . The interface management program in conjunction with the transmission mode selector can effectively minimize costs incurred when sending or receiving SMS or other text messages and can determine whether to block or delay the reception of advertising content. In one embodiment the transmission mode selector in conjunction with the application notifies the messaging processing engine not to send the advertising content.

In response to a determination about location availability and cost of Wi FI service a recipients address e.g. location or phone number the interface management program is operative to effect transmission locally or internationally via Internet through Wi Fi or data interface of the mobile device . Alternatively the interface management program can determine that a message should be sent through the normal transmission path provided by the mobile carrier. The interface management program and the transmission mode selector can automatically recognize destination of a SMS message and transmits such message by a mode so as to avoid roaming charges or data charges.

While configurations of the system and method have been particularly shown and described with references to configurations thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention. As an example the order of processing steps in the flow charts is not limited to the order shown herein. Accordingly the present invention is not limited by the example configurations provided above.

