---

title: System and method for high connectivity platform
abstract: A system comprises a plurality of port cards arranged along a first orientation, the port cards operable to receive data from one or more nodes on a network. The system also comprises a plurality of switch-fabric cards arranged along a second orientation orthogonal to the first orientation, the switch-fabric cards operable to route data between the one or more port cards based on one or more rules. The system further comprises a plurality of bridge cards coupling the one or more port cards to the one or more switch-fabric cards, the bridge cards arranged physically between the port cards and switch-fabric cards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09039432&OS=09039432&RS=09039432
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09039432
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 505 678 filed Jul. 8 2011 entitled System and Method for High Connectivity Platform which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to high connectivity platforms and more specifically to high connectivity platforms with a three dimensional backplane.

Increasing channel density and or data rates used by switching and or routing platforms may result in a corresponding increase in both the number of switch fabric channels e.g. Serializer Deserializer or SerDes channels and the operating frequency within the platform. This increase may make it more difficult to provide the desired connector density signal integrity and thermal cooling within the platform. One potential way to solve the connectivity problems is to increase the number of backplane routing layers used to connect the port cards with the switch fabric cards for example by increasing the amount of PCB layers in the backplane. However the increased pin density of the backplane connectors may negate some of the routing improvements and cause signal integrity issues at higher frequencies due to the increased distance data has to travel to route around other connectors. In addition thermal constraints such as limited airflow for cooling may be present in such architectures. Optimum front to rear airflow may not be achieved in part because there are limited open areas through which the air is able to flow. Moreover the air that does flow to the switch fabric cards in the rear of a platform may at least be partially pre heated by the port cards in the front of the platform or vice versa. These thermal constraints may further limit the maximum component density on a card.

A system comprises a plurality of port cards arranged along a first orientation the port cards operable to receive data from one or more nodes on a network. The system also comprises a plurality of switch fabric cards arranged along a second orientation orthogonal to the first orientation the switch fabric cards operable to route data between the one or more port cards based on one or more rules. The system further comprises a plurality of bridge cards coupling the one or more port cards to the one or more switch fabric cards the bridge cards arranged physically between the port cards and switch fabric cards.

An alternative system comprises a plurality of port cards arranged along a first orientation the port cards operable to receive data from one or more nodes on a network. The alternative system also comprises a plurality of switch fabric cards arranged along a second orientation orthogonal to the first orientation the switch fabric cards operable to route data between the one or more port cards based on one or more rules. The alternative system further comprises a plurality of bridge cards coupling the one or more port cards to the one or more switch fabric cards the bridge cards having a first end and a second end wherein a first portion of the port cards and a first portion of the switch fabric cards couple to the bridge cards at the first end.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may provide numerous technical advantages. For example certain embodiments of the present disclosure may allow for increased connectivity at a routing and or switching platform in order to connect or couple one or more nodes on a network via the platform. As another example certain embodiments of the present disclosure may allow for better air flow through the platform and over the cards for increased cooling capacity.

Other technical advantages of the present disclosure will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

Particular embodiments may comprise a routing or switching platform architecture hereinafter simply platform that maximizes the number of port cards maximizes the number of channel interconnections minimizes channel lengths maximizes the effectiveness of front to rear air flow for cooling and minimizes mechanical issues.

The components of computer may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation computer may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Where appropriate computer may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods. As an example and not by way of limitation computer may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods. One or more computers may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods where appropriate.

In the depicted embodiment each computer may include its own respective processor memory storage interface and bus . These components may work together to provide routing or switching functionality. Although a particular computer is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. It is not necessary for each computer used within a platform to have the same components or the same type of components.

Processor may be a microprocessor controller application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory routing or switching functionality. Such functionality may include providing various features discussed herein.

In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by computer including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation computer may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system another platform or another device coupled to computer to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer and or remote transceiver where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface and or may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer port cards switch fabric cards bridge cards any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network. Interface may include one or more connectors for communicating traffic e.g. IP packets via a bridge card.

Depending on the embodiment interface may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network in which computer is used. As an example and not by way of limitation distributed antenna system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. Computer may include any suitable interface for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces for them. Where appropriate interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface may include one or more interfaces where appropriate.

Bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of computer to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

In platforms such as those illustrated in thermal efficiency may be a problem due to limited air flow. For example front to rear airflow cannot be achieved in part because there are limited open areas through which the air is able to flow i.e. air flowing past the port cards will be mostly obstructed by backplane . In addition the air that does flow past backplane to switch fabric cards is at least partially pre heated by the port cards .

Moreover the number of connections to nodes via port cards may be limited due to mechanical constraints or challenges. For example the increasing channel density and data rates used by switching and or routing platforms has resulted in a corresponding increase in both the number of switch fabric channels e.g. Serializer Deserializer or SerDes channels and the operating frequency within the platform. Such an increase may make it more difficult to provide the desired connector density signal integrity and thermal cooling within the platform. One potential way to solve the connectivity problems is to increase the number of backplane routing layers used to connect the port cards with the switch fabric cards for example by increasing the amount of PCB layers in the backplane . However the increased pin density of the backplane connectors may negate some of the routing improvements and cause signal integrity issues at higher frequencies due to the increased distance data has to travel to route around other connectors.

To mitigate such issues with routing in a backplane some platforms may be designed such that the cards are directly connected together orthogonally to each other. For instance port cards may be directly coupled to a switch fabric card such that the switch fabric card is arranged similar to backplane in . The direct connection between the cards avoids routing in the backplane but may limit the number of port cards that can be used based on the size that a board such as a printed circuit board PCB can be manufactured for the switch fabric cards. The orthogonal architecture also has similar thermal constraints as above due to the limited airflow for cooling. Optimum front to rear airflow cannot be achieved as air flowing past the port cards will be mostly obstructed by switch fabric cards . In addition the air that does flow to the switch fabric cards is at least partially pre heated by the port cards or vice versa. This thermal constraint may further limit the maximum component density on a card.

Bridge cards may couple and or interconnect port cards and switch fabric cards . Bridge cards may effectively create a three dimensional midplane or backplane. In some embodiments bridge cards may be aligned with switch fabric cards . In such embodiments each bridge card may be associated with any number of port cards but only one switch fabric card .

In certain embodiments unlike current platform architectures where in order to increase interconnect resources you need to add PCB routing layers bridge card may provide for increases in interconnect resources by increasing PCB layers and or by increasing the depth as view from front of platform of bridge cards . For a traditional midplane or backplane as the depth increases so to does the technological difficulty and or financial costs such that there is a limit to the depth that can practically be achieved. This in turn limits that amount of connectivity a platform may provide to nodes in network .

In certain embodiments bridge cards may be fixed within platform . This may help to minimize and or eliminate mechanical registration issues in a traditional orthogonal architecture there are multiple connectors on the port cards and the switch fabric cards that must mate when the cards are installed as you increase the number and or the size of the cards in a platform alignment for mating of connectors are harder to achieve . In particular embodiments the switch fabric channels of platform may be partitioned into N fabric domains. In such an embodiment each switch fabric card may provide services for a subset of the fabric domains. Connectivity between port cards for a subset of fabric domains may be provided by bridge cards . Fabric inter domain connectivity may be performed within port cards .

In certain embodiments bridge cards may be aligned with the direction of airflow front to rear and may maximize the openings for airflow through platform . Air can flow freely through the space between individual bridge cards . In some embodiments bridge cards may be physically shaped and placed so as to improve the flow of air through platform .

In some embodiments platform may comprise active cards between port and switch fabric cards split bridge cards and or segmented bridge cards. In particular embodiments platform may comprise an architecture that provides a high number of channel interconnects between removable cards through in part the use of fixed interconnect bridge cards . Bridge cards may be used to effectively create a three dimensional interconnect architecture that maximizes the openings for airflow in platform . In particular embodiments bridge cards may allow platform to have both port cards and switch fabric cards installed in the front end of an enclosure. This may allow both sets of cards to received fresh air e.g. air that is not preheated by other cards . The improved cooling and improved air flow may allow platform to accommodate front and or switch fabric cards with a higher thermal density.

Depending on the scenario and or operational needs bridge cards may include cables within a shaped housing or case a PCB or any other configuration. The housing case or PCB may be shaped to connect the various front and switch fabric cards as well as to improve the flow of air through an enclosure housing the cards. In certain embodiments the cables within the case or housing may comprise fiber optic cables twin ax cables coax cables twisted pair cables or any other suitable cabling that may allow bridge cards to maximize the possible number of interconnects operate at higher channel frequencies and improve signal integrity. Bridge cards may simplify the routing on port cards and or switch fabric cards reduce PCB layer counts optimize and organize interconnect for the fabric channels which can help routing on the front and switch fabric cards.

As in bridge cards may couple and or interconnect port cards and switch fabric cards . Bridge cards may effectively create a three dimensional midplane or backplane. In some embodiments bridge cards may be aligned with switch fabric cards . In such embodiments each bridge card may be associated with any number of port cards but only one switch fabric card . Bridge cards may be aligned with the direction of airflow front to rear and may maximize the openings for airflow through platform . Air can flow freely through the space between individual bridge cards . In some embodiments bridge cards may be physically shaped and placed so as to improve the flow of air through platform .

While various implementations and features are discussed with respect to multiple embodiments it should be understood that such implementations and features may be combined in various embodiments. For example features and functionality discussed with respect to a particular figure such as may be used in connection with features and functionality discussed with respect to another such figure such as according to operational needs or desires.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that particular embodiments encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example while the architectures depicted in show port cards and switch fabric cards arranged in a vertical stack in certain embodiments the port cards and the switch fabric cards may be arranged with one in front of the other or there may be multiple vertical stacks of port cards and or switch fabric cards.

