---

title: Projector with enhanced resolution via optical pixel sharing
abstract: A projector configured to provide higher resolution output without increasing pixel resolution in a light modulator is disclosed. The projector may introduce an optical element between a light modulator and an imaging lens. The optical element may provide pixel sharing of a target image. The pixel sharing may be produced by, for example, making smaller copies of pixels. Selected copies of pixels may be passed to the imaging lens to display an output image with selected areas of higher density pixels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183771&OS=09183771&RS=09183771
owner: THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
number: 09183771
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120803
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the University of California University system and the invention herein may be manufactured practiced used and or licensed by or for the government of the State of California without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. IIS0846144 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to image projectors and more specifically to a projector with enhanced resolution via optical pixel sharing.

The recent years have seen a development in projector image quality in terms of brightness contrast and resolution. In some projectors an image is projected by a light source stimulating a light modulator or sensor whose output is projected through an imaging lens. The output image is typically of lower resolution than the source image. The resolution of the output image is generally a factor dependent on the pixel size of a modulator reproducing the image. Greater resolution from one projector to the next is known to be accomplished by decreasing the pixel size within the sole modulator to provide higher pixel density. Higher pixel density decreases the amount of light information lost between the image source and the projected image. However the relationship of cost with respect to decreasing pixel size in a modulator to provide improved resolution from that modulator may be linear. For example the cost of a four Megapixel projector may be ten times that of a two Megapixel projector while resolution just doubles.

Accordingly there is a need for a projector system that provides a cost effective approach to increased resolution.

According to one aspect of the present invention a projector comprises a light source a first light modulator in an optical path with the light source an imaging lens in the optical path with the light source and the first light modulator an optical element disposed in the optical path between the first light modulator and the imaging lens and a controller coupled to the first light modulator wherein the controller is configured to control light output from the first light modulator.

According to another aspect of the invention a projector comprises a light source a first light modulator in an optical path with the light source an imaging lens in the optical path with the light source and the first light modulator a second light modulator disposed between the first light modulator and the imaging lens an optical element disposed in the optical path between the first light modulator and the second light modulator and a controller coupled to the first light modulator wherein the controller is configured to display a projected image of a target image produced by alternating between a first light output from the first light modulator and a second light output from the second light modulator wherein the projected image includes regions of spatially varying pixel density.

According to another aspect of the invention a method of producing an image comprises controlling a first and second light modulator to create a first light output at a lower resolution controlling the first and second light modulator to create a second light output with higher resolution than the lower resolution at selected spatial regions and temporally multiplexing the first and second light outputs to produce an output image with spatially varying pixel density where selected regions of the output image are at a higher pixel resolution than other regions of the output image.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out exemplary embodiments of the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention since the scope of the invention is best defined by the appended claims.

Broadly embodiments of the subject technology may provide an apparatus that increases image resolution in selected regions of the image. In some embodiments an optical element may be introduced in between a light modulator and an imaging lens. In further embodiments the apparatus may be configured to control data processed through the introduced optical element to manipulate pixel density on an output image. Still yet further embodiments may describe exemplary methods of increasing pixel density output without using smaller pixels in the light modulator.

Referring now to a projector is shown according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The projector may include a light source a light modulator an optical element another light modulator a projection or imaging lens and a controller . For sake of illustration electrical connections between the controller the light source and light modulators and are not shown. The optical element may be wholly optical or in some embodiments may be electro optical in which case it may also be connected to the controller . While the optics of the projector are shown in a linear configuration it will be understood that they may be arranged non linearly as long as an optical path producing a reproduction of a target image projected through the imaging lens is achieved. For example the projector may be arranged so that the light modulator may be in an optical path with the light source . The imaging lens may be in the optical path with the light source and the light modulator . The light modulator may be disposed between the light modulator and the imaging lens . The optical element may be disposed in the optical path between the light modulator and the light modulator . The light modulators and may be for example liquid crystal display LCD or digital micromirror device DMD types. The optical element may be for example a set of lenses arranged to reproduce pixel images from the first light modulator into smaller copies. In an exemplary embodiment four cascaded lenses may be employed.

According to exemplary embodiments of the subject technology two relatively lower resolution light modulator panels for example light modulators and of resolution n n assuming square pixel panels without loss of generality may be arranged to so that the projector may display images that provide a close perceptual match to a higher resolution display of resolution cn cn where c is a small integer greater than 1. Some embodiments may provide spatially variable pixel density across an image by realizing higher pixel density at predetermined or preselected areas of the image. Thus the resultant image may provide improved resolution in regions of the image that may benefit from greater detail while other regions where increased detail may be of less importance may be left with a lower resolution. For example since edges may be considered to be perceptually important enhanced resolution of a target image may be performed by creating an edge enhanced image. Edges may include for example the edges of image features.

Referring now to an exemplary processing of a target image I is shown according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. A display with higher resolution targeted only at pixels where high frequency content is concentrated may be sufficient to create an image Ithat is perceptually almost identical to one produced by a true higher resolution display. Higher frequency content in an image is given by a small set of pixels at for example edges. To produce the image Ithe target image I may be decomposed into two images Iand I. Imay represent a set of pixels creating a higher resolution cn cn image. The rest of the image which may be complementary to the image I may be an image Iand may be reproduced at the lower resolution n n of unmodified pixels . In an exemplary embodiment the pixels of image Imay comprise edge feature pixels while the pixels of image Imay comprise non edge feature pixels. As will be described in further detail the edge pixels may be of higher pixel density smaller pixel size than the non edge pixels lower density bigger pixel size . The selected edge pixels may be displayed at a higher resolution using cpixels whose size is ctimes smaller than an unmodified pixel . More importantly these smaller pixels may be created using spatial light modulators that may project an unmodified pixel that is ctimes larger that the desired higher resolution pixel size. In an exemplary embodiment the images Iand Imay be projected in a time sequential manner alternating between each image to create the edge enhanced image Ithat may be a combination of the higher resolution pixels with the lower resolution pixels . With current 3D ready projectors with an available refresh rate of 120 Hz or higher temporal multiplexing may be imperceptible to the user. The result of the combined outputs from the light modulators and may be an edge enhanced image Iof non uniform pixel density.

To display the edge image Iat a higher resolution optical pixel sharing may be employed. In one embodiment optical pixel sharing may reduce the area of each projected pixel by a factor of 1 cwhile increasing their density by cat the edges. Considering that many images may have few edge features compared to non edge features an optical pixel sharing unit for example the optical element may use edge regions for display at higher resolution that would minimize visible artifacts while passing non edge regions through with the need to modify pixels capturing the non edge regions.

In some projectors white light from a light source may illuminate a light modulator panel that spatially modulates the light to produce different pixels. A light modulator panel either a transmissive LCD or a reflective DMD may be a 2 dimensional array of modulation elements or pixels where each element can block or attenuate the light to achieve a brightness between 0 black and 1 white . Under a linear transfer function the relationship between the input and the modulated output is linear. For single chip projectors three channels of colors may be produced by temporally multiplexing R G and B filters placed in front of the lamp. For three chip projectors multiple optical paths are used for the three channels that are then combined to create the final image. According to exemplary embodiments of the subject technology some embodiments may be described as a grayscale or single channel digital projector. Further embodiments may also be described as including multiple channels multiple channels.

Referring now to the projector is shown illustrating exemplary optical paths and pixel display control for producing the image Ionto a screen . In an exemplary embodiment two cascaded and aligned low resolution n n light modulators and are arranged with the optical element with the in between them. The light modulators may also be referred to as light modulator panels for some embodiments. In some embodiments the optical element may be a pixel sharing unit and the remaining description may refer to the optical element interchangeably as the optical pixel sharing unit .

The optical pixel sharing unit may be configured to divide the input light to create ccopies of every pixel of the first light modulator panel where each copy may be downsized by a factor of c in of each direction. For example each pixel as shown for sake of illustration by only three blocks A B and C representing a single pixel each however it will be understood that more pixels may be generated in the first light modulator panel may pass through the optical pixel sharing unit which may create csmaller spatially non adjacent copies of each pixel represented as rays A A B B C and C from the light modulator panel .

The optical pixel sharing unit may also jumble the placement of these smaller pixels at non adjacent locations on the second light modulator panel . Thus a total of cnsmaller pixels may be focused onto the second light modulator panel . In some embodiments csized smaller pixels smaller than pixels generated at light modulator panel may also thus be focused at each pixel of light modulator panel . The copies of pixels may be created with the same content as the pixels generated by light modulator while each pixel in the second light modulator panel may attenuate cspatially adjacent smaller pixels of different content. For example the controller may be configured to control light modulator panel to selectively reproduce which copies of pixels will be displayed from the light modulator . In some cases only a single copy of a pixel may be incident in a region of the light modulator panel . For example the region Z may control copy C. The light modulator panel may be configured to determine if the copy of a pixel should be displayed or filtered out for a given image for example Ior I. In some cases more than one copy of pixels of a different origin from the light modulator may be incident on the same region of the light modulator producing a potential conflict for which piece of data should be shown. The light modulator may be controlled to predetermine which copies of pixels from the light modulator activate a location on the second light modulator and are eligible to display. For example the region X on the second light modulator panel controls copies Aand Cas shown. The region Y may control copies Aand B. In an exemplary embodiment X and Y may be in conflict due to A while X and Z may be in conflict due to C . Thus Y and Z may be blocked indicated by black because X is passed indicated by white by the second light modulator .

In an exemplary embodiment the displayed image Imay be displayed according to the following. The lower resolution non edge image Iby turning the first light modulator panel completely ON and passes the light from the light source without any modulation. In this situation the optical pixel sharing unit may not have any effect and the image Imay be used as input to the second light modulator panel to create for example non edge pixels at a first or lower resolution. To display the higher resolution image I first the locations on the second modulator panel which needs to be displayed at a higher resolution are decided. Appropriate pixels in the first modulator panel which provides smaller copies at these pixels in the second light modulator panel may be turned ON with the desired input. If two pixels in the second light modulator panel that need to be at a higher resolution get their input from the same pixel of the first light modulator panel one of the pixels depending on the importance of their being in higher resolution will be turned OFF to avoid a conflict. All the pixels turned ON in the second light modulator panel during display of the non edge image Imay be turned OFF in this frame.

For each edge pixel of the second light modulator panel the first light modulator panel and the optical pixel sharing unit together may create cadjacent smaller pixels. However these smaller pixels may receive their input from cdifferent pixels in the first light modulator panel . For example a function may be represented by letting a pixel i j in the first modulator panel be routed to a smaller pixel s t in the second modulator panel . Then a jumbling function F may be defined as F s t i j for e.g. F A A and F C C . Note that F may depend on how the hardware for optical pixel sharing is designed and not on the image content. Also due to the jumbling adjacent pixels in the first light modulator panel may create non adjacent pixels in the displayed image I.

To display a pixel in the second modulator panel at high resolution for example a pixel in region X the corresponding csmaller pixels in the second modulator panel for example pixel copies Aand Amay be considered. For each of these pixel copies a value of I s t may be input at the location F s t in the first light modulator panel for example pixels A and C. The input image to the first and second modulators may generate Iand Irespectively by using a jumbling function F s t s mod n t mod n . This jumbling function creates c smaller copies of each pixel at a distance of 1 c in each of the horizontal and vertical directions. Essentially this may be similar to creating a grid of c c smaller images.

The jumbling function F may be a many to one function. A lower resolution pixel i j in the first modulator panel may feed many higher resolution pixels s t in the displayed image I. For example pixel A may feed or create to smaller pixels one at region Y via copy Aand another at region X via copy A. In an exemplary embodiment only one input may be given to represent the pixel A. The second light modulator may either take the value of the smaller pixel at region X or that at region Y . In some embodiments only one of the image at X or at Y may be displayed at higher resolution in the final image I and the other may be blocked for example copy Ais passed while Ais blocked. Thus in some embodiments only one of X or Y can be at high resolution at a time. This blocking of one pixel image at the second light modulator may be considered a conflict. For example regions X and Y may be in conflict due to copies of pixel A at regions X and Z are in conflict due to copies of pixel C also being at region Z . Consequently considering conflicts among all the pixels in some embodiments only a subset of edge pixels EM E may be displayed at a higher resolution. However it may be appreciated that due to the sparsity of the edge pixels in many target images the subset of edge pixels for the image Imay be small compared to the remaining low resolution pixels for the image I.

Referring now to two maps and representing the results of different jumbling functions for controlling the image output from the optical pixel sharing unit onto the light modulator and their corresponding conflict graphs and are shown. Each node may denote a low resolution pixel in the second light modulator panel . An edge between two nodes may denote a conflict. The edge is labeled with the pixel A B C D in the first light modulator due to which conflict occurs. For the jumbling function represented by the graph every pixel is in conflict with another. Hence only one of the four pixels can be ON when displaying the edge image I. The jumbling function represented by the graph may be a result of embodiments of the present invention. The graph shows a set of cliques and hence two of the four pixels can be ON when displaying the edge image I.

In an exemplary embodiment of an edge enhanced image I the jumbling function F may be implemented by a grid of c c lenses. A c c grid of lenses each lens of focal length f if placed at distance d f 1 c from the first light modulator panel may create ccopies of the image of this panel focused on the second light modulator panel each scaled by a factor of 1 c in each direction. The ccopies of the first light modulator panel may be placed contiguously without any gap or overlap. If a pixel at vertical distances y and r y from the optical axis of top and bottom lenses respectively of an optical pixel sharing unit with two or more lenses and the distance between the optical axes of the two vertically adjacent lenses is r then two copies of this pixel will be at distance y c and r y c from the optical axis of the top and bottom lenses respectively. Therefore considering the distance r between the two axes the distance between these two copies is given by r r c . Assuming a to be the height of the light modulator panels and this distance should be same as a c. Therefore r a 1 c . Similarly the horizontal distance may be found between the optical axes of the lenses. Note that f can be chosen arbitrarily but in some embodiments should be positive to focus the image of the first light modulator panel onto the second light modulator panel . It can be shown theoretically that the particular F achieved by a grid of lenses according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention may minimize the number of conflicts may maximize the number of edge pixels that can be displayed at a higher resolution and may simplify resolving conflict by selecting an edge pixel that has the highest difference from a threshold from amongst conflicting pixels.

Referring now to an exemplary edge enhanced image is shown. The image may be produced by combining images and . Image may be a high resolution edge image for example an edge image I. The image may be a low resolution non edge image for example the non edge image I. The jumbling effects previously described may be seen in the high resolution edge image . As may be appreciated control of the edge pixels according to embodiments of the present invention may yet produce sharp resultant images when complemented with the low resolution non edge image .

Referring now to embodiments of the present invention may be applied to three channels. Delta E thresholding for RGB color may be employed to generate Iand I. However the optical design can be extended in two different ways depending on the existing projector design architecture. For a single chip architecture not shown a color wheel may be introduced right before the first light modulator panel . For a 3 chip projector architecture mirrors and dichroic filters and may be used to divide white light from light source into red green and blue outputs which follow three different optical paths. For sake of illustration a monochromatic output design is shown where two of the three colors may be blocked from transmission by baffles intercepting their filtered components. However it will be understood that the different color images may be used simultaneously. To produce a final output image comprising two or more colors a bi prism may be disposed between the light modulator and the optical pixel sharing unit as described in the following.

In an exemplary embodiment the projector architecture is shown for a green image output. The first light modulator panel may be disposed in the path of the desired color output for example green light. The green light may be a result of yellow light being passed through the yellow dichroic filter whose green component is then reflected from a red dichroic filter .

The first light modulator may be controlled to provide a low resolution output of the green image. The low resolution green image may be transmitted into the bi prism where for example red and blue image outputs may be re combined with the green image into a polychromatic image. The low resolution image from the bi prism may be transmitted through the optical pixel sharing unit where smaller copies of pixels from the low resolution image are transmitted to the second light modulator . As described previously an edge image Ie may be produced by selectively controlling which smaller copies of pixels are produced in the second light modulator . Temporal modulation may be employed to produce the edge enhanced image Iv which in this case is a green image. While the foregoing embodiment was described in the context of producing a green edge enhanced image Iv it may be seen that a polychromatic edge enhanced image Iv may be produced by positioning multiple light modulators in respective filtered color paths R G B before the bi prism .

Due to conflicts within a pixel region two adjacent edge pixels might be displayed in two different resolutions. The difference in resolution may be perceptible creating a visual artifact. In order to alleviate the perception of a visual artifact a smoothing processing may be employed. The smoothing process may be adjusted for different applications for example face sensitive displays or visualization sensitive display.

In an exemplary embodiment of a smoothing process according to the present invention for every pixel i j E a binary weight W i j may be assigned. A weight of 1 may indicate that a pixel will be displayed at high resolution and a weight of 0 may indicate that the pixel will be displayed at low resolution due to a conflict. For example i j EM W i j 1 and i j E E W i j 0. i j W i j may not be relevant in some cases and hence may be initialized to an irrelevant term. The smoothing process may smooth the discontinuities in the relevant portions of W to create a non binary W 0 W i j 1. W i j may provide a weight for combining the high and low resolution content at pixel i j to avoid visual artifacts . Hence to create the final edge enhanced image the contribution from the higher resolution Imay be weighted by W i j and get the rest of the contribution from 1 W i j Iwhere Imay represent the low resolution image for example I . Note that for i j where W i j 0 W i j may be kept at 0 since these pixels may not be reproduced any better than the low resolution. In addition for pixels where W i j 1 their weight may be reduced minimally so that high resolution content may be retained maximally.

Referring now to a projector is shown according to yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The projector may also introduce an optical element between a light modulator and an imaging lens . For example the projector may include a light source the light modulator in an optical path with the light source the imaging lens in the optical path with the light source and the light modulator and the optical element disposed in the optical path between the light modulator and the imaging lens . For sake of illustration a controller not shown similar to controller is omitted from view. However it will be understood that the controller may be connected to the light modulator similar to how the controller may be connected to the light modulator . In an exemplary embodiment the light modulator may be a panel for example an LCD or reflective DMD. In an exemplary embodiment the optical element may be configured for pixel sharing. In some embodiments the optical element may be a pair of shifting lenses.

The two lenses L and L of optical element may have the same focal length f on the light path between the light modulator and the imaging lens . If these lenses are placed at distance from the light modulator on a plane perpendicular to the optical axis of the imaging lens the lenses may have the same magnification factor of m f 1 f . The light from each pixel produced by light modulator passes through both lenses creating two copies of each pixel. Consequently the shift between the two copies may depend on the distance between the optical axes of the two lenses. This shift may be indicated by vector d d d where the coordinate system is aligned with the pixel grid of the light modulator panel . If a pixel of the light modulator is at an arbitrary distance d from the optical axis of L it may be located at distance d d from the optical axis of L. Therefore the two shifted copies of this pixel may be formed at distances md and md md from the optical axes of L and L respectively. Since the distance between the optical axes of L and L is d the distance between the two shifted copies will be d md. If the size of the pixel is a units in each dimension then after magnification the size of the pixel is ma units. Consequently the shift between the two copies is s s 1 m d ma 1 f l f d f l f a l l f d f l f a d fa.

Referring now to concurrently with pixel sharing according to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention is shown. The pixel sharing shown in may be provided for example by employing the shifting lenses of projector . In the exemplary embodiment shown smaller copies of pixels from the light modulator may be reproduced by overlaying a pixel with a shifted copy of itself. Shifting a pixel and overlaying it with itself may sometimes achieve a non square sometimes non rectangular shape of a pixel. Further it may create a pixel which can overlap with its adjacent pixels. The set of shifting lenses optical element may create multiple shifted and overlaid copies of the pixels without modifying their sizes. Since a reduction in pixel size may not be provided a high frequency boost filter may be employed during image reconstruction leading to lesser attenuation of higher frequencies and hence a more pleasing appearance. However the pixel shapes resulting from a shift and overlay approach may allow a more accurate representation of certain directional image features. The reshaped pixel shape has a larger frequency bandwidth in a certain direction and may thus favor certain gradient directions more than the others. For example gradients along the direction of the shift may be represented without any artifacts while gradients in the perpendicular direction may continue to have jaggy artifacts as in a lower resolution image thus increased resolution may be achieved by varying the spatially density of pixels in a directional gradient.

A low resolution image I with larger pixels may be twice the size of pixels in Iin each direction. Four different pixels are shown as four different colors represented in varying shades of grayscale. The same image I may be shifted by s s 0.5 pixel units. The resulting image may be labeled as shifted image copy . The shifted image copy may include pixels corresponding to copies of pixels . The low resolution image I and its shifted image copy may overlaid on each other creating an overlaid image I . The pixels with dark black boundaries get contributions from the same pixel in low resolution image I and shifted image copy while the other pixels get contributions from different pixels of low resolution image I . The result of the overlaying may be a set of higher resolution fractional pixels . The higher resolution fractional pixels may be modulated so that their projection through imaging lens may produce an image with regionalized enhanced resolution on screen . As shown on screen the direction of overlay shifting may be performed for example along vertical horizontal or diagonal gradients. Moreover it may be appreciated that by employing fractional pixels to provide higher resolution imaging higher resolution of various shapes for example non rectangular pixel copies may be achieved. By controlling the placement of pixel overlay curvilinear elements may be enhanced in the resultant image.

Referring now to a projector design according to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention is shown. The projector design may be similar to the projector where a light source a first light modulator an optical element and a second light modulator may be employed. For sake of illustration the controller and imaging lens are not shown however are understood as being available as described above. In an exemplary embodiment of the projector design the light source may be collimated. As an example of the various optical elements that may be employed a set of prisms also referred to as prisms may be positioned on the light modulators and . The prisms may be positioned on various regions of the light modulators and where pixel sharing may be desired. Pixel copies generated by light modulator may be produced by arranging the prisms on light modulator to refract the pixels onto predetermined regions of the light modulator . For sake of illustration only four pixel regions are shown on light modulator but it will be understood that more or less regions may be employed. As described in previous embodiments selected regions of a target image may be passed from the light modulator to the light modulator . As described previously some of the pixel regions may have conflicts. The determination of which pixel region and its associated pixel images received from light modulator that are shown may be controlled so that selected regions of the final output image are shown with enhanced resolution. Referring in particular to the arrangement of prisms may be performed so that optimal passage of pixels with minimal conflicts may be achieved. For example as shown the projector design may produce conflicts between images produced at regions and and between images produced at regions and . Thus two of the four pixels can be ON when displaying the resulting image.

Referring now to a method of producing an image is shown according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The controller may determine which pixels may be displayed at low resolution and a complementary set of pixels to be displayed at higher resolution. The controller may input an appropriate image to first and second modulator to create the lower resolution pixels. The controller may project the lower resolution image. The controller may input an appropriate image to first and second modulator to create an image with the higher resolution pixels. The controller may project an image with higher pixel density at selected regions. A next frame may be chosen to be displayed.

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to exemplary embodiments of the invention and that modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example while the foregoing was described primarily in the context of a projector it will be understood that other optical devices may be employed using the aforementioned embodiments described. For example a camera may be configured to introduce an optical element between a modulator and an imaging lens which may produce increased resolution of a target image within selected regions of the reproduced image.

