---

title: System and method for searching and remotely printing social networking digital images for pickup at a retail store
abstract: The method and system allow a user to launch, on an web-enabled device, a client application that retrieves images from a social networking database. The client application displays the retrieved images available for printing to a user, and in response to receiving a selection of an image, the client application retrieves social networking attributes associated with the selected image from the social networking database. In response to receiving one or more social networking attributes from the user, the client application transmits the selected image and associated social network attributes to a proprietary server. Moreover, upon receiving print order information, the client application additionally executes a location awareness application that determines a current location of the web-enabled device and subsequently, determines a proximal retail store to the current location of the web-enabled device. Thereafter, the remote printing system creates and transmits a print order that includes the selected image to the retail store for pickup.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081533&OS=09081533&RS=09081533
owner: WALGREEN CO.
number: 09081533
owner_city: Deerfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121113
---
This application claims benefit to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 684 124 filed on Aug. 16 2012 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING SOCIAL NETWORKING DIGITAL IMAGES AND REMOTELY PRINTING DIGITAL IMAGES FOR PICKUP AT A RETAIL STORE the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present disclosure generally relates to a system and a method for searching and remotely printing social networking digital images and more particularly to a remote printing method and system that allows a user to search and filter social networking images and to remotely print the selected images at a retail store for pickup.

Digital photography has recently overcome traditional film photography with the low cost of digital cameras the high quality of digital photographs and the flexibility of transferring the digital images to others. Moreover digital images allow for one to view the captured images on a digital display interface screen such as a display interface screen of a computer or tablet. Users may store their digital images on a stored medium such as a disc or a solid state drive and share the digital medium with others. Additionally a user may upload their digital images to a website for storage or for sharing with others via a social networking site or online photo album website. Despite the many options available for viewing digital images on a display interface screen many users still wish to print a hard copy of a captured image for viewing and sharing.

For example users may acquire a personal photo printer to print digital images out at home. This conventional technique can be very expensive given the costs of the printing equipment the photograph quality printing paper and the ink. Other techniques of printing digital images include transferring and storing a captured digital image on a storage medium and physically traveling to a retail store to print out the digital image from the storage medium. This technique is time consuming and cumbersome. More recently retail stores have offered printing services via their website on the Internet. Users may upload a digital image to the website of the retail store and have the digital images delivered via the mail. Again this technique is time consuming as it requires the photographer to wait for the prints to be delivered. More recently sophisticated image capturing and sharing software has become available for smartphones that allow a user to capture an image and immediately share the image with a third party social networking site. Users may view the captured images via their smartphone or via the website or mobile application of the social networking website.

Because smartphones allow for easy and fast image uploads social networking websites have rapidly become a hub for users to share digital images with each other and as a result social networking websites now maintain some of the largest repositories of digital images. Moreover social networking websites allow users to generate a multitude of information or attributes associated with each image including user comments identifying other users in an image a location and a date of the image etc. With the ever increasing number of uploaded images and associated information users may quickly become overwhelmed in locating a particular image to view or to print out. Furthermore even if a user locates a particular image the user is unable to print the image and the associated information or attributes.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the front end components could also comprise a plurality of facility servers disposed at the plurality of retail stores instead of or in addition to a plurality of workstations . Each of the retail stores may include one or more facility servers that may facilitate communications between the workstations of the retail stores via a digital network and may store information for a plurality of customers employees accounts etc. associated with each facility. Of course a local digital network may also operatively connect each of the workstations to the facility server . Unless otherwise indicated any discussion of the workstations also refers to the facility servers and vice versa. Moreover environments other than the retail stores may employ the workstations and the servers . As used herein the term retail store refers to any of these environments e.g. kiosks Internet interface terminals etc. 

The front end components communicate with the back end components via the digital network . One or more of the front end components may be excluded from communication with the back end components by configuration or by limiting access due to security concerns. For example the internet enabled devices may be excluded from direct access to the back end components . In some embodiments the retail stores may communicate with the back end components via the digital network . In other embodiments the retail stores and internet enabled devices may communicate with the back end components via the same digital network but digital access rights IP masking and other network configurations may deny access to the internet enabled devices .

The digital network may be a proprietary network a secure public Internet a virtual private network or some other type of network such as dedicated access lines plain ordinary telephone lines satellite links combinations of these etc. Where the digital network comprises the Internet data communication may take place over the digital network via an Internet communication protocol. In addition to one or more proprietary servers described below the back end components include the central processing system . Of course the retail stores may be communicatively connected to different back end components having one or more functions or capabilities that are similar to the central processing system . The central processing system may include one or more computer processors adapted and configured to execute various software applications and components of the remote printing system in addition to other software applications. The central processing system further includes a database . The database is adapted to store data related to the operation of the remote printing system e.g. customer profile data past print purchases images uploaded to the customer account etc. The central processing system may access data stored in the database when executing various functions and tasks associated with the operation of the remote printing system .

Although depicts the remote printing system as including the central processing system in communication with three retail stores and various internet enabled devices it should be understood that different numbers of processing systems pharmacies and devices may be utilized. For example the digital network or other digital networks not shown may interconnect the central processing system to a plurality of included central processing systems hundreds of retail stores and thousands of internet enabled devices . According to the disclosed example this configuration may provide several advantages such as for example enabling near real time uploads and downloads of information as well as periodic uploads and downloads of information. This provides for a primary backup of all the information generated in the remote printing process. Alternatively some of the retail stores may store data locally on the facility server and or the workstations .

The controller includes a program memory the processor may be called a microcontroller or a microprocessor a random access memory RAM and the input output I O circuit all of which are interconnected via an address data bus . It should be appreciated that although only one microprocessor is shown the controller may include multiple microprocessors . Similarly the memory of the controller may include multiple RAMs and multiple program memories . Although the I O circuit is shown as a single block it should be appreciated that the I O circuit may include a number of different types of I O circuits. The RAM s and the program memories may be implemented as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example. A link may operatively connect the controller to the digital network through the I O circuit .

The program memory may also contain machine readable instructions i.e. software for execution by the processor . The software may perform the various tasks associated with operation of the retail store or retail stores and may be a single module or a plurality of modules A B. While the software is depicted in as including two modules A and B the software may include any number of modules accomplishing tasks related to retail store operation including for example receiving print orders managing printing workflow etc. The central processing system implements a server application for providing data to a user interface application operating on the workstations .

For purposes of implementing the remote printing system the user interacts with the proprietary server and the retail store systems e.g. the central processing system via an internet enabled device e.g. mobile device application etc. a specialized application or a plurality of web pages. depicts the proprietary server connected via the network to the internet enabled devices through which a user may initiate and interact with the remote printing system as shown in . The internet enabled devices may include by way of example a tablet computer an internet enabled cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device smart phone also referred to herein as a mobile device a laptop computer a desktop computer a portable media player not shown etc. Of course any internet enabled device appropriately configured may interact with the remote printing system . The internet enabled devices need not necessarily communicate with the network via a wired connection. In some instances the internet enabled devices may communicate with the network via wireless signals and in some instances may communicate with the network via an intervening wireless or wired device which may be a wireless router a wireless repeater a base transceiver station of a mobile telephony provider etc. Each of the internet enabled devices may interact with the proprietary server to receive web pages or server data from the proprietary server and may display the web pages or server data via a client application described below . For example the mobile device may display a home screen i.e. the root or start page at which users enter the client application of the client application to the user may receive an input from the user and may interact with the proprietary server depending on the type of user specified input. As another example the desktop computer may display a social networking website page of a web browser described below . It will be appreciated that although only one proprietary server is depicted in multiple proprietary servers may be provided for the purpose of distributing server load serving different web pages implementing different portions of the retail store web interface etc. These multiple proprietary servers may include a web server an entity specific server e.g. an Apple server etc. a server that is disposed in a retail or proprietary network an independent third party server that is not under the control of the entity etc.

Turning now to the proprietary server like the facility server includes a controller . Similar to the controllers and the controller includes a program memory a microcontroller or a microprocessor MP a random access memory RAM and an input output I O circuit all of which are interconnected via an address data bus . In some embodiments the controller may also include or otherwise be communicatively connected to a database or other data storage mechanism e.g. one or more hard disk drives optical storage drives solid state storage devices etc. . The database may include data such as customer web profiles product data mobile device application data web page templates and or web pages and other data necessary to interact with the user through the network . As discussed with reference to the controllers and it should be appreciated that although depicts only one microprocessor the controller may include multiple microprocessors . Similarly the memory of the controller may include multiple RAMs and multiple program memories . Although the depicts the I O circuit as a single block the I O circuit may include a number of different types of I O circuits. The controller may implement the RAM s and the program memories as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example.

In addition to being connected through the network to the internet enabled devices as depicted in illustrates that the proprietary server may also be connected through the network to the central processing system and or one or more facility servers . As described below the connection of the proprietary server to the central processing system assists in facilitating some of the functionality of the remote printing process. As a result the proprietary server may act as a routing or interfacing server between the plurality of internet enabled devices and a destination server namely the central processing system . For example the proprietary server may be configured to communicate the central processing system and with the internet enabled device via a multitude of protocols such as packet switched protocols web services web APIs Application Programming Interface etc. The proprietary server may also convert if necessary and route client application data not shown to the appropriate server such as the central process system for example. Additionally the proprietary server may act as the destination server and need not route any data from the internet enabled device .

As shown in the program memory and or the RAM may store various applications for execution by the microprocessor . For example a user interface application may provide a user interface to the proprietary server which user interface may for example allow a network administrator to configure troubleshoot or test various aspects of the server s operation or otherwise to access information thereon. A server application operates to populate and transmit client application data and web pages to the internet enabled devices receive information from the user transmitted back to the proprietary server and forward appropriate data to the central processing system and the facility servers as described below. Like the software of the server application may be a single module or a plurality of modules A B. While the server application is depicted in as including two modules A and B the server application may include any number of modules accomplishing tasks related to implantation of the proprietary server . By way of example the module A may populate and transmit the client application data and or may receive and evaluate inputs from the user to receive a data access request while the module B may communicate with one or more of the back end components to fulfill a data access request.

Referring now to the mobile device or any of the internet enabled devices includes a display a Global Positioning System GPS unit a communication unit an image capture device a user input device not shown and like the proprietary server a controller . Similar to the controllers and the controller includes a program memory one or more microcontroller or a microprocessor MP a random access memory RAM and an input output I O circuit all of which are interconnected via an address data bus . The program memory includes an operating system a data storage a plurality of software applications and a plurality of software routines . The operating system for example may include one of a plurality of mobile platforms such as the iOS Android Palm webOS Windows Mobile Phone BlackBerry OS or Symbian OS mobile technology platforms developed by Apple Inc. Google Inc. Palm Inc. now Hewlett Packard Company Microsoft Corporation Research in Motion RIM and Nokia respectively. The data storage may include data such as user profiles application data for the plurality of applications routine data for the plurality of routines and other data necessary to interact with the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications through the digital network . In some embodiments the controller may also include or otherwise be communicatively connected to other data storage mechanisms e.g. one or more hard disk drives optical storage drives solid state storage devices etc. that reside within the mobile device .

The GPS unit may use Assisted GPS A GPS satellite GPS or any other suitable global positioning protocol or system that locates the position of the mobile device . For example A GPS utilizes terrestrial cell phone towers or wi fi hotspots e.g. wireless router points to more accurately and more quickly determine location of the mobile device while satellite GPS generally are more useful in more remote regions that lack cell towers or wifi hotspots. The communication unit may communicate with the proprietary server via any suitable wireless communication protocol network such as a wireless telephony network e.g. GSM CDMA LTE etc. a wi fi network 802.11 standards a WiMAX network a Bluetooth network etc. The image capture device may be a built in camera within the mobile device or may be an external camera such as a webcam that is communicatively coupled with the mobile device or any other internet enabled device . The user input device not shown may include a soft keyboard that is displayed on the display of the mobile device an external hardware keyboard communicating via a wired or a wireless connection e.g. a Bluetooth keyboard an external mouse or any other suitable user input device. As discussed with reference to the controllers and it should be appreciated that although depicts only one microprocessor the controller may include multiple microprocessors . Similarly the memory of the controller may include multiple RAMs and multiple program memories . Although the depicts the I O circuit as a single block the I O circuit may include a number of different types of I O circuits. The controller may implement the RAM s and the program memories as semiconductor memories magnetically readable memories and or optically readable memories for example.

The one or more processors may be adapted and configured to execute any one or more of the plurality of software applications and or any one or more of the plurality of software routines residing in the program memory in addition to other software applications. One of the plurality of applications may be a client application that may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for performing the various tasks associated with receiving information at displaying information on and transmitting information from the mobile device . One of the plurality of applications may be a native web browser such as for example Apple s Safari Google Android mobile web browser Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mobile Opera Mobile that may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for receiving interpreting and displaying web page information from the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications while also receiving inputs from the user. Another application of the plurality of applications may include a location awareness application that may be implemented as a series of machine readable instructions for receiving interpreting and displaying location information of mobile device or any other internet enabled device from the GPS unit . One of the plurality of routines may include an image capture routine that coordinates with the image capture device to retrieve image data for use with one or more of the plurality of applications such as the client application or for use with other routines. Another routine in the plurality of routines may include an image display routine that receives and interprets image data of any type or format for display. Likewise the image display routine coordinates with the image capture routine to obtain image data and process the image data into a displayable format for use with the client application .

Preferably a customer or a user may launch the client application from an internet enabled device such as one of the internet enabled devices to access the proprietary server cooperating with the central processing system to implement the remote printing system . Additionally the customer or the user may also launch or instantiate any other suitable user interface application e.g. the web browser or any other one of the plurality of software applications to access the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications to realize the remote printing system . Generally the term user is used when referring to a person who is operating one of the internet enabled devices and is not exclusive of the term customer. As described above one or both of the databases and illustrated in respectively include various information about the retail store s customers and the prints printed by the retail store as well as basic biographical information about the customer such as a customer name a customer address a customer phone number and the like. Customer records are among the exemplary data that the remote printing system may store on the databases and .

As shown in to access the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications the user executes the client application on one of the internet enabled devices such as the mobile device . Using the client application the user may request server data not shown by navigating a series of client application screens such as the home screen of the client application . depict client application pages or screens that the proprietary server the facility servers or the server applications may transmit in various embodiments of the remote printing system . In any event the user may launch the client application from one of the internet enabled devices via any suitable manner such as touch selecting a client application icon not shown on the display of the mobile device double clicking on the client application icon via a mouse of a computer or a trackpad not shown of a laptop . After the user launches the client application the home screen of the client application is displayed to the user on the mobile device .

With reference now to a landing page of the client application for example is displayed to a user on a client device such as a smartphone tablet laptop etc. The landing page of the client application may be stand alone or embedded within another website such as a social networking website. The landing page may include a banner that conveys directions advertisements etc. and various panels dropdown fields or search boxes that allow the user to preferably select an image category to signify the type of images the user desires to view. These image categories may include Your Albums Tagged Photos of You Inspire Me Top Photos Upcoming Events Search by Friend s etc. Each image category allows the user to initiate the filtering and displaying of images that are associated with the selected image category. For example if the client application receives a selection of the Tagged Photos of You image category from the user the client application may retrieve and display all images associated with the user i.e. images that are tagged with the name of user . After the client application displays the retrieved images the client application may receive a selection of a particular image from the user that denotes that the user may desire to create a print order for pick up at a retail store. In any event an image category may also include more detailed image subcategories that further refine the subset of specified images to be displayed. For instance under the Inspire Me category the subcategories Friend s Print Top Liked Remember When . . . and Recently Tagged In appear. Each of these subcategories may determine a more detailed subset of images to display to the user using social networking attribute data retrieved from the social networking database. When a particular image subcategory is specified by the user the client application may direct the user to another webpage or open a browser embedded pop up window that pre selects the specified image subcategory and displays the corresponding detailed subset of images associated with the specified image subcategory described below .

If applicable the landing page may display not only a specific category but also a preview a sample of one or more images that are indicative of or are associated with that specific category. For example under the Your Albums category each of the four images i.e. the images associated with the Bulls Game Friends IU Tailgate and Halloween is indicative of its respective photo album. Each image includes social networking attributes that the client application may use in filtering or sorting images. For example these social networking attributes associated with an image may include comments about or in relation to the image and may be generated by the user or others positive indications e.g. the user may like the image in relation to the image and may be generated by the user or others descriptions associated with the image that may be generated by the user that describe the image a location denoting where the image may have been taken and may be generated by the user or may be embedded in the image by the mobile device a date when the image was uploaded onto the social networking database an indication of the identity of the user or other users that appear in the image e.g. the user may tag himself or herself or others that appear in the image etc. The client application may only enable some of the image categories in response to a user input or a user action. For example the Top Photos image category may only include or display images that the user has favored or preferred through the user s hearting a particular photo. In this example the client application denotes a favored image with a highlighted heart to signify that the favored image has been favored or hearted by the user or another user as a special image. However if the user has not favored any images for example then the client application may not include any images under the Top Photos image category as shown in but rather may include an instructional message that informs the user how to favor an image for future use.

In any event referring back to the landing page of if the user selects the Upcoming Events image category the client application may display to the user a new web page to the user or a browser embedded pop up window as shown in that includes one or more upcoming events that are associated with the user or other users. If the client application receives a selection from the user of one of the upcoming events the client application may retrieve and display to the user one or more images not shown relating to the selected upcoming event the user and or other users. For example if the selected upcoming event includes the birthday of a friend of the user the client application may retrieve images associated with the birthday of the friend of the user recently uploaded images associated with the friend of the user and the user images associated with the user and the friend of the user from a previous birthday of the friend of the user etc.

Referring back to if the user selects the Your Album image category on the landing page the client application may direct the user to another web page or a browser embedded pop up window as shown in that displays all previously user created albums . In determining an image to remotely print for pick up at the retail store the user may select any album to cause the client application to display one or more images associated with the selected album. Similarly referring back to if the user selects the Top Photos image category from the landing page the client application may redirect the user to another web page or a browser embedded pop up window as shown in that displays one or more images the user or another user has favored or hearted as user favored images as described above. In response to receiving a user favored image selection for printing from the user the client application may direct the user to a print preview page described below .

As illustrated in if the user selects the Tagged Photos of You image category the client application may direct the user to an additional web page or to a browser embedded pop up window that displays one or more user identified images that are associated with the identity of the user i.e. images in which the user is tagged as shown in . For example the user or other users of the social network service may tag or identify the user as appearing in an image. Upon selecting the Tagged Photos of You image category of the client application in cooperation with the social network service may retrieve any images that the user has been tagged or identified in as appearing in the image. In response to receiving a user identified image selection for printing from the user the client application may direct the user to a print preview page described below .

In response to the selection of the Inspire Me image category from the landing page of the client application may redirect the user to another web page or a browser embedded pop up window as shown in that displays one or more selectable image subcategories. As illustrated in for example the client application displays seven image subcategories Top Commented Top Liked Friends Prints Recent Uploads Recently Tagged In Remember When . . . and Show All . Each image subcategory of may correspond to each image subcategory under the Inspire Me image category of . Upon the user s selection of a particular image subcategory the client application may use a pre defined algorithm in determining the one or more images to retrieve from the social networking database which may reside within the server central processing system or a third party remote server not shown . This third party server may be a part of social networking service and may include a social networking server that may store or contain images that may have been uploaded social networking attributes social networking attribute data or any other information or data that is desired as part of a social networking service. The pre defined algorithm may include social networking attribute data associated with a particular image as inputs to determine whether the image belongs in the one or more images retrieved. Conforming to the pre defined algorithm the client application may use one or more social networking attribute data and may also weight each social networking attribute data differently. The client application may use the pre defined algorithm determining whether a specific image should be retrieved from the social networking service and displayed to the use. Alternatively the client application may utilize the pre defined algorithm in determining the sorting order when displaying the retrieved one or images to the user. In this example the user has selected the Recent Uploads image subcategory and in response the client application utilizes a pre defined algorithm associated with the Recent Uploads image category to determine a sorting order in displaying the one or more recently uploaded images that are associated with the Recent Uploads image subcategory . In response to receiving a recently uploaded image selection for printing from the user the client application may direct the user to a print preview page described below .

Referring back to the landing page of if the user selects the Search by Friend s image category the client application may redirect the user to another web page or a browser embedded pop up window as shown in that displays one or more images filtered by a particular user s name a user search box and check box selectors . The user may select a name of one or more users in the user search box to view images in which the selected one or more users are identified as appearing in the image. In response to this selection the client application may retrieve and display the images that are associated the selected user s name or users names. Furthermore the user may select additional filters via the check box selectors that limit the displayed images to include only the images that the user has uploaded e.g. Your Photos images for which the user commented e.g. Your Comments images that the user has been identified that he or she appears within e.g. Photos of You or images that the user provided a positive indication e.g. Your Likes .

In any event in response to the user providing a selection of a displayed image via selecting any of the above mentioned categories and or subcategories as shown in the client application may redirect the user to another web page or a browser embedded pop up window as shown in that displays an editable print preview of a sample layout of the selected image and associated social networking attributes . The social networking attributes may include for example the names of users identified in the selected image date and location information description information comments associated with the selected image . To generate the editable print preview the client application may retrieve and display any social networking attributes associated with the selected image . The client application may allow the user to edit or crop the size of the image via a crop tool to resize the selected image and change the resolution quality of the selected image . Additionally the client application allows the user to edit or delete the social networking attributes from the editable print preview. For example as shown in the client application allows the user under a Edit photo commentary heading to edit the description associated with the selected image the location of where the selected image was taken and the upload date of the selected image etc. Moreover the client application allows the user to delete comments other users have posted under a Click x to remove comments heading. The user may wish to select a different image and may select a Back to Photos selector indicator to cause the client application to return to the landing page of . If the user wishes to return to the original social networking attributes before the user edited the social networking attributes the user may select a Start Over with this Photo selector indicator to cause the client application to reset the social networking attributes to their state before the user edited or deleted any social networking attributes. When the user is satisfied with the editable print preview the user may select a Preview Your Print selector icon to cause the client application to redirect the user to a print preview page as shown in .

The print order information page within a browser embedded pop up window of may include a size selector icon not shown and a quantity selector icon . In response to receiving a selection of the size selector icon the client application may display the availability of one or more print size selections for the selected image or images to the user. For example upon selecting the size selector icon the client application may display a selection to print the image or the images on 4 6 prints 5 7 prints etc. Additionally the client application may display to the user the corresponding price for each different sized print. Upon receiving a selection for the quantity selector icon the client application may display one or more quantities for which the user may select to print multiple copies of the selected image. Based on the received size and quantity inputs of the user the client application may calculate the total price or quote optionally including sales tax of the print order. Moreover in calculating the total price the client application may also include an applied coupon that the user may enter via the Enter coupon code field and Apply selector icon .

In any event print order information page may also include one or more retail store selector icons that allow the user to select a particular retail store associated with a corresponding retail store selector icon in which to pick up one or more image prints. Each retail store selector icon may include a retail store address a distance to the retail store from the current location of the mobile device an estimated pickup time at which the image prints will be available for pickup at the retail store and an option to pick up the print at the retail store. The client application may additionally select the retail store for the user by using a pre determined default retail store automatically selecting the most proximal retail store or using any other manner suitable to determine a retail store. Alternatively the user may enter a city and state or a zip code into an address field to view retail stores not residing in the immediate geographical area surrounding the current location of the mobile device. For example in response to receiving a zip code the client application displays a list of retail store locations within the received zip code.

In any event the print order information page may also include entry fields for the user to enter biographical information such as a first name entry field a last name entry field an email address entry field and a telephone number entry field . The client application may associate the entered biographical information with the print order so that the retail store may release the image prints to the appropriate customer. The print order confirmation screen may also include an instructional area that may inform the user of a terms of use agreement or privacy policy information. The user may agree to the terms of use or the privacy policy by clicking a check box etc. After the user confirms the correctness of the entered biographical information the pick up retail store location and the instructional area the user may select a Send Order Now selector icon that finalizes and transmits the print order to the proprietary server. Preferably the client application does not require the user to log onto the proprietary network or the client application to complete the print order but rather use the user s biographical information to associate the print order to the user. However the user may have to log into the social networking service for the client application to gain access images social networking attributes and social networking attribute data. If the user desires edit the selected image or associated social networking attributes the user may select the Edit Social Print selector icon to invoke the client application to redirect the user back to the finalized print preview .

In any event in response to receiving a confirmation from the proprietary server that the print order successfully was entered the client application may display a print order receipt screen within a browser embedded pop up window as shown in the that may be displayed to the user via the mobile device . The print order receipt screen may include the size of print the quantity of print ordered the total price the user s biographical information and pick up retail store location of the print order not shown . The user may select the Order Another Print selector icon when finished reviewing the print order receipt and in response the client application may redirect the user to the landing page of .

A remote printing method illustrated in B provides detail about the exemplary embodiment of the remote printing method executed by the remote printing system . After the remote printing system receives a command from the user to execute an instance of the client application the client application displays the landing page as shown in to the user via the display of the mobile device block of . The client application may display one or more image categories block to the user and in response may receive a selection of one of the one or more image categories block . The image categories may be stored on the client device memory or alternatively the client application may query and retrieve all possible image categories from the social networking server. If the image category does not include or is not associated with any subcategories block the client application may retrieve one or more images associated with the selected image category block and display the retrieved one or more images to the user via the display interface block . For example the Tagged Photos of You image category may use the social networking attribute of an identification or tag that refers to the user in retrieving any image that includes a tag associated with the user. The user may select one of the displayed images that are associated with the selected image category block .

On the other hand if the selected category does include subcategories block the client application may retrieve all subcategories associated with the selected category as shown in in a similar manner as described above with the image category. The client application may display the subcategories to the user and may receive a selection of one of the displayed subcategories block . In determining the one or images associated with the subcategory the client application may utilize a pre defined algorithm that may use social networking attribute data as inputs block . The client application may also use the pre defined algorithm to determine sorting order in displaying the one or images associated with the image subcategory to the user. For example in receiving a selection of the Inspire Me image category and a selection of the Top Commented image subcategory as shown in the client application may utilize a pre defined algorithm to determine one or more images associated with the Top Commented image subcategory and may sort those determined one or more images for display to the user. In this example the inputs for the pre defined algorithm for the Top Commented image subcategory may include different types of social networking attribute data such as a number of comments associated with an image the number of positive indications or likes associated with an image whether an image was uploaded within the last week etc. Additionally each social networking attribute data input may be weighted differently depending on the significance of the social networking attribute data input block . For example the pre defined algorithm for the Top Commented image subcategory may include giving double weight e.g. allotting 2 points per each comment associated with an image while only assigning half weight e.g. allotting 0.5 points per each positive indications or likes. The pre defined algorithm may add or average the points or weights to determine a ranking amongst the processed images and the client application may use the ranking to determine which one or more images should be retrieved or a sorting order of the retrieved one or more images block . The weights or points may be allotting in any suitable manner such as subtracting a quarter weight e.g. 0.25 points for every day since an image was uploaded weighting an image in which the user is tagged in higher than other users etc. Of course the above pre defined algorithm is not meant to limit any inputs or weighted data for any image category or image subcategory. The client application may retrieve the one or more determined images that belong to a subset of images associated with the selected image subcategory block .

In any event as shown in the client application may display the retrieved one or more images associated with the image subcategory using the pre defined algorithm block and may receive a selection of an image block . The client application may retrieve any social networking attributes associated with the user selected image block and may display the selected image and associated social networking attributes to the user in an editable print preview page block . Additionally the client application may receive edits or deletes to retrieved social networking attributes block . For example the user may wish to delete an inappropriate comment made by another friend or may wish to correct the location at which the image was photographed. Advantageously the user may include any or all associated social networking attributes with the image giving the user context location and date information the other users or friends that appear in the image etc. Moreover the client application may receive indications of image resizing cropping changing the resolution or any other suitable photo editing of the image block . In response to receiving an indication that the user is satisfied with the editable print preview the client application may direct the user to selection a print size and quantity of prints.

The client application may display the available print sizes and available quantities of the prints e.g. the print order information screen in to the user for the user s selection. In response to receiving a selection of the print size and the quantity of prints block as shown in the client application may determine whether a default pickup retail store has been selected block as shown in . The default pickup retail store may be a retail store that the user most often frequents a retail store that is closest to the user s home or work etc. If a default pickup retail store has been determined by the user the client application may request the user s biographical information for the print order block by displaying for example the print order confirmation screen as shown in .

On the other hand if the user has not determined the default pickup retail store the client application as shown in may execute a location awareness application that coordinates with the GPS unit to geo locate the current location of the web enabled device block . If the current location of the web enabled device is available the client application may determine a list of proximal retail stores to the current location and may display only the retail stores that include the shortest distance to the current location of the web enabled device block . On the other hand if the current location is not available the client application may only receive address information from the user block such as receiving address information from the user via the address field on the retail store selection screen in . Using the location associated with the entered address information the client application may determine a list of proximal retails stores to the location associated with the entered address information block and may display only the retail stores that include the shortest distance to the location associated with the entered address information. The user may select a desired retail store from the displayed retail stores via the retail store selector icons block for example. In response to receiving a selection of the retail store the client application may request biographical information from the user as described above block .

Upon receiving biographical information from the user the client application may create and transmit the print order and associated biographical information to the proprietary server block . If the print order is successfully received by the proprietary server the client application may receive a print order receipt and may display the receipt to the user block .

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of routines subroutines applications or instructions. These may constitute either software e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware. In hardware the routines etc. are tangible units capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description and the claims that follow should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

This detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment as describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. One could implement numerous alternate embodiments using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this application.

