---

title: Information types for an APP rating system
abstract: A technique to automatically provide assistance with the selection of an app for an electronic game is described. An apparatus may comprise an app rating application arranged to receive as input game performance information representing gameplay of an electronic game. The app rating application may process the game performance information and output an app rating indicator of an app corresponding to the app identifier parameter based on the performance information to assist a user in selecting the app. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08660674&OS=08660674&RS=08660674
owner: CBS Interative, Inc.
number: 08660674
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120403
---
The instant application claims priority to and is a continuation of commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 350 267 titled Information Types For An App Rating System filed on Jan. 13 2012 which claims priority to and is a Continuation In Part CIP of commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 293 826 titled APP RATING SYSTEM filed on Nov. 10 2011 both cases of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Electronic games have grown in popularity and complexity over the years. In particular certain types of electronic games include game experiences which mimic or track real life activities such as sports hobbies etc. These games are provided by computer applications hosted by local servers and or by servers in the World Wide Web that allow users to participate on line among a group of participants interested in the same type of gameplay. Other types of electronic games are related to the convergence between media content companies and electronic game companies. Traditional media content such as movies or television shows normally designed for pure viewer consumption are now including an interactive component similar to video games ranging from companion and supplemental information for media content available online through a mobile device to actually changing a storyline for a show in response to electronic viewer feedback.

This increased array of electronic game type activity has given rise to various software applications that assist users in processing information related to and or necessary for gameplay. A user of an electronic game may need assistance with various aspects of gameplay including but not limited to advanced instruction tutorials player information processing statistical analyses etc. Applications offered by the game manufacturers as well as third parties provide a means to provide this assistance. For example participants in fantasy sports games receive volumes of statistical information related to the performance of real life athletes that comprise one or more fantasy teams. Users must analyze this information in making roster and or strategy decisions on a regular basis during the fantasy sports season which necessitates additional time and attention by the participant. Certain applications directed at one or more of these types of electronic games may be available to a participant that processes this information and or provide an automatic interface with certain aspects of gameplay. For example an app may be configured to retrieve quarterback ratings for real life players on a weekly basis and process these ratings to provide rankings of quarterbacks based on custom point allocations for a particular fantasy football league or game. It would be useful for an electronic game participant to be provided with an evaluation of these applications for use with electronic gameplay based on an objective assessment of utility. This would provide participants with quick access to information on which applications provide utility to gameplay thereby enhancing the gaming experience. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present improvements have been needed.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are generally directed to an app rating system. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques to rate particular apps based on performance information of game play of an electronic game to which the app is associated. In one embodiment for example an apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and an app rating application operative on the processor circuit. The app rating application is operative to receive performance information and an app identifier parameter associated with a competitive event such as for example an electronic game. The app rating application is operative to output an app rating indicator of an app corresponding to the app identifier parameter based on the performance information to assist a user in selecting the app for one or more electronic games.

In one embodiment for example a computer implemented method comprises determining whether a user of an electronic game utilizes an app in game play based on user identifier information and an app identifier parameter. An app rating indicator associated with the app is determined based on the received game performance information.

To accomplish the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are generally directed to an app rating system used in connection with electronic games. As used herein the term app is an abbreviation for an application and means a software program that can run on a computer or similar processing device designed to perform certain tasks or functions by itself in combination with and or as a compliment to another software application such as for example an electronic game. For the purposes of this disclosure when the term app is used separately from the term application it is intended to refer to two separate software programs and or app is intended to distinguish one application from another application .

The gaming mechanics described herein can be used in any sort of game and gaming mechanics where a platform utilizes data from a real time gaming situation with the same rules functions and mechanics described herein to simulate a new game based upon the same rules and mechanics with the same data and or different data that is being supplied in a different way for a different purpose depending on the type of game. For example the gaming mechanics may comprise any electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface to generate multimedia feedback on an electronic platform such as a computing device video game console handheld computer arcade machine and so forth. The games may include any genre based on many factors such as game play types of goals art style and more and may include without limitation graphic adventures point and click adventures text adventures sports first person adventures first person shooters comic adventures anime adventures reality interactive television based games and so forth. It may be appreciated that any number of different games and gaming mechanics may be implemented for a given game that provides assistance to the user participant to facilitate game play. However the embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the term electronic game refers to any game that employs electronics to create an interactive system with which a player can play at least a portion of the game. There are various general categories of electronic games. One category of electronic games includes games that are completely played on some form of a personal or local electronic device such as a personal computer smart phone etc. Examples may include without limitation electronic video games electronic audio games electronic tactile games electronic board games handheld electronic games and so forth. Another category includes electronic games that may be partially played on some form of a personal electronic device and partially played on a centralized or server based platform. In other words an entire game does not necessarily need to be played on a personal electronic device but rather utilizes the personal electronic device to play a portion of the game and the server based platform manages various game activities for one or more users. For example the second category may include live entertainment shows e.g. television shows reality television shows game shows award shows etc. with one or more contestants playing a game with an electronic component to play a portion of or as a compliment to the game and or fantasy sports games or leagues that utilizes one or more game servers as the central processing facility for gameplay. These are merely a few examples of first and second categories for electronic games other implementations exist as well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques for automatically determining an app rating indicator associated with an app used in combination with a particular electronic game based on the performance of a user of that electronic game. In one embodiment an app rating may be provided to a user by displaying the rating with an app icon on an app store web page. The app rating is determined by the app rating system based on game performance information of users of that electronic game that have downloaded the particular app. Embodiments are not limited in this context.

Automatically presenting app rating information to assist a user of an electronic game in selecting which of several available apps is associated with better game performance has several advantages over conventional solutions. For instance conventional solutions typically require that a user purchase an app for a particular electronic game before being able to sample the app during gameplay. If a user purchases an app to assist with electronic gameplay and the user does not find it helpful then the user has wasted both money and time with the app. In addition certain app stores may provide user reviews associated with an app. However user reviews are subjective interpretations from different users of the quality and or utility of the app. Moreover these reviews may be provided by users that have varying degrees of game experience and expertise which may compromise the usefulness of the reviews. Automatically providing app rating information based on game performance information provides an objective quantifiable indication of the usefulness and quality of the app which reduces or eliminates unnecessary app purchases used with particular electronic games. As a result a user may have an improved gaming experience.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

The system comprises the app rating application that may generally be arranged to automatically manage app rating information for one or more electronic games. The app rating application may receive as input game performance information representing gameplay by a user of an electronic game. The app rating application may process the game performance information to determine a rating of an app used in combination with the electronic game and provide an app rating indicator based on the game performance information. The app rating application may then send as output the app rating indicator for a particular app to an app store server to be displayed with the app to assist a user in selecting among a plurality of apps associated with a particular electronic game.

Game performance information may generally comprise any information or metadata available from one or more network devices accessible by the app rating system and useful in determining the performance e.g. wins losses ties of a user playing an electronic game utilizing an app. Examples of game performance information may include without limitation wins losses ties and other similar types of competitive results associated with gameplay of the electronic game. The game performance information may be provided by individual user client devices that run electronic games thereon that communicate with app rating system or from individual user client devices that run in combination with a game server accessible by the app rating system and or may be provided by a game server e.g. shown in which facilitates game play by a user where users access the game server via one or more web pages. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments game performance information may comprise two general types of information. In one embodiment for example type one game performance information may comprise direct forms of information hereinafter direct information . In one embodiment for example type two game performance information may comprise indirect forms of information hereinafter indirect information . The term direct refers to information that explicitly evidences to some defined degree of certainty that a particular app improves performance of a fantasy player without any further need of inferences or assumptions. The term indirect refers to information that implicitly evidences a particular app improves performance of a fantasy player while utilizing one or more inferences or assumptions. It may be appreciated that these are merely two exemplary types of game performance information and other types of game performance information may be used as well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Direct information is any information helpful in objectively quantifying how an app improves performance of a fantasy player. Direct information may include for example information measuring an outcome of a fantasy game or a fantasy league played by a fantasy player such as a win loss or tie information. For instance assume a fantasy player purchases an app designed to select a starting lineup for a fantasy game. Further assume the fantasy player has a win percentage of fantasy games of 49 prior to purchasing the app and a win percentage of 61 after purchasing the app. Utilizing known statistical analysis techniques to filter out external variables the 12 improvement in fantasy player performance may be analyzed to determine whether this improvement is directly attributable to the fantasy player actually using the app versus other external reasons e.g. easier league different sport luck etc. with a relatively high level of confidence. Other information may be used to increase or decrease this confidence level. For instance assume it is know that the fantasy player actually utilized the app in each of the fantasy games played after purchasing the app. This information combined with the 12 increase in win percentage may increase the confidence level of the analysis.

Indirect information is any information helpful in objectively quantifying performance of a fantasy player. An inference may then be combined with the indirect information to estimate or predict how an app improves performance of the fantasy player. Indirect information may include for example information measuring performance or activity of a fantasy player outside of direct information described above. Examples of indirect information may include without limitation player ratings player rankings player classifications player professional activities player social activities player identifiers types of fantasy games played by a fantasy player fantasy leagues joined by a fantasy player fantasy roles performed by a fantasy player associations between fantasy players fantasy apps used by a fantasy player non fantasy apps used by a fantasy player number of apps used by a fantasy player equipment used by a fantasy player recommendations for a fantasy player made by other fantasy players and so forth. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

In one embodiment indirect information may comprise player rating information. For example assume a source provides periodically aperiodically or continuously calculates ratings for a fantasy player. The source may be a fantasy game provider or an independent third party. For instance assume a source utilizes a rating algorithm to rate performance of a fantasy player based on a number of fantasy sports played by the fantasy player during some time period e.g. per year with a higher number of fantasy sports providing a higher rating for the fantasy player. In another example assume a rating algorithm performs ratings based on difficulty of a league. A league played by former professional athletes or professional fantasy gamers would be more challenging than a league played by random fantasy players. A fantasy player playing in a more difficult league may therefore have a higher rating relative to a fantasy player playing in a less difficult league. In yet another example assume a rating algorithm performs ratings based on a number of articles or blogs published by a fantasy player. A fantasy player that takes the time to write articles or blog posts and publishes this to other fantasy players may have a higher level of insight into strategy of a fantasy game. A fantasy player publishing a higher number of articles or blogs may have a higher rating relative to a fantasy player publishing a lower number of articles or blogs. These are merely a few examples of indirect information and others exist as well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

These and other types of indirect information may be used separately or combined to output a player rating. The player rating may then be combined with an inference that a higher player rating indicates a better fantasy player. Another inference is a better fantasy player selects better apps. Therefore an app purchased by a fantasy player with a higher rating is a better application relative to an app purchased by a fantasy player with a lower rating. A set of defined thresholds may be set to trigger different outcomes based on player ratings. For instance assume a fantasy player has a player rating of 7.8 on a scale from 1 10. A defined threshold of 9.0 or above may be set to indicate an A rating a defined threshold of 8.0 to 8.9 may be set to indicate a B rating a defined threshold of 7.0 to 7.9 may indicate a C rating and so forth. In this case the player rating of 7.8 may indicate a C level fantasy player. An app purchased by a C level fantasy player would not be as good as an app purchased by an A level fantasy player assuming the inference that better players select better apps is true.

In one embodiment indirect information may comprise player ranking information. For example assume a source provides periodically aperiodically or continuously calculates player ratings for a fantasy player and then ranks fantasy players based on the respective player ratings in some defined order e.g. highest to lowest . Unlike player ratings by themselves which indicate performance of single fantasy player player ranking information indicates relative performance of a fantasy player within a defined group of fantasy players. For instance assume player ratings are used to rank fantasy players of a group of fantasy players participating in a fantasy game such as fantasy soccer. These fantasy players may be ranked based on their respective player ratings in some order such as 1 to N where 1 is the highest ranking and N is the lowest ranking.

These and other types of indirect information may be used separately or combined to output a player ranking. The player ranking may then be combined with an inference that a higher player ranking indicates a better fantasy player. Another inference is a better fantasy player selects better apps. Therefore an app purchased by a fantasy player with a higher ranking is a better application relative to an app purchased by a fantasy player with a lower ranking. A set of defined thresholds may be set to trigger different outcomes based on player ratings. For instance assume a fantasy player has a player ranking in a first quartile while another fantasy player has a player ranking in the last quartile. An app purchased by a first quartile fantasy player would be better than an app purchased by fourth quartile fantasy player assuming the inference that better players select better apps is true.

In one embodiment indirect information may comprise player classification information. For example assume a source provides periodically aperiodically or continuously calculates player classifications for a fantasy player. Similar to player rankings player classifications indicate different classes of fantasy players. The player classifications may utilize a classifier algorithm to combine player ratings information player ranking information and other sorts of indirect information. For instance assume a source defines different classes of fantasy players such as a Professional Class and an Amateur Class. To be classified as a Professional Class fantasy player a fantasy player needs to have played fantasy games for at least 10 years participated in a highest defined league for the last 5 of the 10 years have an average player rating of 9.0 or higher have an average player ranking in the top 5 and won a championship in at least two different fantasy games e.g. fantasy football and fantasy baseball . All other fantasy players are by default placed in the Amateur Class.

These and other types of indirect information may be used separately or combined to output a player classification. The player classification may then be combined with an inference that a fantasy player in a higher class indicates a better fantasy player. Another inference is a better fantasy player selects better apps. Therefore an app purchased by a fantasy player with a higher player classification is a better application relative to an app purchased by a fantasy player with a lower player classification. For instance assume a fantasy player is in a Professional Class while another fantasy player is in an Amateur Class. An app purchased by a Professional Class fantasy player would be better than an app purchased by an Amateur Class fantasy player assuming the inference that better players select better apps is true.

In addition to player rating information player ranking information and player classification information other types of indirect information may be used to quantify performance of a fantasy player either by refining the player rating ranking or classification information or independently of the player rating ranking and classification information.

In one embodiment indirect information such as player professional activities e.g. occupation may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. Presumably a professional soccer player would be a better fantasy soccer player than a dentist who never played soccer in the past.

In one embodiment indirect information such as player social activities e.g. golf may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. A social golfer would be a better fantasy golf player than a non golfer.

In one embodiment indirect information such as types of fantasy games played by a fantasy player e.g. sports versus politics may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. A fantasy player having previous playing experience in fantasy sports may perform better than a fantasy player having previous playing experience in fantasy politics in fantasy sports games.

In one embodiment indirect information such as skill level of fantasy games played by a fantasy player e.g. lower complexity versus higher complexity may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. A fantasy player participating in fantasy games needing a higher skill level may perform better than a fantasy player participating in fantasy games aimed at lower skilled players.

In one embodiment indirect information such as number of fantasy leagues joined by a fantasy player e.g. 1 versus 4 professional versus amateur etc. may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. A fantasy player participating in a higher number of leagues or more competitive leagues may be a better fantasy player than a fantasy player participating in a lower number of leagues.

In one embodiment indirect information such as number or frequency of web site visits by a fantasy player e.g. once a week versus once a day may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. A fantasy player visiting a web site offering fantasy game services more often may be a better fantasy player than a fantasy player visiting a web site less often.

In one embodiment indirect information such as fantasy roles performed by a fantasy player e.g. league organizer league commissioner league commentator league referee league coordinator etc. may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. Higher level roles may indicate a higher level of involvement and interest in fantasy games thereby indicating a better fantasy player.

In one embodiment indirect information such as associations between fantasy players e.g. friends or social networks may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. Good fantasy players tend to gravitate towards each other due to a higher level of common interest. Therefore a friend of a known good fantasy player may be assumed to be a same caliber of fantasy player as the known fantasy player.

In one embodiment indirect information such as fantasy apps used by a fantasy player e.g. team drafting apps team management apps team player analyzers etc. may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. Some fantasy games are highly competitive. Once a good fantasy player acquires an app and experiences higher levels of success other fantasy players learn about the success and attempt to obtain the same apps to increase their competitive edge. Therefore when multiple high level fantasy players are all using the same app it is typically an indicator that the app is a better than other apps. Therefore apps of a fantasy player may be an indicator of a playing ability of a fantasy player. The same may be true for non fantasy apps. For instance if a superior fantasy player always utilizes a certain spreadsheet app to maintain fantasy sport statistics and other fantasy players of similar caliber use the same spreadsheet app then the spreadsheet app may be an indicator of player performance.

In one embodiment indirect information such as number of apps used by a fantasy player e.g. 2 versus 10 apps may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. If a stronger fantasy player typically uses 5 or more apps while a weaker fantasy player typically uses 4 or less apps the number of apps may be used as an indicator of player performance.

In one embodiment indirect information such as equipment used by a fantasy player e.g. operating system computing platform communications transceiver etc. may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. If a stronger fantasy player typically uses a certain OS on a certain device e.g. a smart phone while a weaker fantasy player typically uses a different OS on a different device e.g. a desktop computer the type of equipment may be used as an indicator of player performance.

In one embodiment indirect information such as recommendations for a fantasy player made by other fantasy players e.g. likes dislikes comments etc. may be strong indicators of fantasy player performance. For instance if a fantasy player s comments consistently receive a higher number of likes than dislikes as measured by some ratio this may indicate a better fantasy player.

It is worthy to note that to the extent embodiments of the app rating application as described below make reference to app ratings derived using direct information e.g. wins losses ties etc. it may be appreciated that the embodiments may generate app ratings e.g. app rating indictor derived using one or more types of indirect information or a combination of one or more types of direct information and one or more types of indirect information using techniques similar to those described with reference to direct information. Any number and combination of direct and indirect types of information may be used to generate app ratings. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In addition to the above described matching of fantasy players based on the presumption that better players pick better apps indirection information may be combined with a presumption that fantasy players of the same skill level may choose similar apps. Such choices may be due to the level of detail of information provided to the fantasy player e.g. simpler interface with less variables to consider may be more effective for the less sophisticated fantasy player . In addition such factors as specific features or functionality associated with certain types of apps may infer a preferred type of app for a category of fantasy player who uses such apps. For example if certain less sophisticated fantasy players gravitate toward a category of apps that utilize recommendation features that help the fantasy player make decisions on how to manage his fantasy sports team then other applications that have similar features and functionality may be preferred by fantasy players with a similar skillset level. Similarly if there is a degree of involvement certain fantasy players may have with engaging with the fantasy sport team e.g. someone who only manages his her team on the weekends such fantasy players may have similar apps that help with achieving this goal e.g. not having to manage the fantasy sport team during the weekday due to automation features that are available with the app recommended to that fantasy player. Such skillset level as well as use case behavior can be used to not only recommend similar apps that other fantasy players with similar skill and or behavior may desire but also to help provide feedback to app developers as to what sorts of features are popular or unpopular in order to help app developers enhance their apps. It may be appreciated that these are merely a few examples that illustrate how monitoring success preferences use case scenarios and other characteristics of the fantasy player can be used to help facilitate the matching of apps with fantasy players with similar characteristics.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the app rating application may include a game performance monitor component an app rating component and an app ranking component . It may be appreciated that more or less components may be used for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context. The game performance monitor component may generally be arranged to receive monitor or otherwise collect game performance information from a game server and or from a plurality of user client devices playing the electronic game. The game performance information may comprise direct information indirect information or some combination of direct information and indirect information. The game performance information may be real time information delayed information or historical information. The game performance monitor component may monitor game performance information on a periodic continuous or on demand basis. The game monitor component may analyze received game performance information and determine the success failure of gameplay of one or more users employing a particular app. When game performance information for a user is received by the game performance monitor component the game performance monitor component analyzes the information to determine if an app is employed by the user based on a user profile stored in datastore as described in more detail with reference to . The game performance information is aggregated based on the type of electronic game and associated gameplay. The game performance monitor component may perform any processing needed for the game performance information e.g. formatting data schema translations etc. in order to allow the performance information to be aggregated.

The app rating application may comprise an app rating component which is generally arranged to calculate an app rating based on the received aggregated game performance information from the game performance monitor component . The app rating component processes the aggregated game performance information based on one or more weighting factors dependent on the type of aggregated game performance information and the type of electronic game. The app rating application outputs an app rating indicator based on the weighted aggregated game performance information and sends the app rating indicator to an app store server and or to a game server on which the related electronic game is managed. In this manner the app rating component generates an app rating indicator that assists users in selecting apps associated with particular electronic games based on objective and quantifiable game performance information.

The app rating application may also comprise an app ranking component which communicates with the app rating component to receive the app rating indicator and assign an app ranking parameter to the app based on the app ranking parameter and the particular electronic game associated with the app. In this manner apps used for the same electronic game may be ranked and compared by a user interested in acquiring an app to assist with gameplay.

In one exemplary use scenario the electronic game may be a fantasy sports game run on one or more servers and accessed by a plurality of participants to form one or more fantasy sports leagues. The fantasy sports game utilizes statistics from real life players in athletic competitions where participants select these real life players in various positions to form fantasy teams. Each real life sport includes commonly used statistics which translate into points associated with the fantasy sports game. Each fantasy team in the fantasy league may compete against all the other teams in the fantasy league head to head style in scheduled matchups or accumulate points based on player statistics in chosen categories throughout the season rotisserie style or ranked style . Success of a particular fantasy team in the fantasy league is determined by the cumulative number of points obtained by each of the fantasy players corresponding to the performance of the real life players during the real life athletic competitions.

One or more game users may utilize a particular app to assist with gameplay of such a fantasy sports game. For example a user may employ an app that ranks real life players by position according to a point allocation customized for a particular fantasy sports league. In particular an app may be configured to automatically receive real life player statistics corresponding to a game user s fantasy player in real time and provide a preview of the user s team point total by position. In this scenario the app may need to communicate with the game server to identify the customized point allocation for the fantasy league as well as downloading the user s current player roster in order to calculate a preview of a team point total by position. The game performance monitor component receives game performance information from either the client device of the user or from the fantasy sports game server. In this exemplary use scenario for example the game performance information represents direct information such as the wins losses and ties of the fantasy sports game by the user that employs the particular app. The app rating component calculates an app rating indicator based on the game performance information received from game performance monitor component and sends this app rating indicator to an app server from which the particular app may be purchased or otherwise downloaded by a different user. In this manner the app rating indicator signifies whether or not a user that employs a particular app demonstrated gameplay success which provides objective evidence of the app s utility to a different user interested in selecting the app.

In one embodiment for example the game performance parameters may include a user identifier parameter a game identifier parameter a game event parameter and game performance parameters . It may be appreciated that more or less parameters may be used for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

A user identifier parameter may comprise some form of unique identifier for a user. Examples of a user identifier parameter may include without limitation a user name a user identifier a screen name a login identifier a gamer tag a gamer account a user globally unique identifier GUID user metadata and so forth.

A game identifier parameter may comprise a unique identifier for an electronic game such as for example a fantasy sports game electronic video game etc. Examples of a game identifier parameter may include without limitation a game name a game identifier a game serial number a game version number a game service identifier game badges game achievements game awards a game character a game genre a game theme a game account game metadata a game GUID and so forth.

A game event parameter may comprise a unique identifier for a game event of an electronic game. A game event may comprise a discrete portion of an electronic game. For example a game event for a fantasy sports game may be a season one or more games within a season a portion of a game and or one or more playoff games. Examples of a game event parameter may include without limitation a game event name a game event identifier a game event badge a game event achievement a game event award a game event character a game event genre a game event theme game event metadata a game event GUID and so forth.

In one embodiment game performance parameters may comprise performance characteristics for a game event parameter of an electronic game. In this case the game performance parameters may represent direct information such as success and failure information for a particular game or game event associated with a game event parameter . For example game performance parameters may include without limitation wins losses and ties of an electronic game or game event. In the exemplary scenario mentioned above for a fantasy sports game such as for example fantasy football a game event may be a football season and the performance parameters may be the number of wins losses and ties of a user s fantasy football team during the season representing the game event parameter . As a further example a game event may be a football game and the game performance parameters may be whether or not the user s fantasy football team won the individual game representing the game event parameter .

In one embodiment game performance characteristics may comprise performance characteristics of a fantasy player for a game event parameter of an electronic game as identified by a user identifier parameter for example. In this case the game performance parameters may represent indirect information such as values representing player ratings player rankings player classifications player professional activities player social activities player identifiers types of fantasy games played by a fantasy player fantasy leagues joined by a fantasy player fantasy roles performed by a fantasy player associations between fantasy players fantasy apps used by a fantasy player non fantasy apps used by a fantasy player number of apps used by a fantasy player equipment used by a fantasy player recommendations for a fantasy player made by other fantasy players and so forth.

The game performance monitor component receives an app identifier parameter from a user profile stored in data store . The app identifier parameter is based on the information stored in user profile corresponding to the user identifier parameter . Each time a user obtains an app associated with a particular electronic game the app identifier parameter is stored in the user profile associated with the particular electronic game having a game identifier parameter . The user identifier parameter is supplied to game performance monitor component which performs a check against the information in the user profile to determine if the user corresponding to the user identifier parameter is employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game based on the game identifier parameter . If the user is employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game the app identifier parameter from user profile is requested by and supplied to the game performance component . If the user is not employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game then the app identifier parameter is not stored in user profile and the game performance monitor component does not retrieve the game performance parameters . In addition the game event parameter defines for particular game events the game performance parameters provided to game performance monitor component for aggregation. In particular a game event parameter may be different for different electronic games. As noted above a game event parameter may be an individual game season portion of a season and or portion of an individual game for example and therefore the game performance parameters may correspond to wins losses and or ties for an individual game season portion of a season and or portion of an individual game.

The game performance monitor component receives a set of one or more game performance parameters and generates aggregated performance parameters . The aggregated performance parameters may comprise an aggregated value of a user s wins losses and or ties associated with an electronic game and a conversion of the aggregated value of a user s wins losses and or ties to a corresponding percentage of games played corresponding to the game event parameter . Game performance monitor component aggregates the game performance parameters e.g. wins losses and ties and converts the aggregated value to a win percentage for an electronic game associated with the app identifier parameter . For example one aggregated performance parameter may be calculated using the following equation for game performance parameter representing wins losses and ties in the fantasy sports exemplary scenario Win wins ties 2 wins losses ties . Eq. 1 Again the values associated with wins losses and ties are based on the game event parameter and may represent for example wins losses and ties of an individual game a group of games a season etc. It may be appreciated that different equations may be used for a given electronic game corresponding to a game identifier parameter for various game event parameters and for particular game performance parameters . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

For certain electronic games a greater aggregated value may be associated with wins losses and or ties in a playoff and or championship context versus a regular game context. As such the aggregated performance parameters may further comprise a playoff ratio as well as a championship ratio for a user of a particular electronic game corresponding to the game identifier parameter and app identifier parameter . For example one aggregated performance parameter may be calculated using the following equation for game performance parameter representing a playoff ratio in the above mentioned fantasy sports exemplary scenario Playoff ratio of playoff teams total teams using app Eq. 2 This game performance parameter quantifies by providing a ratio or percentage the success of a user making the playoffs as compared to the number of playoff teams within a particular league. In addition a user may have more than one team within a particular electronic game. Thus the playoff ratio is based on the number of teams using a particular app rather than the number of users employing the app. As a further example another aggregated performance parameter may be calculated using the following equation for game performance parameter representing a championship ratio in the fantasy sports exemplary scenario Champions ratio of champion teams total teams using app Eq. 3 This game performance parameter quantifies by providing a ratio or percentage of the number of championship teams as compared to the total number of teams using a particular app. Since only a certain number of teams may obtain a championship status with the electronic game this game performance parameter may receive a greater weight when calculating the aggregated performance parameter . Again it may be appreciated that different equations may be used for a given electronic game and for particular game performance parameters . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the operating environment receives the aggregated performance parameters from the game performance monitor component . For example the app rating component receives the wins losses ties percentages the playoff ratio and the championship ratio and calculates the app rating indicator . Since the aggregated performance parameters are associated with a particular app based on the app identifier parameter the app rating component calculates the app rating indicator for the particular app and stores the indicator in datastore . The app rating indicator associated with the particular app may also be sent to an app server on which the app associated with the electronic game is available to a user for download to use in combination with gameplay. In this manner the app rating indicator provides a different user with objective quantifiable information about the utility of the app since the app rating indicator is based on gameplay performance of other users that employ the app rather than subjective user review information.

The determination of the app rating indicator may be accomplished by app rating component by applying the weighting factor to one or more of the aggregated performance parameters and combining these weighted performance parameters. The weighting factor may be stored in datastore and may be associated with a particular electronic game and or a particular app. The application of various weighting factors may be applied to the aggregated performance parameters based on for example the type of electronic game and or app as well as based on a game event parameter . In particular game event parameter that represents performance over a longer period of time may receive a greater weighting factor applied to the aggregated performance parameters as compared to performance over a shorter period of time.

In addition the playoff ratio and championship ratio may be combined with the wins losses ties percentages and a weighting factor is applied to the championship ratio since performance of a user associated with the championship ratio demonstrates additional success above the wins losses ties percentages of a regular game. Alternatively the playoff ratio and championship ratio may be combined with the wins losses ties percentages and a weighting factor is applied to the playoff ratio . As a further alternative the playoff ratio and championship ratio may be combined with the wins losses ties percentages and a negative weighting factor is applied to the wins losses ties ratio since performance of a user associated with the wins losses ties percentages may hold less performance weight than either the playoff ratio or championship ratio . Depending on the type of electronic game associated with the aggregated performance parameters different weighting factors may be applied to output an app rating indictor for a particular app.

As previously described with reference to the operating environment the app rating component generates an app rating indicator for each app corresponding to the app identifier parameter associated with a particular electronic game. The app rating component is based on the aggregated performance parameters which provides a rating corresponding to objective user performance through gameplay of the electronic game. The app rating indicators are supplied to app ranking component which receives the app identifier parameter from datastore to generate the app ranking parameter for each app. The app ranking component compares the app rating indicators associated with a plurality of apps for an electronic game and assigns an app ranking parameter to the app based on the value of each of the app rating indicators . The frequency by which the app ranking component generates the app ranking parameter may be defined by the number of app ranking indicators received within a given time period and or may be based on the number of game event parameters received by game performance monitor component . The app ranking parameters may be sent to an app server and displayed with the corresponding app. In addition the app ranking parameters may also be stored in datastore . In this manner a user may view app ranking parameters in view of other app ranking parameters associated with other apps available for download for an electronic game. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed system. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may determine whether a user of an electronic game utilizes an app in gameplay at block . For example each time a user obtains an app associated with a particular electronic game the app identifier parameter is stored in the user profile associated with the particular electronic game having a game identifier parameter . The user identifier parameter is supplied to game performance monitor component which performs a check against the information in the user profile to determine if the user corresponding to the user identifier parameter is employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game based on the game identifier parameter . If the user is employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game the app identifier parameter from user profile is requested by and supplied to the game performance component . If the user is not employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game then the app identifier parameter is not stored in user profile and the game performance monitor component does not retrieve the game performance parameters .

The logic flow may receive game performance information representing gameplay of the electronic game at block . For example game performance information is supplied to game performance monitor component . Game performance parameters may comprise performance characteristics for a game event parameter of an electronic game. In particular game performance parameters may comprise success and failure information for a particular game or game event associated with a game event parameter including without limitation wins losses and ties of an electronic game or game event.

The logic flow determines an app rating indicator for the app associated with the electronic game based on the game performance information at block . For example the app rating component receives aggregated game performance information from game performance monitor component . The app rating component applies a weighting factor to one or more of the aggregated performance parameters and combines these weighted performance parameters. In addition various weighting factors may be applied to the aggregated performance parameters based on for example the type of electronic game and or app as well as based on a game event parameter .

The logic flow sends the app rating indicator to an app server and to an app ranking component at block . For example the app rating component determines an app rating indicator for a particular app associated with an electronic game. The app rating indicator is sent to an app server e.g. shown in where it is displayed with the associated app. The app rating indicator provides a different user that views the apps on an app server with objective quantifiable information about the utility of the app since the app rating indicator is based on gameplay performance of other users that employ the app rather than subjective user review information.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow receives a user identifier parameter representing a user of an electronic game at block . For example game performance parameters may include a user identifier parameter which may comprise some form of unique identifier for a user. Examples of a user identifier parameter may include without limitation a user name a user identifier a screen name a login identifier a gamer tag a gamer account a user globally unique identifier GUID player metadata and so forth.

The logic flow retrieves an app identifier from a user profile associated with the user identifier parameter at block . For example the game performance monitor component receives an app identifier parameter from a user profile stored in data store . The app identifier parameter is based on the information stored in user profile corresponding to the user identifier parameter . Each time a user obtains an app associated with a particular electronic game the app identifier parameter is stored in the user profile . The user identifier parameter is supplied to game performance monitor component which performs a check against the information in the user profile to determine if the user corresponding to the user identifier parameter is employing an app in connection with gameplay of the particular electronic game based on the game identifier parameter 

The logic flow receives win loss and tie information associated with gameplay of the electronic game by the user at block . For example game performance monitor component receives game performance parameters which may comprise performance characteristics for a game event parameter of an electronic game. Game performance parameters may comprise success and failure information for a particular game or game event associated with a game event parameter . Game performance parameters may include without limitation wins losses and ties of an electronic game or game event.

The logic flow aggregates the received win loss and tie information of the electronic game at block . For example the game performance monitor component aggregates performance parameters and may comprise an aggregated value of a user s wins losses and or ties associated with an electronic game. In the case where a particular electronic game does not have head to head type wins losses and or ties the game performance monitor component may convert the game performance parameters into an approximation of a win value and a loss value and these approximated values are aggregated. Returning to the fantasy sports game exemplary scenario if a fantasy sports team is participating in a ranked league rather than a head to head league the user s team ranking is converted to an approximate win value and loss value and aggregated as described in more detail with reference to .

The logic flow converts the aggregated win loss and tie information of the electronic game to a percentage at block . For example the game performance monitor component converts the aggregated value of a user s wins losses and or ties to a corresponding percentage of games played. Various algorithms may be used for a given electronic game corresponding to a game identifier parameter for various game event parameters and for particular game performance parameters . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow receives the gameplay performance percentages at block . For example the app rating component receives the wins losses ties percentages the playoff ratio and the championship ratio from the game performance monitor component .

The logic flow weighs each of the game performance percentages with one or more weighting factors at block . For example the app rating component may apply a weighting factor to one or more of the aggregated performance parameters . The weighting factor may be associated with a particular electronic game and or a particular app. The application of various weighting factors may be applied to the aggregated performance parameters based on for example the type of electronic game and or app as well as based on a game event parameter .

The logic flow combines the weighted performance percentages to generate an app rating for a particular app at block . For example the app rating component combines the various weighted performance percentages to generate an app rating. In particular the app rating component combines the playoff ratio and championship ratio with the wins losses ties percentages after one or more weighting factors is applied to one or more of the performance percentages. Depending on the type of electronic game associated with the aggregated performance parameters different weighting factors may be applied to output an app rating indictor for a particular app.

The logic flow outputs the app rating for the app based on the combined weighted performance percentages at block . For example the app rating component may store the app rating indicator in datastore and or may send the app rating indicator to an app server on which the app associated with the electronic game is available to a user for download to use in combination with gameplay. The app rating provides a user with an objective evaluation of the particular app based on gameplay by users that previously downloaded the app.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow receives the app rating indicators for a plurality of apps associated with a particular electronic game at block . For example app ranking component receives and processes app rating indicators from the app rating component . The app rating component generates an app rating indicator for each app corresponding to the app identifier parameter associated with a particular electronic game. The app rating component is based on the aggregated performance parameters which provides a rating corresponding to objective user performance through gameplay of the electronic game.

The logic flow assigns an app ranking parameter to each of the app rating indicators at block . For example the app ranking parameter receives the app rating indicators from the app rating component and receives the app identifier parameter from datastore . The app ranking component assigns an app ranking parameter for each app associated with the same electronic game based on the app rating indicators and the app identifier parameter .

The logic flow determines an app ranking based on the app ranking parameter associated with the app and the electronic game at block . For example the app ranking component ranks the apps as identified by the app identifier parameter based on the app ranking parameters for the apps used in connection with the same electronic game.

The logic flow sends the app ranking parameter to an app store server at block . For example the app ranking parameters are sent to an app store server e.g. shown in which may display the ranking parameters associated with each app to a user. Alternatively the app store server may order the icons associated with the apps based on the app ranking parameters . This provides a user with ranking information of one app versus other apps associated with the same electronic game for ease of comparison.

The app rating server may comprise any electronic device capable of receiving processing and sending information for the system . Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation an ultra mobile device a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone eBook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The server device may execute processing operations or logic for the system using a processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The app rating server may execute communications operations or logic for the system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired communications media and wireless communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit boards PCB backplanes switch fabrics semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics a propagated signal and so forth. Examples of wireless communications media may include acoustic radio frequency RF spectrum infrared and other wireless media.

The device may communicate with game server one or more client devices and app store server over a communications media and respectively using communications signals and respectively via the communications component . The devices and may be internal or external to the device as desired for a given implementation. The client devices are external to app rating server .

The app rating server may comprise part of an overall communications system or network capable of communicating information between the app rating server and one or more of a game server client devices and or the app store server . In particular the game server may be a centralized server to manage gameplay of an electronic game. The one or more client devices may communicate with the game server to execute particular operations within the electronic game as received and processed by the game server . The app rating server may be integral to the game server in that the app rating server may share processing component with game server .

In various embodiments the client devices may comprise or be implemented as a mobile device having both computing and communications capabilities such as a notebook computer a handheld computer a smart phone a tablet computer a remote control a smart remote control and so forth. The client device may also comprise or be implemented as a fixed device having both computing and communications capabilities such as a desktop computer workstation digital television smart television set top box STB or digital media transceiver audio video AV receiver consumer appliance a game system and so forth.

In one embodiment the client device may operate primarily as an input device generating and sending game performance parameters to the app rating application and the client device may operate primarily as an output device receiving and presenting game instructions from the game server to facilitate gameplay. In one embodiment the client device may operate as both an input device generating and sending game performance parameters to the app rating application and an output device receiving and presenting game instructions strategy information from game server .

An app may be downloaded to the client device from the app store server and or may be downloaded to the game server associated with a particular electronic game. When the app is downloaded to a client device the app assists in or otherwise compliments gameplay of an electronic game by a user. In this case the game performance parameters may be communicated to the app rating server either from the client device via media using signals or from the game server via media using signals . Alternatively the app may assist a user with gameplay of an electronic game run on the client device and game instructions and or results may be sent to game server for execution and or recording. In this case the game performance parameters may also be communicated to the app rating server either from the client device via media using signals or from the game server via media using signals . Regardless of how it receives the game performance parameters app rating server processes the game performance parameters using processing component and sends the app rating indicator to app store server via media using signals in order to provide users with objective quantifiable information about the utility of the app.

The server may be connected to various sources of game performance information . As shown in server may be communicatively connected to one or more game servers . The server may be arranged to collect and receive game performance information from various game servers . The game servers may in turn be communicatively connected to one or more user client devices . The user client devices may include those examples provided for the client device as described with reference to among others.

The server may also generate app rating indicators associated with apps used for particular electronic games. For instance the server may implement the app rating system having the app rating application connected to the datastore storing app rating indicators . Additionally or alternatively the server may communicate with an app server which receives the app rating indicators and app ranking parameters associated with one or more apps. The app server allows a user of client devices to view the app rating indicator and app ranking parameter for apps associated with a particular electronic game.

The server may further be connected to app server which may be communicatively connected to one or more client devices . Examples of client devices may include those examples provided for the client device as described with reference to among others. As shown in the client devices may include a computer a smart phone and a tablet computer . In one embodiment the client devices are the same user client devices that download an app from app server and used to communicate with game servers to play the electronic game.

In operation various users may engage in gameplay of various electronic games using game systems stored on game servers . During gameplay each of the game servers may collect information about the users and the electronic games while being played to form game performance information . The game servers may forward the game performance information to the server . Alternatively the game servers may forward the app performance information directly to the game strategy server . The app rating server may receive the game performance information and generates the app rating indicator . The app rating server may forward the app rating indicator to app server . A user may then use the client devices to view available apps on app server with associated app rating indicators to assist in the selection of one or more apps associated with gameplay of an electronic game.

The graphical app rating indicators . . . N represent the app rating indicators generated by app rating component and sent to app server via communications component shown in . Again the graphical app rating indicators . . . N are associated with app icons . . . N respectively and may be displayed to a user via server . The graphical app rating indicators . . . are shown as shaded bars which provide a user with a quick visual indicator to denote the rating of a particular app. Alternatively the app rating indicators may be represented as numerical ratings N. For example the numerical ratings shown in are based on a total of 10 points where the rating 0 is the lowest and 10 is the highest. Although the graphical app rating indicators . . . N are shown below each of the app icons . . . N it should be understood that different forms of graphical app rating indicators may be used and or placed in various relationships with respect to the app icons . . . N.

The app ranking indicators . . . N represent the app ranking parameters generated by app ranking component and sent to app server via communications component shown in . Again the graphical app ranking indicators . . . N are associated with app icons . . . N respectively and may be displayed to a user via server . The graphical app ranking indicators . . . N may be various types of visual indicia to provide a user with a quick visual indicator to denote the ranking of a particular app as compared to other apps associated with an electronic game. For example the app ranking indicators may simply be numerical representations of the ranking of each app shown on app store GUI . Alternatively the app icons . . . N may be displayed in app ranking parameter order. In particular app icon having app ranking may be the number one ranked app for a particular electronic game among the apps corresponding to app icons . . . N and may be positioned on app store GUI view in the first app icon position. Similarly app icon having app ranking may be the number two ranked app for a particular electronic game among the apps corresponding to app icons . . . N and may be positioned on app store GUI view in the second app icon position. The GUI views and are examples of displaying apps corresponding to an associated app rating indicators and app ranking parameters . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The distributed system may comprise a client device and a server device . In general the client device and the server device may be the same or similar to the client device as described with reference to . For instance the client device and the server system may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the devices may communicate over a communications media using communications signals via the communications components .

The client device may comprise or employ one or more programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the client device may implement an app . The app may comprise a thin client application residing on the client device that is arranged to interoperate with the game system implemented by the server device . The app may provide a GUI and or custom GUI views to allow a user to interface with the game system in order to configure services and user preferences. The app may also provide a particular schema to format render and present game performance information for a particular game to app rating system via media using signals .

The client device may further implement a web browser . A player may use the web browser to access the game system implemented on the server device to configure services and user preferences provided by the game system as well as to play the game system. In one embodiment the client device may communicate with server device using a software architecture designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a media using signals . In particular web browser may implement various web technologies including remote procedure call RPC based technologies simple object access protocol SOAP based technologies service oriented architecture SOA based technologies or representational state transfer REST based technologies among others. Generally SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information to implement web services over a computer network. SOAP relies on extensible markup language XML as a message format. SOAP also relies on other application layer protocols such as RPC and hypertext transfer protocol HTTP for message negotiation and transmission. In this manner client device may be configured to send game performance information to server device for processing by app rating system .

The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement some or all of the app rating system and the communications components may be used to provide game performance information from the client device to the server device . The server device may also implement one or more message applications in game system for delivering game information to corresponding message applications implemented by the client device . Examples of a message application may include without limitation a text message application email message application short message service SMS application multimedia message application MMS chat messages social networking service SNS message application and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.11 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

As shown in the communications architecture comprises includes one or more clients and servers . The clients may implement the client device . The servers may implement the server device . The clients and the servers are operatively connected to one or more respective client data stores and server data stores that can be employed to store information local to the respective clients and servers such as cookies and or associated contextual information.

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators .

The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.11a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

