---

title: Managing network load using device application programs
abstract: Concepts and technologies are described herein for managing network load using device application programs. An illustrative method includes receiving, at a mobile device, a list of preferred combinations of location area codes (“LACs”), cell identifiers (“CIDs”), and times that data access by the mobile device is to be incentivized, determining a current LAC associated with a location area within which the mobile device is currently located, determining a current CID associated with a base transceiver station to which the mobile device is currently connected, determining a current time, and determining if the current LAC, the current cell ID, and the current time are included as a preferred combination in the list. The method also includes providing an indication that data access by the mobile device is incentivized if the current LAC, the current cell ID, and the current time are included in the list as a preferred combination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191853&OS=09191853&RS=09191853
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09191853
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121108
---
The concepts and technologies disclosed herein generally relate to network load management. More specifically the concepts and technologies disclosed herein relate to managing network load using device application programs.

In recent years mobile telecommunications carriers have experienced a dramatic increase in data usage on their networks. This increase in data usage has been caused in part by the increased adoption of smartphones and other devices that utilize data network resources. The emergence of virtual marketplaces that support the distribution of device application programs has also placed a substantial burden on data networks because many of these application programs utilize or even require a data connection to provide some functionality. Subscribers to mobile data service expect to be able to use their data service as they see fit and are not likely to change their data usage behavior to accommodate the needs of a mobile telecommunications carrier with regard to conserving network resources.

Concepts and technologies are described herein for managing network load using device application programs. According to one aspect disclosed herein an illustrative method includes receiving at a mobile device a list of preferred combinations of location area codes LACs cell identifiers CIDs and times that data access by the mobile device is to be incentivized determining a current LAC associated with a location area within which the mobile device is currently located determining a current CID associated with a base transceiver station to which the mobile device is currently connected determining a current time and determining if the current location area code the current cell ID and the current time are included as a preferred combination in the list. The method also includes providing an indication that data access by the mobile device is incentivized if the current location area code the current cell ID and the current time are included in the list as a preferred combination. In some embodiments the method also includes providing an indication that data access by the mobile device is not incentivized if the current LAC the current CID and the current time are not included in the list as a preferred combination. In some embodiments the indication is presented to a user of the mobile device as a visual indication an audio indication a haptic indication or other indication that can be perceived by a user. In some other embodiments the indication is provided to an application program executing on the mobile device so as to notify a user of the mobile device that data access by the application program is incentivized.

According to another aspect disclosed herein an illustrative method includes generating by an application program executing on a mobile device a request for data transfer approval sending the request to a network load application also executing on the mobile device receiving a response from the network load application program indicating whether a data transfer is approved conducting the data transfer if the response indicates that the data transfer is approved and abstaining from conducting the data transfer if the response indicates that the data transfer is not approved. In some embodiments the method also includes determining if data transfer instructions are included in the response and if so conducting the data transfer in accordance with the data transfer instructions. In some embodiments the method also includes receiving a list of preferred combinations of LACs CIDs and times that data access by the mobile device is to be incentivized determining a current LAC associated with a location area within which the mobile device is currently located determining a current CID associated with a base transceiver station to which the mobile device is currently connected determining a current time determining if the current LAC the current CID and the current time are included as a preferred combination in the list and providing the response indicating that the data transfer is approved if the current LAC the current CID and the current time are included as a preferred combination in the list.

According to another aspect disclosed herein an illustrative method includes receiving at a network load computing system network load data generating a list of preferred combinations of LACs CIDs and times that data access by a mobile device is to be incentivized based upon the network load data and sending the list to a server computer configured to provide the list to the mobile device. In some embodiments the method also includes starting an expiration timer monitoring an elapsed time since the expiration timer was started and when the expiration timer expires updating the list based upon new network load data to generate an updated list and sending the updated list to the server computer. In some embodiments the method also includes receiving a request for an updated list from the server computer obtaining new network load data generating the updated list including updated preferred combinations of LACs CIDs and times that data access by the mobile device is to be incentivized and sending the updated list to the server computer. In some embodiments the method also includes sending the list to a billing system for use by the billing system in generating a bill for data access by the mobile device. In some embodiments the method also includes receiving a charging data record from a billing system comparing the charging data record to the preferred combinations contained within the list determining if a match exists between the charging data record and the preferred combinations contained within the list notifying the billing system that a match exists or does not exist and if a match exists providing details of the match to the billing system for use by the billing system in generating a bill for data access by the mobile device.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

While the subject matter described herein may be presented at times in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures computer executable instructions and or other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices mobile devices wireless devices multiprocessor systems distributed computing systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers routers switches and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures example aspects of managing network load using device application programs will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of an illustrative operating environment for various concepts disclosed herein will be described. It should be understood that the operating environment and the various components thereof have been greatly simplified for purposes of discussion. Accordingly additional or alternative components of the operating environment can be made available without departing from illustrative embodiments described herein.

The operating environment shown in includes a mobile communications device mobile device operating on or in communication with a mobile telecommunications network . The mobile device may be a cellular telephone a smartphone a mobile computer a tablet computer or other computing device that is configured with an integrated or external access component that facilitates wireless communication with the mobile telecommunications network . In some embodiments the access component is a cellular telephone that is in wired or wireless communication with a computer to facilitate a tethered data connection to the mobile telecommunications network . In some other embodiments the access component includes a wireless transceiver configured to send data to and receive data from the mobile telecommunications network and a universal serial bus USB or another communication interface for connection to the computer to enable tethering. In any case the mobile device can wirelessly communicate with the mobile telecommunications network over an air interface in accordance with one or more radio access technologies to send and receive data. The mobile device may also initiate receive and or maintain voice calls with one or more other devices not shown . The mobile device may also exchange Short Message Service SMS messages email and or other messages to other devices.

The mobile telecommunications network includes one or more radio access networks RANs . The mobile telecommunications network also includes a wireless wide area network WWAN which may in turn include a circuit switched core network CS CN a packet switched core network PS CN and or an IP multimedia subsystem IMS core network. The WWAN can utilize one or more mobile telecommunications technologies to provide voice and or data services via one or more RANs to a WWAN component not shown of the mobile device . The mobile telecommunications technologies may include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX other 802.XX technologies and or the like. A RAN can utilize various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and or the like to provide an air interface to the mobile device . A RAN may be a GSM RAN GRAN a GSM EDGE RAN GERAN a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN an E UTRAN any combination thereof and or the like. The mobile device can communicate with one or more RANs that utilize the same or different radio access technologies. As such in some embodiments the mobile device is a multi mode communications device.

Data communications can be provided by the mobile telecommunication network using General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and or various other current and future wireless data access standards. The mobile telecommunications network may be configured to provide voice and or data communications with any combination of the above technologies. The mobile telecommunications network may be configured to or adapted to provide voice and or data communications in accordance with future generation technologies.

The mobile telecommunications network provides a mobile data service to the mobile device within a service area that includes one or more location areas each of which includes one or more cell sites. In the illustrated example the mobile telecommunication network includes a location area that includes a plurality of cells A N hereinafter referred to collectively or generically as cells . Each of the cells includes one or more base transceiver stations BTSs . The BTSs are part of a RAN and provide an air interface between the mobile telecommunications network and the mobile device . The term base transceiver station is used herein to broadly encompass any equipment that provides an air interface between the mobile telecommunications network and the mobile device . A BTS therefore may include but is not limited to including a BTS as utilized in GSM networks a Node B as utilized in UMTS networks or an eNodeB as utilized in LTE networks.

The location area is associated with a Location Area Identity LAI . An LAI includes a Mobile Country Code MCC a Mobile Network Code MNC and a Location Area Code LAC . The MCC is used to uniquely identify a country. The MNC is used to uniquely identify a mobile telecommunications network such as the mobile telecommunications network . The LAC is used to uniquely identify a location area within a mobile telecommunications network such as the location area within the mobile telecommunications network . Each of the cells is associated with a unique cell identifier CID .

As will be described in greater detail below LAC CID and time are used in combination to identify locations at which and times during which data transfer to and or from the mobile device is preferred by a mobile telecommunications carrier that owns and or operates the mobile telecommunications network . Combinations of LAC CID and time that data transfer is preferred are sometimes referred to herein collectively as preferred data transfer criteria.

The illustrated mobile telecommunications network is in communication with a network load computing system . The network load computing system receives network load data data from the mobile telecommunications network and utilizes the data to generate a list of preferred combinations of LACs CIDs and times list that data access by the mobile device is preferred.

In some embodiments the data includes historic network load data. Historic network load data is used herein to describe data obtained by the network load computing system based upon network load experienced by the mobile telecommunications network in the past or otherwise in non real time. In some other embodiments the data includes current network load data. Current network load data is used herein to describe network load data that is obtained by the network load computing system based upon a network load experienced by the mobile telecommunications network in real time or near real time. Real time in this context is the actual time during which a network load is experienced by the mobile telecommunications network . Near real time in this context is the actual time during which a network load is experienced by the mobile telecommunications network plus a delay on the order of microseconds or milliseconds. What constitutes near real time network load data versus historic network load data can be defined by the owner and or operator of the network load computing system the mobile telecommunications network and or another entity. It should be understood that real time network load data associated with a real time network load of the mobile telecommunications network and near real time network load data associated with a near real time network load of the mobile telecommunications network might be received by network load computing system with delay caused by latency and or other network phenomena.

The network load computing system in some embodiments requests the data from the mobile telecommunications network and more particularly one or more network elements operating within the mobile telecommunications network . As such the network load computing system can be in a pull configuration with one or more network elements of the mobile telecommunications network . In some other embodiments the network load computing system receives the data pushed by one or more network elements of the mobile telecommunications network . Although the network load computing system is illustrated as being external to the mobile telecommunications network the network load computing system can operate within the mobile telecommunications network .

In some embodiments the network load computing system analyzes the data to determine the network load experienced by the mobile telecommunications network on a per cell basis for each of the cells and the time s if ever at which the network load at each of the cells is in a preferred state. A preferred state in some embodiments is a state in which a cell or other portion of the mobile telecommunications network experiences a network load below a network load threshold which can be defined by the owner and or operator of the mobile telecommunications network or some other entity. The network load computing system can generate the list including a LAC and CID associated with one or more of the cells and one or more times during which each of these cells experiences a network load below a network load threshold. The network load computing system can identify such LAC CID time combinations as preferred combinations that data access by the mobile device is preferred.

The list can include preferred combinations of LACs CIDs and times that data access by mobile devices including the mobile device is preferred. In some embodiments the list includes preferred combinations of LACs CIDs and times that data access by all devices operating on the mobile telecommunications network is preferred. These devices may include devices that are roaming on the mobile telecommunications network . The list alternatively may be particular to the mobile device or to a set of mobile devices for example that share a class of service.

The illustrated network load computing system is in communication with an application program interface API server computer . The API server computer provides one or more APIs that can be utilized by one or more application programs executing on the mobile device to obtain the list for managing data transfers to and or from the mobile device and thereby conserving data resources of the mobile telecommunications network in specific locations and during specific times while incentivizing the use of data resources of the mobile telecommunications network in specific locations and during specific times. In the illustrated example the API server computer provides the list to the mobile device in response to a request received from the mobile device . The API server computer alternatively may push the list to the mobile device .

In some embodiments a mobile telecommunications carrier incentivizes the use of data resources provided by the mobile telecommunications network by applying a monetary bill credit to a subscriber s bill. In some other embodiments a mobile telecommunications carrier incentivizes the use of data resources provided by the mobile telecommunications network by applying a data block credit to a subscriber s bill. A data block may be in units of bytes kilobytes megabytes gigabytes or any other unit of data.

The illustrated mobile device is configured to execute an operating system a network load application program and a certified application program . The operating system is a program for controlling the operation of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the operating system may be SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS mobile OS from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. WINDOWS phone OS from Microsoft Corporation PALM WEBOS from Hewlett Packard Company of Palo Alto Calif. BLACKBERRY OS from Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada IOS from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. or ANDROID OS from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Although a single operating system is shown multiple operating systems are contemplated. Other operating systems are contemplated.

The network load application program executes on top of the operating system . The network load application program provides functionality to the mobile device to receive the list determine a current LAC associated with a location area such as the LA within which the mobile device is currently located determine a current CID associated with a BTS to which the mobile device is currently connected and determine a current time. The network load application program compares the current LAC the current CID and the current time to the list to determine if the current LAC the current CID and the current time are included in the list as a preferred combination. If so the network load application program can cause the mobile device to provide an indication that data access by the mobile device is incentivized. If not the network load application program can cause the mobile device to provide an indication that data access by the mobile device is not incentivized.

An indication that data access is or is not incentivized can include a visual indication. In some embodiments the visual indication is presented on a display of the mobile device . The visual indication can include a letter a number a character a symbol a text string a static image an animated image a movie and or any other visual content that can be used to convey to a user of the mobile device that data access is or is not incentivized. Custom visual indications generated by or for a user of the mobile device are also contemplated. A visual indication can be presented on the display of the mobile device via various mechanisms including but not limited to a toast notification or other notification an email and a text message. In some other embodiments the visual indication is presented via an indicator light such as a light emitting diode LED of the mobile device .

An indication that data access is or is not incentivized can include an audio indication. In some embodiments the audio indication is presented via a speaker of the mobile device including a built in speaker and or a speaker attached to the mobile device for example through a headphone jack. The audio indication can include any sound.

An indication that data access is or is not incentivized can include a haptic indication. In some embodiments the haptic indication is provided via a vibration mechanism of the mobile device .

The aforementioned indications rely on the capability of a user of the mobile device to perceive an indication via their sense of sight hearing or touch. It should be understood however that an indication that data access is or is not incentivized can include an indication that is capable of perception by a user of the mobile device through any sensory system of the user including but not limited to sight hearing taste smell touch balance acceleration temperature kinesthetic pain any sense that is normally stimulated from within the body of the user or any combination thereof.

An indication that data access is or is not incentivized can be provided by the network load application program for any data access by the mobile device . For example the indication can serve as a notification to a user of the mobile device that using the mobile device to surf the web check email or play an online game is equally incentivized.

An indication that data access is or is not incentivized can be provided by the network load application program to the certified application program so as to notify a user of the mobile device that data access by the certified application program is incentivized or not.

The certified application program executes on top of the operating system . The certified application program is any application program that receives data from and or sends data to the mobile telecommunications network and that has been certified through a certification process to certify that the application program can utilize the network load application program to determine when data access is incentivized and when data access is not incentivized.

The illustrated mobile telecommunications network is also in communication with a billing system . The billing system is a computerized system that executes billing processes in a billing cycle to prepare billing statements for subscribers of data and other services provided via the mobile telecommunications network .

The illustrated mobile telecommunications network is in communication with an internet such as the Internet. The mobile device can access the internet via the mobile telecommunications network as in the illustrated embodiment. The illustrated internet is in communication with an application marketplace system and an application certification system .

The application marketplace system hosts a virtual marketplace through which a user can browse search download and or purchase application programs. In the illustrated example the application marketplace system provides a plurality of certified applications A N and a plurality of non certified applications A N. A user can access the application marketplace system via the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device accesses the application marketplace system via a marketplace application not shown that is installed on the mobile device . In some other embodiments the mobile device accesses the application marketplace system via a web browser configured to access one or more uniform resource locators URLs associated with the application marketplace system .

The application certification system provides an application certification process through which application programs can be certified based upon compliance with certification criteria established by or for a mobile telecommunications carrier that owns and or operates the mobile telecommunications network . In some embodiments the application certification process includes testing a certification candidate application program for interoperability with the network load application program to access the list to determine when data access is incentivized and when data access is not incentivized. In some embodiments the application certification process includes testing a certification candidate application program to obtain data usage characteristics and comparing the data usage characteristics to data usage limits to which the certification candidate application program must adhere to be certified. In some embodiments the application certification process includes testing a certification candidate application program to determine whether the certification candidate application program has an upload and download setting that when enabled causes the certification candidate application program to enter a data conservation mode that limits data usage by the certification candidate application program. In some embodiments the application certification process includes testing a certification candidate application program to determine whether the certification candidate application program has a default value set to a data conservation mode that limits data usage by the certification candidate application program. In some embodiments the application certification process includes testing a certification candidate application program to determine whether the certification application program strictly complies with a requirement to limit data usage to the preferred combinations of LAC CID and times set forth in the list . An illustrative application certification process is described herein below with respect to .

In some embodiments the application certification system provides an application certification process through which an application program can be certified after the application program has been approved through an approval process provided for example by an owner and or operator of the application marketplace system . In this manner a certification candidate application program can be provided to the application marketplace system even upon failure to comply with the certification requirements of the application certification process provided by the application certification system .

The application marketplace system can provide a section dedicated to certified application programs. In some embodiments an application program is identified with a certification distinction such as a letter number symbol graphic text or other visual distinction to signify to users that the application program has been certified.

It should be understood that some implementations of the operating environment include multiple mobile devices multiple mobile telecommunications networks multiple network load computing systems multiple API server computers multiple operating systems multiple network load application programs multiple certified application programs multiple billing systems multiple internets multiple application marketplace systems and or multiple application certification systems . Thus the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for incentivizing data transfer in accordance with preferred data transfer criteria will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the illustrative methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be combined separated added omitted modified and or performed simultaneously or in another order without departing from the scope of the subject disclosure.

It also should be understood that the illustrated methods can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer executable instructions included on a computer readable storage media as defined below. The term computer executable instructions and variants thereof as used in the description and claims is used expansively herein to include routines application programs software application modules program modules components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer executable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems distributed computing systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein cause a processor to perform operations includes causing a processor of a computing system such as the mobile device the network load computing system the API server computer the billing system or the application certification system to perform one or more operations of the operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system to perform one or more of the operations.

The method is described as being performed by the mobile device shown in executing the network load application program . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device receives a list of LAC cell ID and time combinations such as the list from the API server computer . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device determines a current LAC a current CID and a current time.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device determines if the current LAC the current CID and the current time are included in the list. If the mobile device determines the current LAC the current CID and the current time are included in the list the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device determines the list is up to date. If the mobile device determines the current LAC the current CID and the current time are not included in the list the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device determines the list is out of date and in response generates a request for an updated list and sends the request to the API server computer at operation . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device receives an updated list of LAC CID and time combinations from the API server computer .

From operation or from operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device determines if the current LAC CID and time combination is identified in the list as a preferred LAC CID time combination. If the mobile device determines the current LAC CID and time combination is identified in the list as a preferred LAC CID time combination the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device provides an indication that data access is incentivized. The indication may be any indication or combination of indications described herein above. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the method may end. If at operation the mobile device determines the current LAC CID and time combination is not identified in the list as a preferred LAC CID time combination the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile device provides an indication that data access is not incentivized. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for providing preferred data transfer criteria to an API server computer will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the network load computing system shown in . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system receives historic and current network load data. In some embodiments the network load computing system alternatively receives historic or current network load data. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system generates preferred LAC CID time combinations based upon the network load data. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system generates a list of the preferred LAC CID time combinations. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system sends the list to the API server computer .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system starts an expiration timer. At operation the network load computing system monitors the elapsed time since the list expiration timer was started. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system determines if the expiration timer has expired. If the network load computing system determines the expiration timer has expired the method returns to operation wherein the elapsed time since the expiration timer was started continues to be monitored. If the network load computing system determines the expiration timer has not expired the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system updates the list based upon updated network load data. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system sends the updated list to the API server computer after which the method returns to operation wherein a new expiration timer is started. By executing the operations of the method the network load computing system can provide up to date LAC CID time combinations to the API server computer which can then provide the combinations to the mobile device for determining whether to provide an indication that data access is incentivized.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for generating preferred data transfer criteria will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the network load computing system . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system receives a request for an updated list from the API server computer . In response at operation the network load computing system obtains historic and current network load data. In some embodiments the network load computing system alternatively obtains historic or current network load data. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system generates preferred LAC CID time combinations based upon the network load data. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system generates a list of the preferred LAC CID time combinations. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system sends the list to the API server computer . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

In some embodiments the network load computing system executes the operations of the method simultaneously with the operations of the method described herein above with reference to . In this manner the network load computing system can provide up to date LAC CID time combinations to the API server computer proactively through the timer based method and responsively to requests from the API sever computer to ensure the most up to date list of preferred LAC CID time combinations is available to the mobile device .

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for providing updated preferred data transfer criteria to a mobile device will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the API server computer . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the API server computer receives a request for an updated list from the mobile device . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the API server computer forwards the request for the updated list to the network load computing system . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the API server computer receives the updated list from the network load computing system and sends the updated list to the mobile device at operation . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for generating a bill for wireless data service will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the billing system . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the billing system receives a list of preferred LAC CID time combinations from the network load computing system . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system compares a charging data record to the list of preferred LAC CID time combinations. As used herein a charging data record is a formatted collection of information about a chargeable event for use by the billing system to prepare a bill. The collection of information included for each chargeable event in a charging data record can include an indication of the LAC and CID associated with a BTS to which the mobile device was connected during a data transfer event and an indication of a time during which the data transfer event took place. The comparison at operation can include comparing chargeable events associated with data transferred to the mobile device over the mobile telecommunications network and or data transferred from the mobile device over the mobile telecommunications network to the preferred LAC CID time combinations included in the list.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system determines if a match exists based upon the comparison. If the billing system determines that a match exists the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system generates a bill based upon the charging data record and an incentive associated with the match. As explained above the incentive can be applied as a bill credit or a data block credit. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end. If however the billing system determines that a match does not exist the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system generates a bill based upon the charging data record. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for comparing charging data records to preferred data transfer criteria will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the network load computing system . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system receives a charging data record from the billing system . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system compares the charging data record to a list of preferred LAC CID time combinations. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system determines if a match exists based upon the comparison. If the network load computing system determines a match exists the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system notifies the billing system that a match exists. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end. If however the network load computing system determines a match does not exist the method proceeds to operation wherein the network load computing system notifies the billing system that no match exists. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for generating a bill for wireless data service will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the billing system . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the billing system generates a charging data record. The billing system sends the charging data record to the network load computing system at operation . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system receives a notification from the network load computing system . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system generates a bill based upon the charging data record and an incentive associated with the match. As explained above the incentive can be applied as a bill credit or a data block credit. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end. If however the network load computing system determines a match does not exist the method proceeds to operation wherein the billing system generates a bill based upon the charging data record. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for certifying application programs will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the application certification system . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the application certification system receives an application program from an application developer. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the application certification system tests the application for compliance with certification criteria. In some embodiments the operation includes testing the application program for interoperability with the network load application program to access the list to determine when data access is incentivized and when data access is not incentivized. In some embodiments the operation includes testing the application program to obtain data usage characteristics and comparing the data usage characteristics to data usage limits to which the application program must adhere to be certified. In some embodiments the operation includes testing the application program to determine whether the application program has an upload and download setting that when enabled causes the application program to enter a data conservation mode that limits data usage by the application program. In some embodiments the operation includes testing the application program to determine whether the application program has a default value set to a data conservation mode that limits data usage by the application program. In some embodiments the operation includes testing the application program to determine whether the application program complies with a requirement to limit data usage to the preferred combinations of LAC CID and times set forth in the list.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the application certification system determines if the application program complies with the certification criteria. If the application certification system determines the application complies with the certification criteria the method proceeds to operation wherein the application certification system adds a certification distinction to the application. In some embodiments the certification distinction is used as a marketing tool to identify the application program as being certified within the application marketplace system . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the application certification system sends the application program to an approval process such as an approval process performed by an owner and or operator of the application marketplace system . If however the application certification system determines the application program does not comply with the certification criteria the method proceeds directly to operation . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method for conducting a data transfer or abstaining from conducting a data transfer based upon network load will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by the certified application program executing on the mobile device . The method begins and proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program generates a request directed to the network load application program for data transfer approval. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program sends the request to the network load application program .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program receives a response from the network load application program . The response indicates whether or not data transfer is approved. At operation the certified application program determines if data transfer is approved. If the certified application program determines that data transfer is approved the method proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program determines if data transfer instructions were received in the response. If data transfer instructions were received in the response then the method proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program conducts the data transfer in accordance with the data transfer instructions. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the method may end. If however data transfer instructions were not received in the response then the method proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program conducts the data transfer. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

If at operation the certified application program determines that data transfer is not approved the method proceeds to operation wherein the certified application program abstains from conducting the data transfer. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the method may end.

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the computer system . Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The illustrated memory includes an operating system and one or more application programs .

The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE WINDOWS MOBILE and or WINDOWS PHONE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS and or iOS families of operating systems from APPLE INC. the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems such as proprietary operating systems and the like. The application programs can include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing unit cause the computer system to perform operations such as those described herein above with reference to methods set forth in .

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants telephones e.g. cellular IP or landline or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules. In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as one or more of the networks illustrated and described with reference to and or other network s . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a WLAN such as a WI FI network a WWAN a wireless personal area network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH or a wireless metropolitan area network WMAN . Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired personal area network PAN or a wired metropolitan area network MAN .

The network embodied as a cellular network may utilize a mobile telecommunications technology such as but not limited to GSM UMTS CDMA ONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation mobile telecommunications technologies. In addition mobile data communications technologies such as GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future mobile data communications technologies are contemplated for use by the network . Therefore the embodiments presented herein should not be construed as being limited to a particular mobile telecommunications technology and or standards utilizing such technologies.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments the mobile device is configured like the mobile device . It should be understood however that the mobile device may include additional functionality or include less functionality than now described. Although connections are not shown between the components illustrated in the components can interact with each other to carry out device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented.

As illustrated in the mobile device includes a display for displaying data including but not limited to graphical user interface GUI elements text images video virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and or the like. The mobile device also includes a processor for processing data and or executing computer executable instructions of one or more applications such as the application program stored in a memory . In some embodiments the applications include a UI application . The UI application interfaces with an operating system OS application such as the operating system to facilitate user interaction with device functionality and data. In some embodiments the OS application is one of SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS MOBILE OS from MICROSOFT CORPORATION WINDOWS PHONE OS from MICROSOFT CORPORATION PALM WEBOS from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION BLACKBERRY OS from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED IOS from APPLE INC. and ANDROID OS from GOOGLE INC. These operating systems are merely illustrative of the operating systems that may be used in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein.

The UI application aids a user in entering message content viewing received messages answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the OS application and the other applications .

In some embodiments the other applications include for example certified application programs non certified application programs the network load application program presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications or portions thereof are stored in the memory and or in a firmware and are executed by the processor . The firmware may also store code for execution during device power up and power down operations.

The mobile device also includes an input output I O interface for the input output of data such as location information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface is a hardwire connection such as a universal serial bus USB mini USB micro USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ45 port RJ11 port proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device is configured to synchronize with another device e.g. a computer to transfer content stored to from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device is configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface . In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device instead of or in addition to a communications component .

The communications component interfaces with the processor to facilitate wireless communications with one or more networks such as those illustrated in . In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers each configured to communicate over the same or a different wireless technology standard. For example the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMAONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA W CDMA OFDM SDMA and the like. In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards.

In the illustrated embodiment the communications component includes a first cellular transceiver that operates in one mode e.g. GSM and an Ncellular transceiver operates in a different mode e.g. UMTS . While only two cellular transceivers are illustrated it should be appreciated that more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The illustrated communications component also includes an alternative communications transceiver for use by other communications technologies including WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC other RF combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also facilitates reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like.

The communications component processes data from a network such as an internet an intranet a home broadband network a WI FI hotspot and the like via an internet service provider ISP digital subscriber line DSL provider or broadband provider.

Audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component that includes a speaker for the output of audio signals and a microphone to collect audio signals.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a USIM system that includes a SIM slot interface for accommodating a USIM card. In some embodiments the USIM system is configured to accept insertion of other SIM cards for access to other network types such as GSM. In other embodiments the USIM system is configured to accept multiple SIM cards. In still other embodiments the USIM system is configured to accept a universal integrated circuit card UICC with one or more SIM applications stored thereupon.

The illustrated mobile device also includes an image capture and processing system image system . Photos may be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The mobile device may also include a video system for capturing processing recording and or modifying video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message and sent to another mobile device.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a location component for sending and or receiving signals such as GPS data assisted GPS data WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like for determining a location of the mobile device . The location component may communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component interfaces with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component includes one or more sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its location or transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also includes a power source such as one or more batteries and or other power subsystem AC or DC . The power source may interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

As used herein communication media includes computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the mobile device or other devices or computers described herein such as the computer system described above with reference to . For purposes of the claims the phrase computer readable storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves signals and or other transitory and or intangible communication media per se.

Encoding the software modules presented herein also may transform the physical structure of the computer readable media presented herein. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable media whether the computer readable media is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software disclosed herein may be encoded on the computer readable media by transforming the physical state of the semiconductor memory. For example the software may transform the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. The software also may transform the physical state of such components in order to store data thereupon.

As another example the computer readable media disclosed herein may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software presented herein may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations also may include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

In light of the above it should be appreciated that many types of physical transformations take place in the mobile device in order to store and execute the software components presented herein. It is also contemplated that the mobile device may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies for managing network load using device application programs have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the subject disclosure.

