---

title: System for isolation testing of RF transmitters and receivers
abstract: A programmable device generates a test signal indicative of a RF signal and receives a processed test signal indicative of the test signal after processing thereof by one of a RF transmission system and a RF receiving system. The programmable device performs a comparison between the processed test signal and calibration data, and generates a report based on the comparison. A hardwire signal router provides the test signal to one of the RF transmission system and the RF receiving system, and provides the processed test signal to the programmable device. The router includes a first switching mechanism and a second switching mechanism operating in a coordinated fashion to define one of a first state for testing the RF transmission system and a second state for testing the RF receiving system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843126&OS=08843126&RS=08843126
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08843126
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120803
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to the testing of transmitters and receivers and more particularly to a system that can perform isolation testing of a radio frequency RF transmitter or an RF receiver.

Currently the testing and diagnosing of a faulty radio frequency RF transmission and receiving systems requires that the system be taken out of the field to a lab testing location. This is a time consuming process. Further if a problem exists in a network of RF transmission receiving systems repair technicians are forced to guess at which system should be pulled out of the network for testing.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a system for testing an RF transmission and receiving system.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system that can be used for field testing of an RF transmission and receiving system.

Still another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a system that can be used to field test the transmission portion or receiving portion of an RF transmission and receiving system.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become more obvious hereinafter in the specification and drawings.

In accordance with the present invention a system for performing isolation testing of radio frequency RF transmission and receiving systems includes a programmable device that generates a test signal indicative of a RF signal and receives a processed test signal indicative of the test signal after processing thereof by one of a RF transmission system and a RF receiving system. The programmable device performs a comparison between the processed test signal and calibration data and generates a report based on the comparison. A hardwire signal router provides the test signal to one of the RF transmission system and the RF receiving system and provides the processed test signal to the programmable device. The router includes a first switching mechanism and a second switching mechanism operating in a coordinated fashion to define one of a first state and a second state. The first state is defined when i the first switching mechanism directs the test signal to an input of the RF transmission system wherein the RF transmission system generates the processed test signal and ii the second switching mechanism directs the processed test signal so generated by the RF transmission system to the programmable device. The second state is defined when i the second switching mechanism directs the test signal to an input of the RF receiving system wherein the RF receiving system generates the processed test signal and ii the first switching mechanism directs the processed test signal so generated by the RF receiving system to the programmable device.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to a block diagram of a prior art RF transmission and receiving system is shown and is referenced generally by numeral . A transmission signal source provides transmission data to a transmission system that formats the transmission data for transmission as an RF signal by an antenna . On the receiving side of system an antenna receives an RF signal and couples same to a receiving system that formats RF signal for presentation to a user by a received signal presentation module e.g. display audio reproduction and or hard copy presentation etc. .

Referring now to the above described RF transmission and receiving system is illustrated with the present invention s system for performing isolation testing of either transmission system or receiving system . Briefly the present invention includes a programmable device hard wired to system where such hardwiring includes switching mechanisms and operable to issue test signals to and received processed test signals from one of transmission and receiving system .

Programmable device includes a processor A memory B a port C for injecting signals indicative of either RF transmission data for transmission system or an RF signal for receiving system and a port D for receiving signals indicative of either formatted transmission data from transmission system or presentation of formatted received data from receiving system . In general processor A sweeps one or more user selected waveforms through a selected frequency range based on application requirements. The testing sequence can be pre programmed into memory B.

Switching mechanisms and are set to isolate signal routing through either transmission system or receiving system . More specifically switches A B and A are operated to couple transmission system to ports C and D when performing isolated testing of transmission system . In a similar fashion switches B B and C are operated to couple receiving system to ports C and D when performing isolated testing of receiving system .

In either of the above described testing scenarios states the signals data received at port D can be compared by processor A to calibration data stored in memory B. The results of the comparisons can be in the form of a report e.g. simple pass fail report graphical data reports etc. that can be displayed in real time via a display and or stored in memory B.

Programmable device can be based on a software defined radio SDR configured to operate as described herein. By way of example one such software defined radio is the open source GNU radio platform utilizing the Universal Software Radio Peripheral.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Isolation testing of RF transmission and receiving systems can be performed in the field with a low cost device. Tests can be pre programmed such that a technician can readily determine if a transmission or receiving system is faulty. The invention will be particularly useful when trouble shooting RF transmission and receiving systems in the field.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

