---

title: Portable articulated arm coordinate measuring machine having integrated software controls
abstract: A method for performing a diagnostic or calibration procedure on a portable articulated arm coordinate measurement machine (AACMM). The AACMM includes a manually positionable articulated arm portion having opposed first and second ends, the arm portion including a plurality of connected arm segments, each of the arm segments including at least one position transducer for producing position signals. The AACMM also includes an electronic circuit having a self-contained operating environment that includes a user interface application and a display device in communication with the user interface application. In addition, a measurement device is attached to the first end of the AACMM. The user interface application and display device are configured to facilitate performing and displaying results of a diagnostic or calibration procedure on the AACMM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615893&OS=08615893&RS=08615893
owner: Faro Technologies, Inc.
number: 08615893
owner_city: Lake Mary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120221
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 006 484 filed Jan. 14 2011 which in turn claims the benefit of provisional application No. 61 296 555 filed Jan. 20 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. The present application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 006 503 filed Jan. 14 2011 which in turn claims the benefit of provisional application No. 61 296 555 filed on Jan. 20 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. The present application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 006 455 filed Jan. 14 2011 which in turn claims the benefit of provisional application No. 61 296 555 filed on Jan. 20 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates to a coordinate measuring machine and more particularly to a portable articulated arm coordinate measuring machine having integrated software controls.

Portable articulated arm coordinate measuring machines AACMMs have found widespread use in the manufacturing or production of parts where there is a need to rapidly and accurately verify the dimensions of the part during various stages of the manufacturing or production e.g. machining of the part. Portable AACMMs represent a vast improvement over known stationary or fixed cost intensive and relatively difficult to use measurement installations particularly in the amount of time it takes to perform dimensional measurements of relatively complex parts. Typically a user of a portable AACMM simply guides a probe along the surface of the part or object to be measured. The measurement data are then recorded and provided to the user. In some cases the data are provided to the user in visual form for example three dimensional 3 D form on a computer screen. In other cases the data are provided to the user in numeric form for example when measuring the diameter of a hole the text Diameter 1.0034 is displayed on a computer screen.

An example of a prior art portable articulated arm CMM is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 402 582 582 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The 582 patent discloses a 3 D measuring system comprised of a manually operated articulated arm CMM having a support base on one end and a measurement probe at the other end. Commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 611 147 147 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses a similar articulated arm CMM. In the 147 patent the articulated arm CMM includes a number of features including an additional rotational axis at the probe end thereby providing for an arm with either a two two two or a two two three axis configuration the latter case being a seven axis arm .

Contemporary portable AACMMs require a connection to an external computer such as a laptop to calculate positional data from the raw measurement data collected by the AACMM. In addition the external computer also provides a user interface application to allow the operator to give instructions to the AACMM. Thus an AACMM is required to have a driver that supports communication with a variety of operating systems and operating system levels . In addition troubleshooting is often difficult because other applications including those not related to portable AACMM functions may also be executing on the external computer and impacting portable AACMM functions. Though current AACMMs are suitable for their intended purpose it would be desirable to reduce the amount of variability introduced by the use of an external computer in conjunction with the portable AACMM to perform measurement functions.

An embodiment is a method for performing a diagnostic or calibration procedure on an articulated arm coordinate measurement machine AACMM . The method includes providing the AACMM. The AACMM has a manually positionable articulated arm portion having opposed first and second ends and the arm portion includes a plurality of connected arm segments. Each of the arm segments includes at least one position transducer for producing position signals. A measurement device attached to the first end of the AACMM is provided. In addition an electronic circuit in the AACMM is provided. The electronic circuit includes a processor and is configured to receive the position signals from the transducers and to provide data corresponding to a position of the measurement device. The electronic circuit has a self contained operating environment for the AACMM that includes a user interface application. A display device attached to the AACMM is also provided. The display device and the electronic circuit are integral parts of the AACMM and the display device is in communication with the user interface application. A plurality of choices is displayed on the display device with at least one of the choices being to perform a diagnostic or calibration procedure for the AACMM. One of the diagnostic or calibration procedures is selected based on input from an operator. Information for performing the procedure is displayed on the display device. Based on input from the operator the selected diagnostic or calibration procedure is performed and the results are displayed on the display device.

An articulated arm coordinate measuring machine AACMM having a self contained operating environment is provided in accordance with exemplary embodiments. As used herein the term self contained operating environment refers to the AACMM being portable with all of the elements required to perform measurement located on the portable AACMM e.g. within a housing of the AACMM . This is contrasted with an AACMM that requires a laptop or other processing device to perform some functions e.g. calculating positional data from raw measurement data . The self contained AACMM may be powered by a battery and or plugged in to a power source e.g. 120 VAC . In an embodiment the self contained AACMM operates in a kiosk mode where the software on the AACMM is designed to perform a set of supported functions that are presented to the operator in a user interface screen when the AACMM is powered on. The kiosk mode provides a dedicated and controlled environment where the operator does not need to be concerned with the operating environment e.g. operating system software versions etc. of the AACMM. Further the operator does not need to be concerned with the nuances of bringing up an operating system and loading particular software. In an embodiment a user interface screen is presented to the operator when the AACMM is powered on to guide the operator through using the functions provided by the AACMM.

Each bearing cartridge within each bearing cartridge grouping typically contains an encoder system e.g. an optical encoder system . The encoder system i.e. transducer provides an indication of the position of the respective arm segments and corresponding bearing cartridge groupings that all together provide an indication of the position of the probe with respect to the base and thus the position of the object being measured by the AACMM in a certain frame of reference for example a local or global frame of reference . The arm segments may be made from a suitably rigid material such as but not limited to a carbon composite material for example. A portable AACMM with six or seven axes of articulated movement i.e. degrees of freedom provides advantages in allowing the operator to position the probe in a desired location within a 360 area about the base while providing an arm portion that may be easily handled by the operator. However it should be appreciated that the illustration of an arm portion having two arm segments is for exemplary purposes and the claimed invention should not be so limited. An AACMM may have any number of arm segments coupled together by bearing cartridges and thus more or less than six or seven axes of articulated movement or degrees of freedom .

The probe is detachably mounted to the measurement probe housing which is connected to bearing cartridge grouping . A handle is removable with respect to the measurement probe housing by way of for example a quick connect interface. The handle may be replaced with another device e.g. a laser line probe a bar code reader thereby providing advantages in allowing the operator to use different measurement devices with the same AACMM . In exemplary embodiments the probe housing houses a removable probe which is a contacting measurement device and may have different tips that physically contact the object to be measured including but not limited to ball touch sensitive curved and extension type probes. In other embodiments the measurement is performed for example by a non contacting device such as a laser line probe LLP . In an embodiment the handle is replaced with the LLP using the quick connect interface. Other types of measurement devices may replace the removable handle to provide additional functionality. Examples of such measurement devices include but are not limited to one or more illumination lights a temperature sensor a thermal scanner a bar code scanner a projector a paint sprayer a camera or the like.

As shown in the AACMM includes the removable handle that provides advantages in allowing accessories or functionality to be changed without removing the measurement probe housing from the bearing cartridge grouping . As discussed in more detail below with respect to the removable handle may also include an electrical connector that allows electrical power and data to be exchanged with the handle and the corresponding electronics located in the probe end.

In various embodiments each grouping of bearing cartridges allows the arm portion of the AACMM to move about multiple axes of rotation. As mentioned each bearing cartridge grouping includes corresponding encoder systems such as optical angular encoders for example that are each arranged coaxially with the corresponding axis of rotation of e.g. the arm segments . The optical encoder system detects rotational swivel or transverse hinge movement of e.g. each one of the arm segments about the corresponding axis and transmits a signal to an electronic data processing system within the AACMM as described in more detail herein below. Each individual raw encoder count is sent separately to the electronic data processing system as a signal where it is further processed into measurement data. No position calculator separate from the AACMM itself e.g. a serial box is required as disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 402 582 582 .

The base may include an attachment device or mounting device . The mounting device allows the AACMM to be removably mounted to a desired location such as an inspection table a machining center a wall or the floor for example. In one embodiment the base includes a handle portion that provides a convenient location for the operator to hold the base as the AACMM is being moved. In one embodiment the base further includes a movable cover portion that folds down to reveal a user interface such as a display screen.

In accordance with an embodiment the base of the portable AACMM contains or houses an electronic data processing system that includes two primary components a base processing system that processes the data from the various encoder systems within the AACMM as well as data representing other arm parameters to support three dimensional 3 D positional calculations and a user interface processing system that includes an on board operating system a touch screen display and resident application software that allows for relatively complete metrology functions to be implemented within the AACMM without the need for connection to an external computer.

The electronic data processing system in the base may communicate with the encoder systems sensors and other peripheral hardware located away from the base e.g. a LLP that can be mounted to the removable handle on the AACMM . The electronics that support these peripheral hardware devices or features may be located in each of the bearing cartridge groupings located within the portable AACMM .

As shown in the electronic data processing system is in communication with the aforementioned plurality of encoder systems via one or more arm buses . In the embodiment depicted in each encoder system generates encoder data and includes an encoder arm bus interface an encoder digital signal processor DSP an encoder read head interface and a temperature sensor . Other devices such as strain sensors may be attached to the arm bus .

Also shown in are probe end electronics that are in communication with the arm bus . The probe end electronics include a probe end DSP a temperature sensor a handle LLP interface bus that connects with the handle or the LLP via the quick connect interface in an embodiment and a probe interface . The quick connect interface allows access by the handle to the data bus control lines and power bus used by the LLP and other accessories. In an embodiment the probe end electronics are located in the measurement probe housing on the AACMM . In an embodiment the handle may be removed from the quick connect interface and measurement may be performed by the laser line probe LLP communicating with the probe end electronics of the AACMM via the handle LLP interface bus . In an embodiment the electronic data processing system is located in the base of the AACMM the probe end electronics are located in the measurement probe housing of the AACMM and the encoder systems are located in the bearing cartridge groupings . The probe interface may connect with the probe end DSP by any suitable communications protocol including commercially available products from Maxim Integrated Products Inc. that embody the 1 wire communications protocol .

In an embodiment shown in the base processor board includes the various functional blocks illustrated therein. For example a base processor function is utilized to support the collection of measurement data from the AACMM and receives raw arm data e.g. encoder system data via the arm bus and a bus control module function . The memory function stores programs and static arm configuration data. The base processor board also includes an external hardware option port function for communicating with any external hardware devices or accessories such as an LLP . A real time clock RTC and log a battery pack interface IF and a diagnostic port are also included in the functionality in an embodiment of the base processor board depicted in .

The base processor board also manages all the wired and wireless data communication with external host computer and internal display processor devices. The base processor board has the capability of communicating with an Ethernet network via an Ethernet function e.g. using a clock synchronization standard such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1588 with a wireless local area network WLAN via a LAN function and with Bluetooth module via a parallel to serial communications PSC function . The base processor board also includes a connection to a universal serial bus USB device .

The base processor board transmits and collects raw measurement data e.g. encoder system counts temperature readings for processing into measurement data without the need for any preprocessing such as disclosed in the serial box of the aforementioned 582 patent. The base processor board sends the processed data to the display processor on the user interface board via an RS485 interface IF . In an embodiment the base processor board also sends the raw measurement data to an external computer.

Turning now to the user interface board in the angle and positional data received by the base processor is utilized by applications executing on the display processor to provide an autonomous metrology system within the AACMM . Applications may be executed on the display processor to support functions such as but not limited to measurement of features guidance and training graphics remote diagnostics temperature corrections control of various operational features connection to various networks and display of measured objects. Along with the display processor and a liquid crystal display LCD e.g. a touch screen LCD user interface the user interface board includes several interface options including a secure digital SD card interface a memory a USB Host interface a diagnostic port a camera port an audio video interface a dial up cell modem and a global positioning system GPS port .

The electronic data processing system shown in also includes a base power board with an environmental recorder for recording environmental data. The base power board also provides power to the electronic data processing system using an AC DC converter and a battery charger control . The base power board communicates with the base processor board using inter integrated circuit I2C serial single ended bus as well as via a DMA serial peripheral interface DSPI . The base power board is connected to a tilt sensor and radio frequency identification RFID module via an input output I O expansion function implemented in the base power board .

Though shown as separate components in other embodiments all or a subset of the components may be physically located in different locations and or functions combined in different manners than that shown in . For example in one embodiment the base processor board and the user interface board are combined into one physical board.

If the operator selects Mount on a mount stability diagnostic test is executed using for example input from the tilt sensor or other on board level and from an operator. In an embodiment the AACMM is mounted to a surface e.g. a table a machining center a wall a floor using the mounting device . The operator applies pressure to the mounting device in an attempt to move the AACMM . In an embodiment the tilt sensor inclinometer indicates e.g. via text graphics color any movement of the mounting device to the operator via the color LCD or other display device. In another embodiment the operator looks at an indicator on the tilt sensor e.g. a bubble to determine movement. In another embodiment the operator moves the arm segments in a prescribed motion and observes the change in the readings of the tilt sensor in response. In a properly mounted AACMM the changes in the readings of the tilt sensor are expected to be small. The mount stability diagnostic test described herein also referred to herein as an inclinometer stability test is facilitated by logic e.g. software hardware located on the electronic circuit of the AACMM .

In another embodiment the measurement device on the AACMM is held steady in a nest while the pressure is being applied to the mounting device . In an embodiment the nest for the measurement device e.g. the probe can be mounted at a location. The location of the nest does not change once it is mounted at a location. A first data point is calculated based on position signals from the transducers received prior to the pressure being applied and a second data point is calculated based on position signals received after the pressure has been applied. If the difference in the readings of the first data point and the second data point are close enough within a programmable threshold difference then the mount is determined to be stable. If the first data point and the second data point are outside of the programmable threshold difference then the mount is determined to be not stable. If the mount is stable then the operator may proceed to measure data points with the AACMM . If the mount is not stable then the electronic circuit may output an error message. The error message may be indicated for example on the built in display screen such as the LCD or a light on the AACMM .

If the operator selects Temperature on a temperature stability diagnostic test is executed using input from temperature sensors e.g. temperature sensors located on the AACMM . In an embodiment logic located on the electronic circuit of the AACMM monitors the temperature sensors and outputs the temperatures indicated by the temperature sensors to a display device for operator viewing. Once the temperatures have stabilized for a programmable period of time the AACMM is considered to be in a stable state and the operator may proceed to measure data points with the AACMM . If the temperatures are not stable within the programmable period of time then the electronic circuit may output an error message. The error message may be indicated to the operator via a light on the AACMM and or via the display device on the AACMM . In an embodiment the temperature stability test is initiated automatically when the AACMM is powered on.

In an embodiment the AACMM is not considered to be stable until two or more diagnostic tests are performed and both indicate a stable state. In an embodiment there are two primary diagnostic tests temperature stability e.g. is the arm warmed up and mounting stability e.g. are the arm and work surface physically stable relative to the part to be measured . In an embodiment there is a level indicator e.g. a bubble level a tilt sensor that can be used to determine if the work surface is level however the work surface being level is not critical to AACMM accuracy. In an embodiment the arm diagnostic tests are performed by software code that takes advantage of sensors and data that AACMM provides.

The SPAT may be performed as a diagnostic or calibration procedure . As a diagnostic procedure the SPAT may provide pass fail information indicating whether the AACMM is operating within the manufacturer s specifications. As a calibration procedure the AACMM may provide details on the performance of the SPAT or it may change a parameter in response to the SPAT results.

The operator may choose via the user interface screen of to perform a hard probe calibration. Such a calibration includes placing the hard probe in a nest that constrains the center of the AACMM probe tip to a single point in space. The operator moves the arm segments in a prescribed pattern as indicated by a figure on the built in display e.g. LCD . As the probe tip is moved the user interface may progress to new patterns of movement. When enough information has been collected the user interface program will indicate whether the probe calibration has been successful and other details may also be given. The purpose of the hard probe calibration is to provide information on the position of the probe tip relative to the AACMM to which it is attached.

The user may elect to calibrate a laser line probe LLP . Such a calibration may involve a variety of steps such as sweeping a stripe of laser light from the LLP across a flat surface. The display e.g. LCD may provide guidance in the measurements to be made. After the user performs the indicated actions the user interface screen may indicate whether the calibration has been successful and it may also provide other details such as error values.

The user may elect to perform a quick or field arm compensation labeled arm compensation in . This type of compensation is performed following relatively quick procedures by the operator. Such procedures may include performing a SPAT test measuring an artifact having a known distance or performing some other type of measurement. The user interface screen may provide guidance to the operator in performing the quick compensation procedure. When the procedure is completed the display may indicate whether the procedure was successful or unsuccessful. It may ask permission to install new parameters into the AACMM or it may automatically install new parameters. The objective of this procedure is to improve articulated arm accuracy.

A calibration process which may be performed in accordance with an embodiment is shown in . The test procedure shown in starts at block with providing an AACMM that includes a manually positionable articulated arm portion having opposed first and second ends the arm portion including a plurality of connected arm segments each of the arm segments including at least one position transducer for producing position signals.

At block a measurement device attached to the first end of the AACMM is provided. Such a measurement device might be a hard probe a touch trigger probe or an LLP for example.

At block an electronic circuit e.g. electronic data processing system that includes a processor is provided. The electronic circuit is configured to receive the position signals from the transducers and to provide data corresponding to a position of the measurement device. The electronic circuit has a self contained operating environment for the AACMM and the self contained operating environment includes a user interface application. In addition to the usual function of collecting transducer data and converting this data to three dimensional coordinates a processor within the electronic circuit also provides a self contained operating environment i.e. an operating system that supports a user interface program. The user interface program provides the user interface screens shown in . The user interface program may also carry out other functions related to the built in display and it may carry out calculations related to the functions performed when the user presses selected icons on the user interface screens.

At block a display device in communication with the user interface program is provided. The display device may be LCD supported by display processor . It is a built in display that is an integral part of the AACMM . Because the operating environment that supports that user interface program is self contained the AACMM may be used without attaching the AACMM to an external computer thereby simplifying setup and performance of measurements in many cases.

At block a plurality of choices are displayed on the display device with at least one of the choices being to perform a diagnostic or calibration procedure for the AACMM . Typically the choices will be presented in the form of icons as depicted in .

At block an operator selects one of the diagnostic or calibration procedures. Not every selection presented on one of the user interface screens of will necessarily contain all of the steps shown in the flow diagram of . For example the icon on labeled System Info provides information to the operator but does not require that the operator perform a procedure according to a prescribed sequence of steps.

At block information for performing the procedure is displayed on the display device. In some cases the information may be presented in the form of illustrations either static or dynamic illustrations indicating the actions to be taken by the operator. In other cases the information may be in the form of a text description.

At block the operator performs the selected diagnostic or calibration procedure. In some cases feedback on the display may be presented to the user indicating whether the actions being taken are those desired. For example in the probe calibration of the single point articulation test the program may monitor the angles of the joints within the arm and provide an indication of whether the correct movements are being performed. Other feedback such as audio feedback beeps voice messages and the like may be used to supplement feedback provided on the display.

At block the results of the selected diagnostic or calibration procedure are displayed on the display device. In some cases the results may be in the form of a pass fail message indicating whether in the case of a diagnostic procedure the AACMM is performing as expected or whether in the case of a compensation procedure the new compensation parameters were successfully found and installed. In other cases the results may include more detailed information such as the observed errors. It may also include an inquiry in which the operator is asked for example whether calculated parameters should be installed.

Advantages of performing the diagnostics and or calibration solely on the AACMM without requiring a personal computer PC to calculate coordinate data e.g. x y z data from position signals include no extra equipment to carry or place in a work area no wires or wireless interface to a PC required no PC to buy damage or lose and no issues with hardware and software compatibility because the software system is integrated with the hardware. Additional advantages include the ability to perform quick measurements in the middle of a lengthy measurement session on a PC without interrupting work flow or losing data the systems operate independently a means to quickly validate measurements taken on PC based software a faster simpler user interface UI for quick measurements that are not possible on a PC based system and access to arm sensor data through a direct hardware interface which is not possible with a PC. Further advantages include control of wireless interface options through a direct hardware interface which is not possible via wireless remote devices i.e. a PC cannot change arm Wi Fi settings while communicating via Wi Fi .

The user interface screens shown and described herein are examples of high level screens that are used by an exemplary embodiment. Other screens different content additional content presented in a different order including additional sub screens may be implemented by exemplary embodiments. In addition the terms screen and sub screen are intended to cover any method of providing the data such as but not limited to pop up menus and selection lists.

Technical effects and benefits include having a self contained portable AACMM that does not require a connection to an external computer for calculating position data from the raw measurement data collected by the AACMM . In addition an external computer is not required for providing a user interface application to allow the operator to give instructions to the AACMM . A benefit is that a single device the stand alone portable AACMM is all that is required to collect and report on measurement data. An additional benefit is that the AACMM is only required to support one operating system operating system level i.e. the one that is being used by the self contained operating environment . In addition troubleshooting is easier because the entire environment is known and there is no variation in operation due to different operating environments e.g. different operating systems software etc. installed on the external computers .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that may contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that may direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration may be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While the invention has been described with reference to example embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

