---

title: Electrical switch device with automatic dimming control
abstract: The electrical switch device can includes a method and dimmer determination device that automatically determining a dimmer level for an electronic device. A signal is received and, when coupled with the time of day and the ambient light level, an appropriate algorithm can be selected. The output of the algorithm provides the dimmer level, which is sent to a controller for output to the electrical device. Based on user feedback, the algorithms and thresholds used to determine the dimmer level can be adjusted, created, and deleted to provide a more accurate dimming level in the future.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08963434&OS=08963434&RS=08963434
owner: Cooper Technologies Company
number: 08963434
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
The present disclosure relates generally to a light control device and more particularly to a dimmer determination device used to automatically control lighting fan and or other electrical functions that can have variable outputs.

When a dimmer switch is connected to an electrical device often a light source the output of the electrical device can be changed by changing the setting of the dimmer switch. Oftentimes a desired output of the electrical device and thus a corresponding setting of the dimming switch controlling the electrical device varies based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the time of day and the amount of ambient light in the room or space in which the electrical device is located.

When the dimmer switch is turned on the electrical device receives an amount of power that corresponds to the setting of the dimmer switch. At times the setting of the dimmer switch is adjusted by a user after the user turns on the dimmer switch because the output of the electrical device is not at a desired level. For example when a light source is turned off the previous evening after the sun has set the setting of the dimmer switch may have been high so that the light source gave off more light. When the light source is turned on the following day after the sun has risen the setting of the dimmer switch may have to be lowered because the amount of light given off by the light source the previous evening is more than what a user desires.

In general in one aspect the disclosure relates to a method for determining a dimmer level for an electrical device. The method can include receiving an activation signal and determining in response to receiving the activation signal a time of day and an ambient light level. The method can further include generating based on the time of day and the ambient light level and using a hardware processor a first dimmer level. The method can also include sending to a controller the first dimmer level where the controller sends an amount of power to the electrical device based on the first dimmer level.

In another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a dimmer determination device. The dimmer determination device can include a storage repository that stores a number of events. The dimmer determination device can also include memory positioned within the cavity where the memory stores a number of instructions. The dimmer determination device can further include an ambient light sensor and a timer that tracks time. The dimmer determination device can also include a hardware processor for executing the instructions stored in the memory. The dimmer determination device can further include a dimmer determination engine operatively coupled to the hardware processor the storage repository the memory the ambient light sensor and the timer where the dimmer determination engine sends a number of dimming signals generated using the events to a dimming controller.

In yet another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to an electrical switch device. The electrical switch device can include a housing having a number of walls forming a cavity. The electrical switch device can also include a dimmer switch disposed on one of the walls and operatively coupled to an electrical device. The electrical switch device can further include a controller operatively coupled to the dimmer switch and positioned inside the cavity. The electrical switch device can also include a dimmer determination device operatively coupled to the controller and positioned inside the cavity. The dimmer determination device of the electrical switch device can include a storage repository that stores a number of events and memory positioned within the cavity where the memory stores a number of instructions. The dimmer determination device can also include an ambient light sensor and a timer that tracks time. The dimmer determination device can further include a hardware processor for executing the instructions stored in the memory. The dimmer determination device can also include a dimmer determination engine operatively coupled to the hardware processor the storage repository the memory the ambient light sensor and the timer where the dimmer determination engine sends a number of dimming signals generated using the events to the controller where the controller uses the dimming signals to determine an amount of power to send to the electrical device.

In still another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a computer readable medium that includes computer readable program code embodied therein for performing a method for controlling an electrical device. The method can include receiving an activation signal and determining in response to receiving the activation signal a time of day and an ambient light level. The method can also include generating based on the time of day and the ambient light level a dimmer level. The method can further include sending to a control device the dimmer level where the control device sends an amount of power to the electrical device based on the dimmer level.

These and other aspects objects features and embodiments will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments of an automatic switch device with automatic dimming control also simply called a device and or an electrical switch device herein will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency. In the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the disclosure herein. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the exemplary embodiments herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

The electrical switch device with automatic dimming control described herein can include one or more of a number of different types of electric switching devices that control an amount of power delivered to an electrical device in addition to full on and full off. For example an electrical switch device with automatic dimming control can be a light dimmer a fan control switch a thermostat e.g. for adjusting the output of a heating unit and or an air conditioning unit some other suitable device or any combination thereof. An electrical switch device can be in wall i.e. mounted in an aperture in a surface such as a wall or a ceiling stand alone or be used in any other type of setting.

If the electrical switch device is used in an in wall application then the electrical switch device described herein can at least in part be mechanically coupled to a wall by being mounted within and or behind the wall. As defined herein a wall is any type of building material e.g. drywall ceiling tiles brick plywood wall studs cement cinder blocks that is used to create a surface e.g. wall ceiling floor that defines a structure or a space e.g. room duct within a structure. A wall can also include some other object e.g. a mounting plate a junction box adjacent to building material. The surface can be located within the structure or outside the structure. The surface can be in an open area or in an enclosed area.

In one or more exemplary embodiments an electrical switch device is used with a single gang junction box. In such a case exemplary embodiments of an electrical switch device typically meet the standards of a National Electrical Manufacturer s Association NEMA 1 enclosure. Alternatively exemplary electrical switch device described herein can also be used with multiple e.g. two three four gang junction boxes. In such a case exemplary embodiments of an electrical switch device typically meet the standards set by NEMA and or any other appropriate standard setting entity for such an enclosure.

References made herein to a dimmer level refers to an amount of power e.g. voltage current delivered to an electrical device. In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer level is expressed in terms that are relative to the full amount of power that can be delivered to an electrical device. For example a dimmer level can be zero designating that no power is delivered to the electrical device one designating that the full amount of power that can be received by the electrical device is delivered to the electrical device or any number in between 0 and 1 for a proportionate amount of power delivered to the electrical device . The dimmer level can be expressed in one or more of a number of ways including but not limited to a percentage e.g. 50 a fraction e.g. and a decimal number e.g. 0.25 .

Referring to the exemplary power supply is one or more sources of energy e.g. electricity used to provide power and or control to the electrical switch device and at times the one or more electrical devices through the electrical switch device . The power supply typically provides electricity that is in alternating current AC format and or direct current DC format. The power supply can be physically separate from the electrical switch device as with 120 VAC household wiring that is connected to the electrical switch device and or internal within the electrical switch device as with the battery .

The amount of voltage delivered by the power supply to the electrical switch device can be any amount suitable to operate the elements of the electrical switch device . In certain exemplary embodiments the voltage delivered by the power supply is transformed rectified inverted and or otherwise manipulated at the power supply and or within the electrical switch device so that the various components of the electrical switch device receive a proper voltage and or current level to operate properly.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device controls one or more electrical devices . For example the electrical switch device receives an interaction e.g. a manual manipulation of the dimmer switch from the user and in response generates and sends one or more instructions based on the interaction received from the user . In addition or in the alternative the electrical switch device can receive information from one or more electrical devices the dimmer determination device and or the controller or portions thereof . In response in such a case the electrical switch device generates and sends one or more instructions based on the interaction received from the one or more electrical devices the dimmer determination device and or the controller .

One or more of a number of components e.g. the controller the hardware processor the memory the dimmer switch the storage repository of the electrical switch device are used to perform the various functions of the electrical switch device . Such components can be discrete components part of a semiconductor and or part of a software based control circuit.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device or more specifically the controller and or the dimmer determination device is implemented according to a client server topology. The electrical switch device can correspond to enterprise software running on one or more servers and in some embodiments can be implemented as a peer to peer system or resident upon a single computing system. In additional exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device is accessible from other machines using one or more application programming interfaces and or user interfaces not shown . In one or more exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device is accessible over a network connection not shown such as the Internet by one or more users e.g. user data source image capture device . Further information and or instructions received and or generated by the electrical switch device can also be stored and accessed over the network connection.

Alternatively or additionally in one or more exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device is a local computer system of the user . In such embodiments the electrical switch device can optionally not be implemented using a client server topology. For example the electrical switch device can correspond to a portable computer mobile device another type of computing device and or combination of multiple computing devices. Additionally or alternatively the electrical switch device can be a distributed computer system and or multi processor computer system that includes multiple distinct computing devices.

In certain exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device is coupled to an outlet box as can be used for example by a wall mounted light switch. The electrical switch device can be wireless detachable and or portable. In exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device operates as a remote control device. In such a case the device includes one or more components e.g. transceiver configured to allow signals to be sent and or received wirelessly. Further in such a case the electrical switch device can be made of two or more components that are detachable removable from attachable to each other.

The detachable components of the electrical switch device can detach attach using one or more of a number of fastening mechanisms including but not limited to a spring catch and release a snap a slotted receiver mating threads and a clamp. When a portion of the electrical switch device is detached the detached components can communicate with each other as long as such components remain within a certain distance of each other. Such a distance can depend on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the wireless technology being used.

In certain exemplary embodiments the electrical switch device includes a housing on and or inside of which one or more components e.g. controller hardware processor timer of the electrical switch device are located. Alternatively one or more components of the electrical switch device can be located outside of the housing but operatively coupled using wired and or wireless technology to one or more other components of the electrical switch device that are located inside of the housing . For example the dimmer determination device can be remotely located outside the housing but operatively coupled to the housing and or its components. The housing can be made of one or more of a number of suitable materials including but not limited to plastic metal glass nylon and rubber.

The housing can include one or more of a number of components including but not limited to a wall plate and a mounting strap. The housing and its components are discussed below in more detail with respect to . The components positioned inside of or on a surface of the housing can vary based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the size of the housing and the electrical devices that are being controlled by the electrical switch device .

Continuing with reference to the exemplary electrical switch device is configured to receive instructions from the user as to an amount of power to be delivered to each electrical device at a given point in time. More specifically the controller of the electrical switch device receives an activation deactivation signal e.g. the user turning on off the dimmer switch sends such signal to the dimmer determination device receiving a dimmer level from the dimmer determination device and delivering an amount of power to the electrical device based on the dimmer level.

In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine is communicably coupled to the controller . The dimmer determination engine of the dimmer determination device receives an activation deactivation signal from the controller determines the time that such signal is received determines an amount of ambient light when such signal is received stores such information in the storage repository uses the stored information and an algorithm to generate a dimmer level for an electrical device stores the dimmer level for the electrical device in the storage repository and sends the dimmer signal to the controller all in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments. The dimmer determination engine can also perform other functions as described below.

In certain exemplary embodiments the optional bypass switch of the electrical switch device is communicably coupled to the hardware processor and or a separate hardware processor of the controller . The bypass switch is enabled when a particular setting on the bypass switch is received. The bypass switch has an enabled state on and a disabled state off . The bypass switch when in the enabled state allows the dimmer determination engine to communicate with the controller . When in the disabled state the bypass switch prevents the dimmer determination engine from communicating with e.g. sending a dimmer level the controller .

As a specific example the bypass switch when enabled allows the dimmer determination engine to send a dimmer level signal to the controller where the dimmer level is zero i.e. the dimmer level is a signal for the controller to turn off the electrical device . As another specific example the bypass switch when enabled prevents the dimmer determination engine from sending a dimmer level to the controller . For instance if the dimmer determination engine based on the current time and ambient light level the prior dimming events and the appropriate algorithm determines that the dimmer level should be 50 rather than the current 20 for an electrical device the signal for the dimmer level to increase the dimmer level would not be sent by the dimmer determination engine to the controller .

In certain exemplary embodiments the bypass switch when enabled prevents the dimmer determination engine from sending one or more types of dimmer levels to the controller. For example when the bypass switch is enabled the dimmer determination engine may only be prevented from sending a dimmer level of zero to the controller while all other dimmer levels generated by the dimmer determination engine continue to be sent to the controller . In addition or in the alternative the bypass switch can affect the operation of one or more other components of the dimmer determination device including but not limited to the hardware processor the timer and the sensor .

When the controller controls more than one electrical device the bypass switch can also include one or more features that allow a user to select which of the electrical devices are controlled by the controller using the dimmer levels generated by the dimmer determination engine when the bypass switch is in the enabled state. For example the bypass switch can have a number of two pole dual in line package DIP switches where each DIP switch corresponds to one of the electrical devices . As another example the user can select certain electrical devices on an application interface which serves as a virtual bypass switch . In certain exemplary embodiments instructions delivered by the user to the controller and or the dimmer determination engine when the bypass switch is in the enabled state supersede instructions delivered by the hardware processor and or the dimmer determination engine to the controller .

The exemplary bypass switch can be any type of switch. For example the bypass switch can be a physical switch that is manually manipulated e.g. enabled by a user at the housing . An example of a physical switch is a DIP switch. As another example the bypass switch can be a pushbutton that toggles between the enabled state and the disabled state each time that the pushbutton is depressed. In the case where the bypass switch is a pushbutton the pushbutton can toggle in one or more of a number of ways. For example the pushbutton can be depressed past a certain point to lock the pushbutton in place in the enabled state and subsequently pushed again later in time past the certain point to unlock from the enabled state to toggle to the disabled state. As another example the pushbutton can be depressed past a certain point and held in that position for some period of time e.g. three seconds to change states from enabled to disabled or from disabled to enabled.

In certain exemplary embodiments the bypass switch can be combined with some other switch pushbutton or other feature on the outer surface of or inside of the housing . For example if a sliding dimmer switch is disposed on the front surface of the housing the slider can be depressed for four seconds to toggle the bypass switch between the enabled state and the disabled state.

Alternatively or in addition the bypass switch can be program instructions e.g. software firmware that are hardcoded and or adjustable. The program instructions can be adjustable automatically manually and or based on the occurrence of certain conditions. Such program instructions can reside on and or be executed by the hardware processor . The bypass switch is typically located within the housing or disposed on an outer surface e.g. face plate of the housing but the bypass switch can also be located remotely from the housing and communicably coupled to the electrical switch device .

In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer switch of the electrical switch device is communicably coupled to the controller and or the dimmer determination engine . Specifically the dimmer switch can send a signal to the controller and or the dimmer determination engine to turn the electrical device on and or off. The dimmer switch is enabled turned on when a particular setting e.g. on off a dimmer level on the dimmer switch is received from a user .

The dimmer switch can be any type of switch having any of a number of settings. Examples of a dimmer switch can include a bipolar switch having two settings e.g. on and off a multi pole switch having more than three settings e.g. high low medium and off and a sliding switch having a number of discrete or continuous settings as with a dimmer . The dimmer switch can have more than one capability. For example a single light switch can turn a light on off adjust the light using a dimmer turn a ceiling fan on off and adjust a speed of the ceiling fan.

The dimmer switch can override the bypass switch . For example when the bypass switch is in the enabled state and the dimmer switch is in the off position if the dimmer switch is turned on then the electrical device is turned on at a certain dimmer level set by the user using the dimmer switch . Such can be the case even if dimming events and the algorithms for the electrical device dictate that the electrical device should be dimmed at a different level than what was set by the user . As another example when the bypass switch is in the enabled state and the dimmer switch is in the off position dimming events and the algorithms dictate that the electrical device should remain off. If the user then turns on the dimmer switch then the electrical device is turned on.

In other words in certain exemplary embodiments changing a position of the dimmer switch can toggle the bypass switch from the enabled state to the disabled state. Alternatively changing the setting of the dimmer switch while the bypass switch is in the enabled state can keep the bypass switch in the enabled state but allow the new setting of the dimmer switch to determine the output to the electrical device until the algorithm for the subsequent time of day as determined by the timer and the ambient light level as determined by the sensor dictates that the hardware processor using the dimmer determination engine changes the state of the electrical device .

The exemplary dimmer switch can be any type of switch. For example the dimmer switch can be a physical switch that is manually manipulated e.g. enabled by a user at the housing . An example of a physical switch is a DIP switch. As another example the dimmer switch can be a pushbutton that toggles between on and off each time that the pushbutton is depressed. Alternatively or in addition the dimmer switch can be program instructions e.g. software firmware that are hardcoded and or adjustable. The program instructions can be adjustable automatically manually and or based on the occurrence of certain conditions. Such program instructions can reside on and or be executed by the hardware processor . The dimmer switch is typically disposed on an outer surface e.g. face plate of the housing but the dimmer switch can also be located remotely from the housing and communicably coupled to the electrical switch device .

In one exemplary embodiment the dimmer determination engine of the dimmer determination device is configured to send information e.g. dimmer level dimming event off event instructions signals to and or retrieve information e.g. time of day ambient light level data interactions from the controller memory the timer the sensor the storage repository the hardware processor the bypass switch the security module any other components of the electrical switch device the power supply the user and or the electrical devices . Specifically in certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine is configured to receive an interaction also called a signal originated by the user from the bypass switch and or the dimmer switch . The interaction received by the dimmer determination engine from the bypass switch and or the dimmer switch can be of any suitable form including but not limited to a pressure pulse an electrical signal and a digital code.

The exemplary dimmer determination engine can receive one or more of a number of signals. For example the dimmer determination engine can receive an activation signal from the controller . An activation signal designates that the dimmer switch is being turned on and that a dimmer level needs to be generated by the dimmer determination engine . An activation signal is generally initiated by the user e.g. turning on the dimmer switch and generated by the controller for the dimmer determination engine .

Another example of a signal that can be received by the dimmer determination engine is a termination signal also called a deactivation signal . A deactivation signal designates that the dimmer switch is being turned off and that a dimmer level needs to be set to zero. In some cases the deactivation signal is generated by the dimmer determination engine as when the dimmer determination engine determines using an algorithm that the electrical device should be turned off . At other times a deactivation signal is initiated by the user e.g. turning off the dimmer switch and generated by the controller for the dimmer determination engine .

Yet another example of a signal that can be received by the dimmer determination engine is an adjusted dimmer level signal. An adjusted dimmer level signal designates that the dimmer level is being changed. In some cases the adjusted dimmer level signal is generated by the dimmer determination engine as when an algorithm is modified by the dimmer determination engine generating a different dimmer level for a certain time of day and a certain ambient light level . At other times an adjusted dimmer level signal is initiated by the user e.g. adjusting the dimmer setting on the dimmer switch and generated by the controller for the dimmer determination engine .

In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine is further configured to access add to and or manipulate the off events the dimming events thresholds and or the algorithms stored in the storage repository for the one or more electrical devices . For example when the dimmer determination engine receives an activation signal e.g. the dimmer switch is turned on from the dimmer switch and or the controller the dimmer determination engine records a dimming event including the time of day measured by the timer and the ambient light level measured by the sensor in the storage repository .

Subsequently when the dimmer determination device receives a signal based on instructions stored in memory the dimmer determination engine receives and interprets the current time of day and the current ambient light level. The dimmer determination engine then selects an appropriate algorithm based in part on the current time of day and calculates using one or more dimming events stored in the storage repository an appropriate dimmer level for an electrical device . The dimmer determination engine also sends the calculated dimmer level to the controller which uses the dimmer level to send a corresponding amount of power to the electrical device .

In addition the dimmer determination engine can compare one or more measurements e.g. ambient light level time with a threshold to determine whether the threshold has been exceeded. In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine is communicably coupled to the controller using hard wires and or using wireless technology. The dimmer determination engine can be embodied in one or more of a number of forms including but not limited to a microcontroller a programmable logic controller and a programmable gate array.

Examples of controlling an electrical device by the controller using the dimmer level generated by the dimmer determination engine include but are not limited to sending voltage and or current to turn on the electrical device stopping voltage and or current to turn off the electrical device adjusting voltage and or current to as with a dimmer selection to adjust an amount of output for the electrical device e.g. light fixture ceiling fan and flipping a switch to change a mode of operation e.g. changing the direction of a ceiling fan for the electrical device . In certain exemplary embodiments the controller controls each electrical device using hard wires and or using wireless technology. The controller can be embodied in one or more of a number of forms including but not limited to a microcontroller a programmable logic controller and a programmable gate array.

In exemplary embodiments the one or more electrical devices are any type of light fixture e.g. a table lamp a ceiling light a wall light a night light . An electrical device can also include devices that can be integrated with a light including but not limited to a ceiling fan with or without an attached light . An electrical device can also include other devices that control an electrical load. For example an electrical device can include a thermostat. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that an electrical device can also be associated with other electrical devices e.g. television stereo speakers that can be controlled directly or indirectly by an electrical switch device . For example exemplary embodiments can be used to control a downstream receptacle in which one or more electrical appliances are connected. Each electrical device can be configured to communicate with the controller using wired and or wireless technology.

The user interacts with the electrical switch device . Specifically the user sends commands to the electrical switch device by for example moving a dimmer switch on the electrical switch device from one position to a different position turning a light switch on the electrical switch device on or off and toggling the bypass switch between the enabled state and the disabled state.

The user is capable of interacting with the electrical switch device using one or more of a number of touching instruments including but not limited to a finger a stylus a cursor of a mouse and a key on a keypad. The user is capable of interacting with the electrical switch device in person e.g. physically touching the bypass switch on or inside the housing with a finger or virtually e.g. touching a portion of a graphical user interface GUI on an application of a computing device which virtually changes a state of the bypass switch . The user can be a homeowner a business owner a tenant a landlord an agent an administrator an energy manager a consultant a representative of the owner or some other entity that manages one or more electrical devices controlled by the electrical switch device .

In one or more exemplary embodiments the user uses a user system that operates using user software. The exemplary user system is or can contain a form of an Internet based or an intranet based computer system that is capable of communicating with the user software. A user system can include any type of computing device and or communication device including but not limited to the electrical switch device . Examples of the user system include but are not limited to a laptop computer with Internet or intranet access a smart phone a server a server farm and a personal digital assistant PDA . In certain exemplary embodiments the user system corresponds to a computer system as described below with regard to .

The user software can execute on the electrical switch device and or a separate device e.g. a server mainframe desktop personal computer PC laptop personal desktop assistant PDA television cable box satellite box kiosk telephone mobile phone or other computing devices from the electrical switch device . In certain exemplary embodiments the device on which the user software executes is coupled by a network e.g. Internet intranet extranet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or other network communication methods with wired and or wireless segments. The user software can also be part of or operate separately from but in conjunction with the electrical switch device .

The exemplary storage repository is a persistent storage device or set of devices that stores software and data used to control one or more electrical devices . The storage repository can store any type of suitable data associated with the electrical devices including but not limited to times of day ambient light levels and formulas. Examples of a storage repository include but are not limited to a database or a number of databases a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof.

The storage repository can be located on multiple physical machines each storing all or a portion of the usage information times of day ambient light levels formulas and or any other suitable information. Each storage unit or device can be physically located in the same or different geographic location which can be within or outside of the housing of the electrical switch device .

In certain exemplary embodiments the storage repository stores the dimming events and off events collectively called events of an electrical device . The dimming events and off events track the usage of a particular electrical device controlled by the controller using a dimmer level generated by the dimmer determination engine and or dimmer switch . A dimming event is a record that captures at least an ambient light level as measured by the sensor a time of day as measured by the timer and a dimmer level either as generated by the dimmer determination device or as set by the user on the dimmer switch for each electrical device . An off event is a record that captures at least an ambient light level as measured by the sensor and a time of day as measured by the timer when the dimmer level as set to zero either as generated by the dimmer determination device or as set by the user turning off the dimmer switch for each electrical device .

The storage repository can also store one or more algorithms used by the hardware processor which are used by the dimmer determination engine to determine a dimmer level. Each algorithm can be based on a recent number of records in the dimming events and or the off events e.g. a simple average of the ten most recent dimming events for an electrical device based on the time of day e.g. determining a dimmer level for a signal e.g. activation signal adjusted dimmer level signal received at 2 00 p.m. uses a different algorithm than the algorithm used for a signal received at 2 00 a.m. based on the electrical device for which the signal is associated based one or more other factors or any combination thereof. In certain exemplary embodiments the hardware processor generates and or modifies an algorithm based on adjusted dimmer level signals and or other input received from the user . An algorithm can also be used to establish and or adjust a threshold .

The storage repository can also store one or more thresholds used by the hardware processor which are used by the dimmer determination engine to determine whether a dimmer level should be changed. Examples of such thresholds can include but are not limited to a maximum run time threshold the maximum continuous amount of time that an electrical device should be on a maximum ambient light level threshold an amount of ambient light that is so high as to warrant turning off the electrical device and a minimum change threshold a minimum amount of change in the ambient light level . A threshold can be set by default set and or adjusted by a user set and or adjusted for example based on certain algorithms by the dimmer determination engine using one or more algorithms set and or adjusted by some other suitable component or any combination thereof.

The exemplary hardware processor within the housing of the electrical switch device is configured to execute software in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments. Specifically the hardware processor is configured to execute the instructions used to operate the electrical switch device including any of its components described above and shown in as well as software used by the user and or the one or more electrical devices . The exemplary hardware processor is an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor. The hardware processor can be known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microcontroller a microprocessor and a multi core processor.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the hardware processor is configured to execute software instructions stored in memory . The exemplary memory can include one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. In certain exemplary embodiments the memory is discretely located within the device relative to the hardware processor . In certain configurations the memory can also be integrated with the hardware processor . The dimmer determination engine and or the hardware processor can be integrated into one or more mixed signal integrated circuits. In such a case the profile and or cost of the dimmer determination engine and or hardware processor can be reduced.

Optionally in one or more exemplary embodiments the security module is configured to secure interactions between the electrical switch device and the user and or the electrical devices . More specifically the exemplary security module is configured to authenticate communication from software based on security keys verifying the identity of the source of the communication. For example user software can be associated with a security key enabling the user to interact with the electrical switch device . Further the security module can be configured to restrict interactions the interactive templates displayed on the GUI electrical devices that can be accessed and or controlled and or transmission of information e.g. operating status of a light or fan as well as access to other information. For example the user can be restricted to only select an enabled state of the bypass switch for only certain electrical devices associated with and or approved for that specific user .

The timer is operatively coupled to the dimmer determination engine . The timer can be located within the housing of the electrical switch device . Alternatively the timer can be located remotely from the housing . The timer can be a physical device a circuit that includes one or more of a number of discrete components e.g. resistor capacitor an integrated circuit software as executed by the hardware processor for example or any suitable combination thereof.

In exemplary embodiments a timer of the dimmer determination device is configured to keep clock time and calendar time. The timer can in certain exemplary embodiments track one or more periods of time e.g. track a running operating time for an electrical device at a particular dimmer level track an amount of time that an electrical device has been on . If so configured the timer is configured to track one or more times at a single time. The exemplary timer can also be configured to communicate times as well as receive instructions to start tracking a time period from the dimmer determination engine . For example the timer is configured to notify the dimmer determination engine of the time when the dimmer determination engine sends a dimmer level to the controller to turn on or off an electrical device . As another example the timer can be configured to measure a period of time from when the dimmer determination engine sends a dimmer level to when the dimmer determination engine sends a subsequent dimmer level. The timer can track time in meridians a.m. p.m. and or in military time.

The timer can also track calendar time and geographic considerations. For example the timer can track the day month and year in addition to the specific time of day. As another example the timer can track and account for time zones and daylight savings time. The timer can track such elements of time based on default settings based on inputs from a user based on relevant information received from a third party e.g. when such information is downloaded from a manufacturer or obtained over the Internet based on some other source or any combination thereof. The timer can perpetually track time regardless of whether an electrical device is on or off. Any time measured by the timer can be sent as a signal to the dimmer determination engine .

The battery of the dimmer determination device can be used to provide power to one or more components of the dimmer determination device when power from the power supply ceases. For example if power provided from the power supply is cut off or otherwise interrupted the battery can provide power to the timer until the power from the power supply resumes. In such a case the clock time kept by the timer continues using the battery rather than being reset when the power from the power supply resumes.

The battery can provide any voltage e.g. 3V 9V 12V and or current and have any size suitable for providing power to the one or more components of the dimmer determination device and or being positioned within the housing . The battery can be replaceable or non replaceable. In certain exemplary embodiments the battery is rechargeable. For example the battery can be recharged as with a trickle charge by the power provided from the power supply when the battery is not needed or used.

In certain exemplary embodiments the sensor detects ambient light. Specifically the sensor measures the amount of ambient light that exists in a space at a point in time. A sensor can be integrated with the housing or remotely located from the housing . There can be multiple sensors that are communicably coupled to a dimmer determination device . A space can be any area that in which an electrical device is located. The space can be within a structure e.g. building office garage or outside of a structure.

Each exemplary sensor can be communicably coupled to the dimmer determination engine . When the sensor is integrated with the housing the sensor can be located within and or on an outer surface of the housing of the electrical switch device . The sensor can be a physical device a circuit that includes one or more of a number of discrete components e.g. resistor capacitor an integrated circuit software as executed by the hardware processor for example or any suitable combination thereof. The sensor can operate continuously continuously measure the ambient light level and send measurements of the ambient light level to the dimmer determination engine on a random basis at the instruction of the dimmer determination engine on the occurrence of an event e.g. passage of time based on some other components and or factor or any combination thereof.

The sensor can be a separate stand alone component of the dimmer determination device . Alternatively the sensor can be combined with some other component or device. For example the sensor can be positioned on a separate electrical switch device that is communicably coupled with the dimmer determination device . As another example the sensor can be integrated with the slider on a sliding dimmer switch on the front surface of the housing of the electrical switch device .

In certain exemplary embodiments the sensor uses one or more types of sensing technology to detect and measure the ambient light level. A sensor can operate continuously on a random basis on a periodic basis when called upon by the dimmer determination engine or any suitable combination thereof. Regardless of the sensing technology used by a sensor the sensor can operate in a certain manner e.g. send a signal describing the ambient light level to the dimmer determination engine cease sending a signal describing the ambient light level to the dimmer determination engine based on one or more conditions associated with ambient light levels. For example the sensor can send a signal to the dimmer determination engine when the sensor detects a change e.g. within a threshold range in the ambient light level. As another example the sensor sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine when the sensor receives a request from the dimmer determination engine for the ambient light level.

The signals sent by the sensor to the dimmer determination engine can be in any format recognized by the dimmer determination engine . Further the measurement of ambient light level made by the sensor can be provided in one or more of a number of units. Examples of such units can include but are not limited to lumens a percentage with respect to for example a fixed number or a maximum target threshold of lumens for a given time of day footcandles candelas and lux.

Referring now to A and B the exemplary electrical switch device includes a wall plate having one larger aperture through which the on off switch traverses a second smaller aperture through which the sliding dimmer switch traverses and a third smallest aperture through which the sensor protrudes. In this example the on off switch is a two pole switch that toggles between settings by applying pressure on a protruding top end . In such a case when the protruding top end is depressed the bottom end which is hingedly coupled to the top end around a horizontal axis protrudes.

The dimmer switch shown in can be a sliding dimmer switch that has a number of non discrete dimmer settings. To adjust the dimmer level on the dimmer switch the user moves the slide along the channel . When the slide is at the bottom of the channel as shown in the dimmer setting is at the lowest dimmer level. When the slide is at the top of the channel the dimmer setting is at the highest dimmer level. When the user positions the slide at any other point along the channel the dimmer setting is set proportionately to the distance e.g. as a percentage from the top end of the channel .

The wall plate can couple to the housing hidden from view behind the wall plate in one or more of a number of ways including but not limited to an interlocking snap and a fastening device e.g. a screw . In one or more exemplary embodiments the dimensions of the wall plate can be any suitable length width and or height. For example the dimensions of the wall plate for a single gang outlet box can be approximately 4 inches high and 2 inches wide. The wall plate can also be oversized relative to a single gang combination device.

The apertures in the wall plate through which the on off switch and or the dimmer switch protrude can be any suitable size e.g. width height thickness shape to allow a user to interact with e.g. provide manual adjustment access to the settings of the on off switch and or the dimmer switch . For example the aperture in the wall plate can be approximately the same size as the protruding portion of the on off switch to secure the on off switch . In certain exemplary embodiments the apertures in the wall plate are at least as large as the top portion of the on off switch and the top portion of the dimmer switch respectively.

The front panel of the wall plate the portions of the wall plate between the aperture through which the on off switch protrudes and the outer edges of the wall plate can be of sufficient height width to secure for example by extending over a least a portion of the on off switch to the rest of the housing of the electrical switch device . The wall plate can be made of one or more of a number of suitable materials including but not limited to metal and plastic.

The wall plate of also includes an aperture through which a sensor protrudes. The sensor can detect a level of ambient light and or other elements e.g. motion . In addition the bypass switch detail shown in is accessible by removing the wall plate from the housing . In certain exemplary embodiments when the wall plate the sensor and the on off switch and or the dimmer switch are removable the assembly of the wall plate the sensor and the on off switch and or the dimmer switch is called a faceplate.

In addition a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that additional steps not shown in can be included in performing this method. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps should not be construed as limiting the scope. In addition a particular computing device as described for example in below can be used to perform one or more of the steps for the method described below.

Now referring to the exemplary method begins at the START step and proceeds to step where an activation signal is received. In one or more exemplary embodiments the activation signal is received by the dimmer determination engine of the dimmer determination device . The activation signal can be received from the controller of the electrical switch device . The activation signal can be initiated by a user by turning on a dimmer switch . The activation signal is associated with an electrical device .

In step the time of day and the ambient light level is determined. In exemplary embodiments the time of day is measured by the timer and the ambient light level is measured by the sensor . Once the time of day is measured by the timer the timer sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine so that the dimmer determination engine can determine using the signal the time of day. Likewise once the ambient light level is measured by the sensor the sensor sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine so that the dimmer determination engine can determine using the signal the ambient light level. The time of day is measured at substantially the same time with only a slight delay as when the activation signal is received by the dimmer determination engine . The ambient light level is measured in a location approximately where the electrical device is located.

In step a dimmer level is generated. The dimmer level can be generated based on the time of day and the ambient light level. In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer level is generated by the dimmer determination engine . The dimmer determination engine can use one or more algorithms stored in the storage repository to generate the dimmer level. The dimmer determination engine can also use one or more dimming events that have substantially similar times of day and or ambient light levels compared to the time of day and ambient light level of the current instance. For example the dimmer level can be generated by selecting a previous dimmer level that was used based on a previous time of day and a previous ambient light level where the previous time of day is substantially close to the time of day and or where the previous ambient light level is substantially close to the ambient light level.

The dimmer level can be generated using an algorithm that uses the time of day and or the ambient light level as inputs to the algorithm where the algorithm can use at least one formula. For a given electrical device different algorithms can be used based on the time of day and or the ambient light level. For example if the time of day is 4 00 a.m. the algorithm for an electrical device can be a simple average of the last five dimmer levels. On the other hand if the time of day is 8 00 p.m. the algorithm for the electrical device can be a weighted average where a 60 weight is given to the most recent dimmer level and a 40 average is given to the simple average of the ten dimmer levels immediately preceding the most recent dimmer level.

In step the dimmer level is sent to the controller . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer level is sent to the controller by the dimmer determination engine . When the controller receives the dimmer level the controller sends an amount of power to the electrical device where the amount of power is based on the dimmer level. For example if the electrical device is a 10 W light source and if the dimmer level is 50 the controller sends 5 W of power to the electrical device .

In step the time of day and the ambient light level are stored in the storage repository as a dimming event . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimming event includes the dimmer level that was sent to the controller . The dimming events can be organized in one or more of a number of ways in the storage repository . For example a dimming event can be organized by the dimmer level by the time of day which includes the date by the ambient light level by some other suitable factor or by any combination thereof.

In step a determination is made as to whether an adjusted dimmer signal is received. In certain exemplary embodiments an adjusted dimmer signal corresponds to a new dimmer setting on the dimmer switch . The adjusted dimmer signal can be originated by one or more of a number of components including but not limited to the user and the sensor . In the case of a user generating the adjusted dimmer signal the user selects the adjusted dimmer signal in response to the dimmer level generated by the dimmer determination device .

In other words the adjusted dimmer signal corresponds to a change to the dimmer level for the electrical device . For example if the amount of power delivered to the electrical device by the controller in response to the dimmer level is too low e.g. when the electrical device is a light source that is not bright enough for the user the user will increase the dimmer setting on the dimmer switch to make the light source brighter. The dimmer setting set by the user is the adjusted dimmer signal. The adjusted dimmer signal can be sent by the controller and received by the dimmer determination engine .

In the case of the sensor generating the adjusted dimmer signal the sensor either randomly based on an instruction from the user and or based on the occurrence of some event e.g. passage of time measures the ambient light level and sends a signal of the new ambient light level to the dimmer determination device . When the signal for the new ambient light level is received from the sensor the dimmer determination engine determines the new ambient light level and compares it with the ambient light level determined in step above called an original ambient light level . If the difference between the new ambient light level and the original ambient light level exceeds a minimum change threshold as stored as a threshold in the storage repository then the new ambient light level generates the adjusted dimmer signal. If the difference between the new ambient light level and the original ambient light level does not exceed a minimum change threshold then no adjusted dimmer signal is generated.

Regardless of the source of the adjusted dimmer signal the dimmer determination engine determines whether the adjusted dimmer signal is received. If an adjusted dimmer signal is received then the process proceeds to step . If an adjusted dimmer signal is not received then the process proceeds to step .

In step a new time and new ambient light level is determined when the adjusted dimmer signal is received. Depending on the delay between when the dimmer level is sent and when the adjusted dimmer signal is received the new time and or the new ambient light level can be substantially the same as the time and or ambient light level of step . In exemplary embodiments the new time of day is measured by the timer and the new ambient light level is measured by the sensor .

Once the new time of day is measured by the timer the timer sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine so that the dimmer determination engine can determine using the signal the new time of day. Likewise once the new ambient light level is measured by the sensor the sensor sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine so that the dimmer determination engine can determine using the signal the new ambient light level. If the adjusted dimmer signal originates from a change in ambient light level then the new ambient light level is already received. The new time of day is measured at substantially the same time with only a slight delay as when the adjusted dimmer signal is received by the dimmer determination engine . The new ambient light level is measured in a location approximately where the electrical device is located.

In step an adjusted dimmer level is determined. The adjusted dimmer level can be generated based on the new time of day and or the new ambient light level. In certain exemplary embodiments the adjusted dimmer level is generated by the dimmer determination engine . If the adjusted dimmer signal is generated by the user adjusting a dimmer setting on the dimmer switch then the dimmer determination engine can set the adjusted dimmer level directly from the adjusted dimmer signal without using an algorithm . Alternatively in such a case the dimmer determination engine can use an algorithm stored in the storage repository to determine the adjusted dimmer level.

If the adjusted dimmer signal is generated by the sensor the dimmer determination engine can use one or more algorithms stored in the storage repository to generate the dimmer level. The algorithm used by the dimmer determination engine can be the same or different algorithms compared to those used in step above. The dimmer determination engine can also use one or more dimming events that have substantially similar times of day and or ambient light levels compared to the new time of day and new ambient light level of the current instance. The adjusted dimmer level can be generated using an algorithm that uses the new time of day and or the new ambient light level as inputs to the algorithm where the algorithm can use at least one formula. For a given electrical device different algorithms can be used based on the new time of day and or the new ambient light level.

In step the adjusted dimmer level is sent to the controller . In certain exemplary embodiments the adjusted dimmer level is sent to the controller by the dimmer determination engine . When the controller receives the adjusted dimmer level the controller sends an amount of power to the electrical device where the amount of power is based on the adjusted dimmer level.

In step the new time of day the new ambient light level and the adjusted dimmer level is stored in the storage repository as a dimming event . The new time of day the new ambient light level and the adjusted dimmer level can be stored by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimming event further includes the source of the adjusted dimmer signal and if applicable the difference between the new ambient light level and the original ambient light level.

In step a determination is made as to whether a deactivation signal has been received. The deactivation signal is when the dimmer switch is turned off. In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine determines whether a deactivation signal has been received. The deactivation signal can be originated by a user e.g. manually enabling the off switch on the dimmer switch by the dimmer determination engine e.g. if the sensor measures the ambient light level which is determined by the dimmer determination engine to be so high as to exceed a maximum ambient light level threshold stored as a threshold in the storage repository some other suitable component or any combination thereof. If a deactivation signal has been received the process proceeds to step . If a deactivation signal not has been received the process proceeds to step .

In step the time of day and the ambient light level when the deactivation signal is received is determined. The dimmer determination engine can determine the time of day and the ambient light level. In certain exemplary embodiments the time of day is measured by the timer and the ambient light level is measured by the sensor . Once the time of day is measured by the timer the timer sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine so that the dimmer determination engine can determine using the signal the time of day. Likewise once the ambient light level is measured by the sensor the sensor sends a signal to the dimmer determination engine so that the dimmer determination engine can determine using the signal the ambient light level. The time of day is measured at substantially the same time with only a slight delay as when the deactivation signal is received by the dimmer determination engine . The ambient light level is measured in a location approximately where the electrical device is located.

In step a dimmer level is determined. In this case the dimmer level is set to zero. The dimmer level can be determined by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine does not use an algorithm to determine the dimmer level.

In step the dimmer level is sent to the controller . The dimmer level can be sent by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer level is sent to the controller by the dimmer determination engine . When the controller receives the dimmer level the controller stops sending power to the electrical device because the dimmer level is zero.

In step the time of day and the ambient light level is stored as an off event in the storage repository . The time of day and the ambient light level can be stored by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the off event further includes the source of the deactivation signal. After step is complete the process then continues to the END step.

In step a determination is made as to whether a maximum run time threshold stored as a threshold in the storage repository has been exceeded. In other words a determination is made as to whether the electrical device has been on for an excessive amount of time. In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine determines whether the maximum run time threshold has been exceeded. The determination is based on a run time reading kept by the timer and sent to the dimmer determination engine . The dimmer determination engine then compares the run time reading received from the timer and compares the run time reading with the maximum run time threshold. If the maximum run time threshold has been exceeded then the process proceeds to step . If the maximum run time threshold has not been exceeded then the process reverts to step .

In step a determination is made as to whether the bypass switch is enabled. In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine determines whether the bypass switch is enabled. If the bypass switch is enabled then the process reverts to step . If the bypass switch is not enabled then the process proceeds to step .

In step a dimmer level of zero is generated. The dimmer level can be determined by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine does not use an algorithm to determine the dimmer level. In step the dimmer level of zero is sent to the controller . The dimmer level can be sent by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the dimmer level is sent to the controller by the dimmer determination engine . When the controller receives the dimmer level the controller stops sending power to the electrical device because the dimmer level is zero.

In step the time of day and the ambient light level is stored as an off event in the storage repository . The time of day and the ambient light level can be stored by the dimmer determination engine . In certain exemplary embodiments the off event further includes the run time of the electrical device . After step is complete the process then continues to the END step.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the dimmer determination engine uses the timer to monitor an amount of time between when the dimmer determination engine sends a dimmer level to the controller and when the user initiates a signal that is sent by the controller to the dimmer determination engine . In such a case the dimmer determination engine can make adjustments to one or more algorithms and or one or more thresholds . For example if the dimmer determination engine sends a dimmer level of zero for an electrical device to the controller based on the maximum run time threshold of 2 hours as measured by the timer being exceeded and if the user turns on the dimmer switch for the electrical device 30 seconds thereafter the dimmer determination engine can increase the maximum run time threshold. The amount that the maximum run time threshold for the electrical device is increased by the dimmer determination device can depend on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the time of day the ambient light level the electrical device and the amount of time between sending the dimmer level and receiving a signal corresponding to an action initiated by the user .

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component can include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component can include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more I O devices allow a customer utility or other user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the customer utility or other user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include but are not limited to a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone and a scanner. Examples of output devices include but are not limited to a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer and a network card.

Various techniques can be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques can be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available non transitory medium or non transitory media that can be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media .

 Computer storage media and computer readable medium include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to computer recordable media such as RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

The computer device can be connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means can take other forms now known or later developed. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer device can be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further one or more exemplary embodiments can be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. controller dimmer determination engine can be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node can correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node can alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources.

The following description in conjunction with describes an example in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments. The example is for explanatory purposes only and is not intended to limit the scope. Terminology used in can be used in the example without further reference to those figures.

Referring to consider the following example of a system using an exemplary dimmer determination device to determine a dimmer level for an electrical device as described above. As shown in a user interacts with the dimmer switch by turning on the dimmer switch . At this time the electrical device a light source in this example corresponding to the dimmer switch is off . Once the dimmer switch is turned on the dimmer switch sends a signal to the controller of the electrical switch device to turn on the electrical device . When the controller receives the signal from the dimmer switch the controller sends an activation signal to the dimmer determination engine .

Shortly e.g. within a few cycles of receiving the activation signal from the controller the dimmer determination engine receives a signal representing the ambient light level from the sensor and a signal representing the time of day from the timer . The signals received by the dimmer determination engine can be initiated based on one or more of a number of factors and or events. For example the dimmer determination engine can receive the signal representing the ambient light level from the sensor and the signal representing the time of day from the timer based on a specific request generated in response to receiving the activation signal from the controller sent to the sensor and the timer . Alternatively the sensor and or the timer can continually or on a periodic e.g. every second basis send the signals to the dimmer determination engine .

The dimmer determination engine then determines the time of day based on the signal representing the time of day and the ambient light level based on the signal representing the ambient light level. In this example the time of day is 8 18 p.m. on Thursday Aug. 9 2012 and the ambient light level is 200 lumens.

Once the dimmer determination engine receives the activation signal and the has determined the time of day and the ambient light level the dimmer determination engine selects the proper algorithm for determining the dimmer level. The dimmer determination engine sends a signal to the storage repository to retrieve the proper algorithm . To select the proper algorithm several filters must be traversed. Initially the proper categories must be selected for the time of day. An initial category is for the month of the year and so the option for August is selected. Next a category exists for the day of the week and so the option for Thursday is selected. From there a time of day category is selected. The following tables list the various time of day category options for this particular electrical device 

Option 5 is selected from the table above based on the time of day. Then an appropriate algorithm is selected based on the ambient light level of 200 lumens. The table below shows the various algorithm category options.

In the table above the constants e.g. 0.5 0.3 are weighting factors Dis the most recent dimmer level when the ambient light level is within the range of lumens Dis the second most recent dimmer level when the ambient light level is within the range of lumens and Dis the third most recent dimmer level when the ambient light level is within the range of lumens. Based on the ambient light level in this example the algorithm to use is 0.5 D 0.3 D 0.2 D.

Over time and with additional input from the user the dimmer determination engine can adjust the constants as well as the number of previous dimmer levels. In addition the dimmer determination engine can alter the range of lumens and or add delete categories of ranges of lumens. For example while the table above shows algorithms for 4 ranges of lumens the dimmer determination engine can change the ranges of lumens and add a fifth algorithm. If there are not enough historical dimmer levels for a given time of day and ambient light level then a default value as set for example by the manufacturer or the user can be used until enough dimmer levels have been recorded in the storage device .

The historical dimming levels are also stored in the storage repository as part of dimming events . The dimmer determination engine retrieves these historical dimmer levels as D 75 D 65 and D 68 . With this information the dimmer determination engine uses the historical dimmer levels in the algorithm to determine that the dimmer level in this case is 70.6 . The dimmer determination engine then sends a record of the dimming event which includes the time of day the ambient light level and the dimmer level for storage in the storage repository .

In addition the dimmer determination engine sends a signal representing the dimmer level of 70.6 to the controller . With the signal representing the dimmer level of 70.6 the controller sends an amount of power approximately equal to 70.6 of full power to the electrical device . As a result the electrical device goes from being off to being turned on and illuminating at approximately 70.6 of full output.

Continuing with after some period of time e.g. a few seconds a few hours the user determines that the output of the electrical device needs to be adjusted and so changes the dimmer setting on the dimmer switch . In this case the user adjusts the dimmer setting of the dimmer switch about five seconds after the electrical device is turned on and the amount of power approximately equal to 70.6 of full power is delivered by the controller to the electrical device . Specifically the user moves the dimmer setting on the dimmer switch to approximately 80 of full output.

When the dimmer switch receives the adjusted dimmer setting the dimmer switch sends a signal to the controller to adjust in this case increase the amount of power delivered to the electrical device . When the controller receives the signal from the dimmer switch the controller sends an adjusted dimmer signal to the dimmer determination engine .

Shortly e.g. within a few cycles of receiving the adjusted dimmer signal from the controller the dimmer determination engine receives a signal representing the ambient light level from the sensor and a signal representing the time of day from the timer . The dimmer determination engine then determines the time of day based on the signal representing the time of day and the ambient light level based on the signal representing the ambient light level. In this example the time of day is still 8 18 p.m. on Thursday Aug. 9 2012 and the ambient light level is still 200 lumens.

With this information received by the dimmer determination device a few events occur. First the dimmer determination device sends a signal representing the dimmer level of 80 to the controller . With the signal representing the dimmer level of 80 the controller sends an amount of power approximately equal to 80 of full power to the electrical device . As a result the electrical device goes from being illuminated at approximately 70.6 of full output to being illuminated at approximately 80 of full output. Although not shown in this example the dimmer determination engine can use an algorithm stored in the storage repository to generate the signal sent to the controller .

Second the dimmer determination engine sends a record of the dimming event which includes the time of day the ambient light level the source here the user adjusting the dimmer setting on the dimmer switch of the adjusted dimmer signal and the dimmer level for storage in the storage repository . Using the information in the record of the dimming event the dimmer determination engine can modify add and or delete one or more algorithms and or one or more thresholds .

Continuing with after some further period of time the electronic device continues to be illuminated at 80 of full output. In this example the period of time if approximately five hours. At this point the dimmer determination engine receives a signal representing the ambient light level from the sensor and a signal representing the time of day from the timer . The dimmer determination engine then determines the time of day based on the signal representing the time of day and the ambient light level based on the signal representing the ambient light level. In this example the time of day is 1 18 p.m. on Wednesday Aug. 10 2012 and the ambient light level is zero lumens.

In receiving the signal representing the time of day the dimmer determination engine calculates that the electronic device has been on continuously for five hours. The dimmer determination engine sends a request to storage repository to retrieve a maximum run time threshold from the thresholds stored in the storage repository . In response the storage repository sends a response to the dimmer determination engine where the response includes the maximum run time threshold for the electronic device . In certain exemplary embodiments there can be multiple maximum run time thresholds for the electronic device where each of the maximum run time thresholds varies based on one or more of a number of factors including but not limited to the time of day e.g. month of year day of week clock time of day the particular electrical device the ambient light level and time since most recent user input with the dimmer switch and or the controller .

In this example the response sent by the storage repository tells the dimmer determination engine that the maximum run time threshold is 5 hours. Thus the dimmer determination engine determines that the maximum run time threshold has been exceeded. The dimmer determination engine then determines the state of the bypass switch not shown . In this example bypass switch is disabled which means that the dimmer determination engine can turn off an electronic device whose continuous time on exceeds the maximum run time threshold.

Consequently with this information received by the dimmer determination device a few events occur. First the dimmer determination device sends a signal representing the dimmer level of zero also called an end dimmer level to the controller . With the signal representing the dimmer level of zero the controller stops sending power no power to the electrical device . As a result the electrical device goes from being illuminated at approximately 80 of full output to being turned off .

Second the dimmer determination engine sends a record of the off event which includes the time of day the ambient light level the source here exceeding the maximum run time threshold of the adjusted dimmer signal the continuous run time of the electrical device and the dimmer level for storage in the storage repository . Using the information in the record of the off event the dimmer determination engine can modify add and or delete one or more algorithms and or one or more thresholds .

Exemplary embodiments described herein are directed to an electrical switch device with automatic dimming control. Using exemplary embodiments a wide array of functionality e.g. controlling monitoring with regard to one or more electrical devices is achieved in a space. Exemplary embodiments automatically determine a dimmer level of an electronic device by making adjustments to the software installed within such devices based on input received from a user.

In one or more exemplary embodiments multiple electrical devices e.g. lighting fixture ceiling fan can be controlled using a single exemplary electrical switch device. The use of a simple bypass switch increases the ease for the user to enable and disable some or all of the functionality of the exemplary electrical switch device.

Because of the ease with which a dimming level of one or more lighting devices is automatically determined the user expends less energy in manually adjusting the dimmer setting of a dimmer switch. In addition if a user forgets to turn off an electrical device exemplary embodiments automatically turn off the electrical device when the electrical device has been left on continuously for a period of time.

Although embodiments described herein are made with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications are well within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the exemplary embodiments described herein are not limited to any specifically discussed application and that the embodiments described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. From the description of the exemplary embodiments equivalents of the elements shown therein will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and ways of constructing other embodiments using the present disclosure will suggest themselves to practitioners of the art. Therefore the scope of the present invention is not limited herein.

